

1 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
SOVIETS OPEN LINE FOR LITHUANIA OIL TO HELP END CRISIS

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 30

 BODY:
The Soviet Union reopened the oil pipeline to rebellious Lithuania today to begin fulfilling its part of a compromise to end the impasse on the republic's move for independence.
The resumption of oil supplies began less than a day after the Parliament in Vilnius voted to suspend its March 11 declaration of independence for 100 days in exchange for Moscow's agreement to negotiate on the issue and to lift economic sanctions.
The accord relaxed a grave sovereignty challenge to the Government of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 
No Comment From Moscow
After months of confrontation, the end of the embargo was announced in a brief telephone call to Vilnius from the Ministry of Petroleum and Gas Industry in Moscow and then in an engineer's telegram to Lithuania's refinery in Mazeikiai. 
There was no immediate comment from Moscow on the resumption of oil supplies nor any further word from Vilnius on other supplies. Those involved mainly raw materials for industry. [President Bush, told of the Lithuanian developments while playing golf near his vacation home in Kennebunkport, Me., said, ''I am very encouraged by that, very.''] Something for Both Sides Moscow and Vilnius reached the compromise after a 16-week standoff in which Lithuania managed to withstand an array of economic sanctions.
Tens of thousands of workers were laid off and numerous factories were closed. But the determination for independence did not wane and the Lithuanians coped by relying on black-market oil supplies and local farm produce.
In the standoff, President Gorbachev had to endure the Lithuanian rebellion as the cutting edge of a wave of separatist politics sweeping the the Soviet Union and shadowing his busy agenda in world affairs.
In the compromise, Mr. Gorbachev achieved the moratorium he sought on the overall declaration of independence, while the Lithuanian Government could tell its predominantly pro-independence people that a series of laws enacted since independence declaration remained in effect.
These include measures laying claim to federal property in the republic, sparing Lithuanian men from the Soviet military draft and setting citizenship conditions that alarmed Russians who live in Lithuania.
The Soviet leader's strategy fluctuated from outright denunciation of the declaration of independence as an unconstitutional affront, dramatic midnight tank movements through the streets of Vilnius and rough arrests of Lithhuanian soldiers who deserted and of draft resisters.
 
Gorbachev Invited a Solution
Mr. Gorbachev's tone has eased recently and he invited conciliation, saying that with the rebellion on hold negotiations might lead toward a revised, more liberal Soviet Union.
He has been promising a less monolithic union along with decentralized authority in an attempt to deal with the separatist movements that dog his attempts to rouse the nation to economic and political reform.
This union is supposed to offer a liberalized option of secession to the republics, but only after years of negotiations and subject to the Soviet Parliament's final decision.
Lithuania, however, has insisted throughout that there is no option of drawn-out secession to be considered because Lithuania and the two other Baltic republics, Estonia and Latvia, lost their independence 50 years ago in forced annexation. Tacit Backing From U.S. The United States and other Western nations complained for years about the annexation until Mr. Gorbachev's disarmament initiatives and worldwide popularity left most important critics, including the Bush Administration, tacitly backing his approach to the crisis.
The 100-day time limit on Lithuania's independence moratorium is to begin with the start of negotiations. The moratorium on the independence declaration would end automatically if negotiations were broken off or if ''certain circumstances or events'' prevented the Lithuanian leadership from carrying out its duties.
 
An Allusion to Use of Force
The latter was an allusion to Lithuanian concern that the Kremlin might ultimately resort to force to keep the republic in the union.
The Lithuanian Parliament voted to enact the moratorium after a personal appeal from President Vytautas Landsbergis, one of the most respected founders of the independence movement in the republic of nearly four million people.
He had been particularly critical of the Kremlin's earlier dismissal of Vilnius's appeal for negotiations, and his blessing of the moratorium weighed considerably in the vote - 69 in favor, 35 opposed and two abstentions.
The proposal produced bitter divisions in Parliament, and a small crowd of demonstrators gathered outside to denounce the resolution as a sellout.
Mr. Landsbergis said that the moratorium would be in keeping with Lithuania's peaceful approach to regaining independence and that the compromise would include guarantees against the Kremlin's resorting to legal maneuvering or the use of force during talks.
 
Many Complex Issues
Beyond the basic issue of independence itself, which remains unsettled, the talks, if they proceeded successfully, would have to touch on many complex details involved in the republic's breakaway attempt, including property confiscation and compensation.
The talks will be closely watched by other republics, including Latvia and Estonia, which have chosen more gradual moves toward independence.
The technicalities of starting up the Lithuanian refinery are expected to mean a period of up to two weeks before the plant is again operating at full capacity. The refinery, which receives oil from Polotsk, in Russia, produces more than 10 million tons of petroleum products a year.
The republic requires only about three million tons, meaning that the embargo was costly as well to the Soviet Government, which had to press other sources to meet its regional commitments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: SOVIET PARLIAMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA (USSR)

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LEGISLATURES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT, MILITARY SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); GOLF (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



2 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: NEW PERU LEADER IN ACCORD ON DEBT

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 30

 BODY:
Peru's President-elect, Alberto Fujimori, has reached a tentative agreement with the International Monetary Fund and other development agencies on a plan to stabilize his country's tottering economy, resume payment on at least some of its external debts and reintegrate Peru into the international financial system.
The agreement was hammered out here on Friday in a series of meetings between Mr. Fujimori and the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus; the president of the World Bank, Barber B. Conable, and the president of the Inter-American Development Bank, Enrique Iglesias. The meetings were organized by the Secretary General of the United Nations, Javier Perez de Cuellar, who is Peruvian.
''Peru is going to rejoin the world economy,'' Mr. Fujimori said in an interview afterward. 
 
Repayments Had Been Stopped
During the five-year term of President Alan Garcia, Peru imposed limits on debt repayment, then stopped them altogether. The action was hailed in other debtor nations as a reassertion of sovereignty eroded by the international lending agencies and the biggest commercial banks, but it left Peru cut off from virtually all outside economic assistance as it struggled to deal with a 2,000 percent annual inflation rate, an empty treasury, 60 percent unemployment, a growing leftist insurgency and an increase in the cultivation of coca leaves, the raw material of cocaine. In agreeing to come back to the international fold, Mr. Fujimori removed the most visible symbol of debtor nations' defiance of the international financial community. But the practical effect on other debtor countries is unclear, since the political and economic conditions in each country differ.
Mr. Fujimori's plan includes a 300 percent tax increase and other measures that constitute the kind of drastic changes that the I.M.F. and banks want from Peru and other debtor nations. I.M.F. officials confirmed the outlines of the plan. In Washington, a spokesman said the Treasury Department had not seen enough details of the plan to know whether it would make Peru eligible for write-offs of debt to the United States under a Latin American assistance plan announced by President Bush on Wednesday. In the interview, Mr. Fujimori welcomed Mr. Bush's plan.
Mr. Fujimori, the son of Japanese immigrants, was elected on June 10 over Mario Vargas Llosa, the novelist, who campaigned with a detailed program of economic austerity.
Mr. Fujimori courted the poor peasantry in the countryside and urban slum dwellers who would suffer most under austerity, and refrained from making detailed economic prescriptions. But he said in the campaign that he would seek to resume debt payments, and he made clear in the interview that he is committed to enacting a tough austerity program under I.M.F. supervision after he succeeds Mr. Garcia on July 28, his 52d birthday.
''We will enact a vigorous anti-inflation campaign and program of institutional reforms,'' he said.
The agreement reached Friday seeks both to stabilize Peru's economy and allow the nation to resume borrowing from international development agencies. Peru has been ineligible for assistance from these institutions since 1987 because it cannot repay the roughly $1.7 billion it already owes them. Peru's total external debt, to foreign governments and commercial banks as well as international lending agencies, is estimated at $17 billion.
Mr. Fujimori said the centerpiece of the austerity plan would be a 300 percent rise in taxes, customs revenues and charges for state-owned services, intended to increase the Government's revenues from the current 4 percent of the gross national product to 12 percent.
The principal utilities, such as telephone service, water and electricity, will remain nationalized, he said. But about 250 smaller state-owned companies will be sold to private investors, and utility rates will be raised enough to make these businesses profitable.
Peru's complex system of multiple exchange rates will be abolished, and its currency, the inti, will be given a single, more realistic value against the American dollar, Mr. Fujimori said.
Monetary Fund officials said that once this economic stabilization package has been drawn up and approved by the Fund, the I.M.F. will in effect convert the roughly $800 million Peru owes it into a new loan, giving the nation the right to start borrowing again.
When Peru starts carrying out the plan, Mr. Fujimori said, he will ask Western industrialized nations to form what is called a ''support group'' to lend his Government the money to pay the $650 million it owes the World Bank and the $250 million owed the Inter-American Development Bank.
The President-elect said he had ''no illusions'' about the difficulty of combating the Shining Path guerrilla movement, which has stepped up attacks in recent months.
But he argued that his austerity measures would not strengthen the guerrillas' support among poorer classes, because his best showing in the election came in those regions where Shining Path traditionally gets most of its recruits. ''The mass of the people have shown quite clearly that they prefer me to Shining Path,'' he said.
Nevertheless, Mr. Fujimori may face parliamentary difficulties in winning support for his new economic program because his Change 90 party has only 32 of the legislature's 180 seats. As a result, it will need to form alliances with other parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); TAX INCREASES (68%); TRENDS (65%); COCAINE (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); SLUM DWELLINGS (64%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO; GARCIA, ALAN (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



3 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Democrats Try Not to Gloat And Begin Planning for 1992

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., June 30

 BODY:
Suddenly, Democrats are dusting off their sheet music and learning to sing ''Happy Days Are Here Again.''
They insist they do not want to gloat over President Bush's reversal on tax increases this week. But the change of positions is just one of several developments - economic, cultural and political - that have stirred optimism among party leaders and helped them throw off the funk they have been in since the 1988 Presidential debacle.
Their mood is changing so rapidly that Democrats who gathered here for a summer meeting were talking about something that a few months ago they did not even let themselves think about: a serious challenge to Mr. Bush in 1992.
 
Brave Talk and New Mood
''Bush's vulnerabilities are coming to the forefront,'' said James Ruvolo, the Ohio Democratic chairman, who is president of the Association of Democratic State Chairmen and among those attending the Democratic National Committee's meeting. 
Ronald H. Brown, the national chairman, said, ''We've got a Republican Party that's coming unraveled.''
This is brave talk from a party that keeps losing Presidential elections. But at the heart of the new mood, Democrats say, are several significant changes.
 
Economic Unease Grows
After decades of having the word ''divided'' attached as a permanent modifier to their name, Democrats are watching with pleasure and little apparent sympathy as the Republicans wrestle with issues like abortion, the environment, taxes and even Mr. Bush's Friday veto of a bill requiring job leaves for parents who have sick children.
Public anxiety about the economy, the fundamental domestic issue on which Presidents rise and fall, is increasing, various public opinion polls have shown, as voters worry about regional recessions, tightening credit and the Federal budget deficit. While Democrats still have not repaired the damage Jimmy Carter did to their image as managers of the economy when inflation spiraled out of control in the late 1970's, polls also suggest the voters are having increasing doubts about how well Mr. Bush is doing in this crucial area.
Democrats think they may have finally found a message to win back the middle class: the increasing economic inequality under Republican rule. And they believe they can use the collapse of the savings and loan industry to drive home the point.
 
Finding Cause for Hope
''We have found the one cause for which George Bush is willing to break his 'no new taxes' pledge,'' Mr. Brown said in a speech here today. ''To clean up a mess caused by America's wealthiest people.''
One intriguing example of the new Democratic attitude was a presentation by Paul Tully, political director of the Democratic National Committee. Using color-coded national maps, Mr. Tully sought to show the assembled Democrats that the 1988 Presidential defeat was not as bad as they thought it was.
Sure, he said, the party ran a terrible campaign. But ''even in the middle of all the mistakes,'' he said, there were 324 Congressional districts in which Michael Dukakis in 1988 collected more votes than Walter Mondale had in 1984, while Mr. Bush attracted less support than had Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Tully's point was that winning back the White House ''is not this overwhelming preposterous challenge.''
Unseating an incumbent President remains a daunting challenge, but the notion that the Democrats can at least give Mr. Bush a run is begining to take hold. Until recently the talk in political circles was about how no one, except Jesse Jackson or possibly Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, wanted the 1992 Democratic Presidential nomination.
But now, as if a light had flicked on overhead, Democrats have begun to realize that the current trends, particulalry rising anxiety about the economy, could be the start of the most important political development of the 1990 and 1992 elections. They say that if public opinion, and the economy itself, continue to sour, President Bush will not be the overwhelming figure he has seemed.
Democrats say they are convinced that it was fear of exactly this, a recession in 1992, that caused Mr. Bush to take the political risk of a tax increase now to try to bring down the Federal deficit, and thus interest rates, before his own campaign. If the strategy succeeds, Mr. Bush may have hurt Republicans this year but secured his own re-election by bolstering the econonmy in years to come.
 
Candidates Start Stirring
Democrats have been slow to get their nominating process under way compared with past years, but party insiders say Presidential aspirants are now stirring behind the scenes as they sense the opportunity.
''I'm getting a lot more calls about 1992 than I did a few months ago,'' said Terrence McAuliffe, a Democratic money raiser who worked on the Presidential effort of Representative Richard A. Gephardt in 1988.
Democrats say that two men who had publicly ruled out Presidential bids in 1992, Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey and Mr. Gephardt of Missouri, are prepared to take another look at the question.
Mr. Bradley would wait until after his campaign for re-election to the Senate, and Mr. Gephardt would have to ask his colleagues to free him from the pledge he made not to run when they elected him majority leader.
 
Savings Issue Tactics
One of the party's central themes as its leaders take more aggressive public positions has been the economy in general with particular attention to the failures of savings and loan institutions and the billions they will cost taxpayers.
The Republicans are clearly senstive on the subject. Mary Matalin, their chief of staff, issued a list on Friday of 10 Democratic lawmakers she said were responsible for delaying actions aimed at solving the problem. She said Democrats were faster with their mouths than with their votes.
Asked at a news conference today whether Democrats were not also to blame, Mr. Brown said that voters might have to make decisions about individual Democrats in certain contests but that this was different from the overall policy errors, which he said were the responsibility of two Republican administrations.
Who is to blame is probably less important in the end than whether Democrats succeed in making voters see the savings and loan problems as part of a larger package of economic issues, all tied together by the theme that the prosperity of the 1980's was built on greed, corruption and unfairness. Mr. Brown calls the 1980's ''an extraordinarily unfortunate decade in American politics that has made the rich richer, the poor poorer and that has squeezed the very life out of the middle class.''
While the economy continues to grow slowly, the public mood has clearly shifted in the last two months.
 
Disapproval Has Risen
The latest New York Times-CBS News Poll found that disapproval of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy had risen to the highest point in his Administration. In the poll, conducted by telephone June 5-8, 43 percent of Americans approved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy and 45 disapproved. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
Anxiety was highest among groups, and in regions, that are most strongly Democratic, just as regional downturns have been worst in traditional Democratic strongholds like the Northeast. Mr. Bush can win re-election without those regions or those groups, but crucial swing groups, like independent voters, are also showing increasing uneasiness, the Times-CBS News Poll indicated.
Mr. Bush must hold on to them, and to do that he must hold the economy together. Or as one Republican strategist conceded, if the economy goes south, ''we lose.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We've got a Republican Party that's coming unraveled,'' said Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic national chairman. (The New York Times) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (69%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MUSIC (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGETS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CHILDREN (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



4 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: American Blacks Talk of Change As Main Legacy of Mandela Visit

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 30

 BODY:
With the euphoria of his visit here still dominating her thoughts, Pearl Cleage is thinking about life after Nelson Mandela.
''The danger is we get caught up in it like it's a rock concert, like going to see Prince, where it's wonderful, but three days later you don't think about it anymore,'' said Ms. Cleage, a playwright and artistic director of the Just Us Theater here.
''If we allow that to happen,'' she said, ''it's a travesty. If there's no connection between his struggle and ours, then the whole visit is really not the tribute to his life and work that it needs to be.''
 
A Transforming Event
Like pilgrims contemplating a joyous vision, millions of American blacks are struggling with similar emotions as they try to gauge the long-term effects of Mr. Mandela's visit to the United States. But interviews with black officials, intellectuals and community workers around the nation indicate a widespread belief that the passionate feelings of pride and renewal aroused by Mr. Mandela can have profound consequences for American blacks. 
Mr. Mandela, whose eight-city American visit ended in Oakland today, has been explicit in saying he is in the United States to focus attention on apartheid in South Africa, not on American domestic problems, although today in California he did say he would return to the United States in October to look more closely at the situation of American Indians.
But virtually without exception, blacks interviewed said Mr. Mandela's visit had touched and energized black Americans as much as anything since the height of the civil rights era. And many are already beginning to try to find ways to channel the energies he has aroused.
They cite potential effects like a surge in political activity and voter registration, increasing ties between American blacks and Africa, a renewal of black militancy and a search for new charismatic leadership.
''I think you're going to see a lot of African-Americans break out of the cycle of hopelessness we've had,'' said Benjamin F. Chavis Jr., executive director of the United Church of Christ's Commission for Racial Justice. ''We have a new Jerusalem. When he gets back on the plane to fly back to South Africa, we have to keep that flame alive and thank God Mandela has lit a flame that was extinguished in the 1960's.''
 
Doubts That Will Not Die
For many, however, there are nagging questions about how far the enthusiasm that has greeted Mr. Mandela can carry.
George Gee Jr., executive director of the Vanguard Urban Improvement Association in the Bedford-Stuyvesant area of Brooklyn, said he was still struck by the look of rapture on the faces of teen-agers he took to see Mr. Mandela last week. But Mr. Gee said he could not even guess whether the inspiration that Mr. Mandela provided would win out over the lure of the streets. Similarly, he said he knew that the lost souls of the ghetto would not be saved by a one-day dose of inspiration.
''The drug dealers could care less who comes to town,'' Mr. Gee said. ''The only thing it could do to them is to have some impact on their customers for one day.''
Similarly, Ronald Walters, a Howard University political scientist who has long been an adviser to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, said it was unclear how much of the emotion that Mr. Mandela evoked would last.
''If people have the opportunity to hear him speak every day or every week or every month somewhere in their midst, it is possible that someone like him could generate all sorts of activity,'' Mr. Walters said. ''But given the fact that he's passing through and leaving, it leaves a question mark in my mind if one can sustain that fervor, and if one can't, whether or not one can have political involvement based on it.''
But most others say the visit will have a profound impact on American blacks, in large ways and small.
For instance, Hank Thomas, a former civil rights worker who now owns two McDonald's franchises in Atlanta, is trying to put together a student exchange program that will bring black South African students to colleges in Atlanta. He is confident that companies that were lukewarm to him before Mr. Mandela's visit will now be more receptive.
''I'm sure the doors are going to be cracked open a little bit wider this time,'' Mr. Thomas said.
Mr. Jackson sees Mr. Mandela's visit opening much larger doors, leading to more political activity and a surge in voter registration that could help change Southern politics, immediately affecting races for governor in Georgia and South Carolina and United States senator in North Carolina.
''We're going to begin immediately mobilizing people around the country for voter registration,'' he said. ''The biggest threat Andy Young has in Georgia to his winning the runoff is 500,000 African-Americans unregistered in Georgia. There are 300,000 African-Americans unregistered in North Carolina. If they register, Harvey Gantt will beat Jesse Helms. Same thing with Theo Mitchell running for governor of South Carolina. If Mandela can give an entire life for the right to vote and then not have it, those of us who have it must exercise it.''
Similarly, Representative Kweisi Mfume, Democrat of Maryland, said he thought Mr. Mandela's visit would enhance the chances of Congress's passing legislation that addresses minority problems.
Several of those interviewed said the visit might have its most telling effect on black leadership in the United States and would create an avenue for new figures to rise to prominence..
''Nelson Mandela's visit has shown the hunger for leadership of integrity and dignity and humility in black America,'' said Cornel West, a religion professor and director of the African-American studies program at Princeton University. ''I was there at Riverside Church. I was there at the Koppel show, and I was there in Harlem. And the hunger in people's eyes for leadership with integrity is profound. And we simply don't have it.''
 
A Paragon of Leadership
It is a measure of how raw that issue is and how much hope has been invested in Mr. Mandela that similar views are offered by blacks at opposing ends of the political spectrum.
Thus, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, who is a persistent critic of black establishment politicians, says that Mr. Mandela's visit ''has set a new standard'' for judging prominent blacks and that those who do not show enough solidarity or seem too prone to influence by whites will be judged harshly.
On the other hand, Bob Woodson, president of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise who is a prominent conservative, said it was Mr. Mandela's ecumenical vision and his generosity of spirit in the face of persecution that contrasted most sharply with much of America's black political leadership.
''I think there was such an outpouring of emotion because there is a quiet kind of yearning on the part of many black Americans to return us to this moral high ground and not use race as an escape from personal responsibility,'' Mr. Woodson said.
But influential blacks like Mr. Jackson and the Rev. Joseph Lowery of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference said Mr. Mandela's long imprisonment, the urgency of the battle against apartheid and the fact that he is a foreigner rather than a domestic figure made such comparisons inappropriate.
''I've never seen the U.S. media give the kind of attention they gave to Mandela to any black man,'' Mr. Lowery said. ''The reason is he's going home. If he were going to set up residence here, the stuff you hear about the violence and the communism and Castro would be magnified a million times because they'd try to cripple him.''
 
Tough Problems to Tackle
Ms. Cleage and others say the problems facing black Americans - from crack to economic despair - are more complex problems to isolate and address than the stark struggle to end apartheid in South Africa. And there are certainly blacks who will not be touched at all by Mr. Mandela's visit. For example, gang members interviewed by reporters in Los Angeles on the day of Mr. Mandela's visit there did not even know who he was.
But nonetheless there is a widespread feeling that the inspiration Mr. Mandela provided has the potential to touch and uplift millions of lives. Admirers say his presence provides both an example of commitment to social change and an eloquent refutation of lingering American stereotypes about Africa and Africans.
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat who is a longtime civil rights leader, said Mr. Mandela's presence could have the same impact on young blacks today that hearing and seeing the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had on his generation 30 years ago.
Leroy Keith, president of Morehouse College in Atlanta, said Mr. Mandela, more than anyone else, could symbolize for his students the need for ''disciplined perseverence and resilience'' in working for social change.
Mr. Chavis said Mr. Mandela ''has given us a vision of what is necessary,'' adding, ''We now have to go about the hard task of rebuilding, reknowing and reconstructing a movement that will produce many Mandelas.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Yorkers at rally for Nelson Mandela at 125th Street and Africa Square in Harlem earlier this month. Many American blacks are trying to gauge the long-term social and political effects of Mr. Mandela's visit to the United States and the inspiration it provided. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: BLACKS (NON-US); BLACKS (IN US) AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (74%); RELIGION (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); POP & ROCK (57%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; MANDELA, NELSON MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



5 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Bumpy Road Ends at Budget for New York City

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Because of a transmission error, an article on Sunday about the negotiations over the New York City budget misidentified a City Council member from Staten Island. He is Alfred C. Cerullo 3d.
After all the wrangling and wangling, the agreement on New York City's $28 billion budget that is to start today came down to twin prerogatives: $40 million in modest new service initiatives for Mayor David N. Dinkins and $40 million in other services saved from cuts by the City Council.
For taxpayers, of course, the new budget will mean more than $800 million in higher charges - the biggest overall annual increase in the city's history - dirtier streets, more unkempt parks and 50 cents for a Staten Island Ferry ride that used to cost a quarter. 
But for the politicians who agreed to the budget - and who waited around City Hall late last night for the printers to finish and give them the chance to pass it - weeks of worry and gallons of coffee went, as they always do, into fighting over far less than 1 percent of the plan. The stakes were high, since it was Mr. Dinkins's first budget as Mayor and the Council's first as the sole approver of appropriations under the new City Charter. Huge revenue shortfalls and a stagnant local economy left each side little room to maneuver.
Perhaps the biggest issue was control. For the Mayor that meant keeping it and for the Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, asserting it. By that standard, both sides could claim some credit. Mr. Dinkins persuaded the Council to pass higher property taxes than they wanted, but they blocked his efforts to raise taxes on dry cleaning and automobile use and other items, and persuaded him to accept a higher personal income tax surcharge than he sought.
Mr. Dinkins got some new programs, mostly for social services, and the Council could take credit for saving from the Mayor's ax some extra police officers, sanitation and parks workers and money for cultural groups.
One of the last sticking points in negotiations Friday centered on the Council's powers to approve spending. In each year's budget, lump discretionary funds are appropriated within city agencies. This year, such funds totaled nearly $1 billion, Council aides said, and they said the Council should not only approve the unrestricted money now but control how it is spent later.
The Dinkins administration contended that that would give the Council the power to appropriate the money twice, and refused to agree. But it did agree to give the Council monthly reports about such transfers, which could provide the Council with ammunition to raise objections in the future.
 
But Not on Weekends
 A funny thing happened on the way to the City Council's approving higher taxes - the law got in the way.
The little-known law - Section 11-220 of the New York City Administrative Code - prohibits the Council from enacting new taxes on Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays.
But the Council refused to let a dusty, seldom-heard-of 22-year-old law stand in its way. With not a word of real debate, the Council yesterday unanimously passed an amendment allowing it just this once to enact taxes on a weekend.
Before the vote, however, there was one more roadblock in the path to higher taxes. New laws require a five-day public notice period, which was impossible in this case since the Council only discovered the provision of the law prohibiting new taxes on Friday. Never fear, the Council and the Dinkins administration agreed to make the amendment retroactive.
 
Some of the Usual Sniping
 Mr. Dinkins and the Council were clearly eager to avoid the bickering that made the state budget seven weeks late this spring. But they could not avoid some of the usual sniping.
On Wednesday, as negotiations began to heat up, Mr. Dinkins flew to Miami to speak to a convention of the American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees, whose New York local is one of his biggest political backers. That led some Council members to complain that he was not minding the store. Others said that the visit of Nelson Mandela had so distracted Mr. Dinkins and his senior aides that few focused on the budget until the last minute.
Late Thursday, Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Vallone met face-to-face, but even on this, their supporters differed. Aides to the Speaker said the Mayor had spent only 20 minutes with him, while aides to Mr. Dinkins said it was at least 45 minutes. In any case, the most intensive talks were carried on by aides.
Mr. Dinkins took note of that as he announced the settlement late Friday night and praised the hard work of First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel.
''I know that he and the excellent members of his team will not be back at their desks on Monday,'' Mr. Dinkins said as the room exploded in laughter. ''I mean, will be back at their desks,'' Mr. Dinkins said, correcting himself. ''I will not be.''
 
A Little More Secrecy
 One consequence of the new personalities negotiating this year's budget, and the new stakes involved, was that the talks seemed to take place a bit more behind closed doors. In past years, the Council shared power to approve the budget with the Board of Estimate, and borough presidents routinely shmoozed in the hallways, adding to the mix of Council members and lobbyists advocating their points.
Without them, the cast was a bit smaller this year, and the Mayor's staff and Council leadership, eager to save face, kept their cards close to the vest. When the Council's 34 Democratic members held a closed-door caucus Tuesday to discuss proposed cuts, the leadership handed out numbered lists to each member.
But when the lists were collected at the end of the session, several were missing. Only then did the leadership decide to release copies of the proposals to the press.
State law allows closed party caucuses, but Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer for the New York Public Interest Group, said the practice is disturbing in the Council, where there is only one Republican, Alfred C. Cerdlo 3d of Staten Island.
''We deplore the spectacle of citizens and public officials waiting outside the Council while nearly its entire membership debates the budget in secret,'' he wrote to Mr. Vallone last week.
 
Big Budget and Big Thirst
 On Friday, as both sides struggled to reach agreement, a notice circulated in City Hall from the Department of General Services advising occupants that the water supply to the building would be shut off yesterday from 7:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. The prospect of an unresolved budget and an unquenched thirst was too much for the negotiators to bear, and it was quickly arranged to keep the water flowing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); CITIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); FERRIES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); HISTORY (55%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S DAVID N DINKINS (93%); 



6 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: In Thicket of Environmental Policy, Bush Uses Balance as His Compass

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 30

 BODY:
President Bush's decisions on knotty environmental problems, like those he made this week on offshore oil drilling and the ancient forests of the Pacific Northwest, show a strong tendency to placate opposing interests and to soften the impact of difficult political calls.
This impulse toward straddling and buying time is typical of Mr. Bush's style on many issues, but on the environment there is a particularly sharp contrast between him and his two immediate predecessors.
President Ronald Reagan consistently and unapologetically championed economic development over environmental concerns. President Jimmy Carter made preservation and anti-pollution efforts a theme of his Administration.
Last Tuesday, Mr. Bush gave one decision to each side. 
His decision to cancel leases for offshore drilling off the coasts of California and Florida was a gesture of concern for the coastal environment that most oil industry spokesmen attacked as a serious mistake. It also gave him time to work out differences between oil and environmental interests and to break a deadlock with Congress that has blocked oil development on large swaths of the outer continental shelf for nearly a decade.
But environmentalists were angered by the President's decision to delay protecting the ancient forests and their northern spotted owls, declared a threatened species by the Government just four days earlier, so as to safeguard logging jobs. The environmentalists complained that the decision ignored a scientific report by Mr. Bush's own Administration and set a dangerous precedent in wildlife protection.
The decision also ran counter to the advice of senior officials in the Agriculture and Interior departments, who had urged adoption of the recommendation in the report, by the Interior Department's Fish and Wildlife Service, that eight million acres of ancient forest be set aside for owl habitat. But the White House decided not to act on the recommendation and to take more time to devise a plan to minimize the loss of jobs.
 
A Tradition of Balancing
This kind of balancing has been characteristic of Mr. Bush's environmental decision-making in his first two years in office. He proposed legislation that would require industries to clean up their airborne emissions, but threatened to veto any bill he thought would cost too much. He promised leadership on the problem of global warming caused by pollution, but then called for more scientific and economic research before making specific policy commitments.
Even his appointments reflect his on-the-one-hand, then-again-on-the-other approach to environmental issues. He named two men popular with environmentalists, William K. Reilly and Michael R. Deland, to head the Environmental Protection Agency and the Council on Environmental Quality. But their initiatives have been restrained by the White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu, and the White House budget director, Richard G. Darman, who generally oppose environmenal actions that might hamper economic growth.
Mr. Bush is probably bound to act as he has on these issues. In his 1988 Presidential campaign, he recognized the political benefits of fighting pollution and protecting natural resources, pledging to become ''the environmental President.'' But as a Republican President with close ties to business, Mr. Bush must frequently make decisions that conflict with environmental goals but accommodate his basic constituency.
 
Buffeted by Cross Pressures
''The problem here,'' said one well-placed Republican political operative from the conservative wing of the party, ''is that Bush constantly gets cross pressures. He knows politically what he must do, and he sets out to do it. Then, whatever he sets out to do usually gets watered down.''
''He knows he should have blocked offshore drilling entirely,'' said this Republican, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''It's what he started out wanting to do. Then all of his oil buddies from Texas start calling, and then Sununu weighs in, and by the time it comes out the other end, it doesn't please anybody.
''The same thing with the spotted owl. He started out wanting to restrict timber work, but then the Republican senators start screaming, and then the White House starts backing off, and the cross pressures build up again.
''What comes out is so much of 'please these people, please those people' that it winds up pleasing no one.''
White House aides take a different view. Both decisions, they noted, came after years of intensive lobbying by economic and environmental interests, heavy maneuvering by Congress and intense activity in the courts.
Roger Porter, assistant to the President for domestic and economic policy, made it clear to both the Agriculture and Interior departments that the President wanted a solution that found a balance between protecting jobs and saving the owl. ''The President genuinely considers himself an environmentalist,'' Mr. Porter said. ''On the other hand, he cares about jobs.''
One Administration official, who insisted on anonymity, also said the White House was guided by concern over the economic implications of enforcing the Endangered Species Act, which requires protection of threatened species regardless of economic consequences. Senior officials in the White House believe that the act was intended to save species from specific local activities like the construction of a dam, not to block economic activity on a regional basis, like blocking logging throughout the Northwest.
On the offshore oil issue, the President came down largely on the side of the environmentalists, the officials said, because he was persuaded that the risk to the environment was high and that the potential for finding large quantities of oil and gas was low.
 
Fewer Headaches on Oil
While neither decision this week pleased any faction completely, the new oil policy is likely to cause fewer political headaches for the President.
It removes from the table for at least a decade an issue that has troubled and divided Republican legislators, particularly since the Exxon Valdez oil spill 15 months ago mobilized public opinion against offshore oil activity. Republican strategists are pleased that their candidates in important races in California and Florida this fall will now be spared a pummeling on the issue of offshore wells.
Representative Leon E. Panetta, a Democrat from California who is a leader in his state's efforts to block offshore oil development that might threaten the environment, said Mr. Bush's decision meant ''that we have a long-term cease-fire instead of having year-to-year battles over temporary delays.''
Mr. Panetta added, however, that the decision was not a permanent solution and that Congress would have to pass legislation codifying the President's decision so that this or other Administrations could not disavow it. Steven Goldstein, a spokesman for Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr., said, however, that such legislation was unnecessary and would be opposed.
 
Jobs vs. Owls
The decision on Northwest forests is likely to generate more difficulty for Mr. Bush than the one on oil. Now that the northern spotted owl has been declared threatened, the White House will have to seek a change in the Endangered Species Act and perhaps other legislation, like the National Forest Planning and Management Act, to avoid complying with the recommendations of the scientific report to save large parts of the ancient forest. That would entail a fight with environmentalists and their allies in Congress.
''I do not think the Administration will find national political support for re-doing the Endangered Species Act,'' said George T. Frampton Jr., president of the Wilderness Society. ''It will not fly on the Hill.''
While consensus building may be the preferred method of making policy in American government, Mr. Bush is obviously discovering that it is difficult to find a middle ground in the uncertain terrain of environmental politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); VETO (79%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); OIL & GAS LEASES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); LAYOFFS (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CARTER, JIMMY RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIMMY CARTER (74%); 



7 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Fund for Tuition Is Proposed

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
As many as nine million Americans at all income levels could pay for college and vocational training by borrowing from the Social Security surplus, under a newly proposed educational loan program.
The proposal, by a group of economists, comes as college tuitions continue to climb, American workers need new skills to compete in a changing economy and Federal loans and grants become harder for both low- and middle-income students to get.
Under the plan, outlined on Thursday in a paper by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, students and workers could borrow up to $40,000 from a revolving loan fund for college and vocational training, paying back the money over 25 years through automatic deductions from their paychecks. The loan fund would draw on the surplus in the Social Security Trust Fund, the money collected from Social Security payroll taxes that is now helping to pay for the Federal budget deficit. 
Barry Bluestone, an economist at the University of Massachusetts who is a co-author of the plan, said it had several advantages over the existing Federal student loan program. Federal loans with subsidized low-interest rates are now restricted to students whose families earn no more than $28,000, a cut-off that excludes many students from middle-income families. Students are also defaulting on the loans at record rates, costing the United States Treasury an estimated $1.5 billion a year.
The new program would be available to students regardless of family income. Repayments would be guaranteed by automatic payroll deductions and would be set as a percentage of future income, giving students the freedom to choose professions like teaching rather than be forced to select high-paying jobs because they are burdened by debt. Interest rates for the loans would be slightly higher than for federally subsidized loans, slightly under 10 percent, but the longer repayment period would counterbalance that, Mr. Bluestone said.
Proposals to borrow from the Social Security surplus, however, are politically volatile. The surplus was created in 1983, when Social Security payroll taxes were increased so that enough money would accumulate to pay benefits for the large baby-boom generation that is expected to retire starting about 20 years from now. This surplus is now used to help cover the budget deficit, with the Government issuing Treasury bonds to pledge that the money it borrows now will be paid back in time.
Mr. Bluestone said using the Social Security surplus to educate and train future workers was a far sounder investment than paying the deficit. He and his co-authors estimated that repayments would make the loan fund fully self-supporting by the year 2039, and that borrowing would never amount to more than 42 percent of the entire Social Security surplus.
Critics, however, say the plan glosses over the fact that the Social Security surplus now pays for Government programs. The proposal would thus mean cutting back spending on those programs or raising new taxes.
''What is the net effect of this?'' said Stuart M. Butler, director of domestic policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization. ''You raise taxes and create a new program. Are we going to raise taxes so that a millionaire's son can go to Harvard?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE; 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; FEDERAL AID (US); SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); BONDS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN BARRY BLUESTONE (77%); 



8 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Brave New World Seen for Robots Appears Stalled by Quirks and Costs

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAMILTON, Ohio

 BODY:
Steve Antenen runs the nation's biggest employment agency for laid-off robots. He has 70 industrial robots for sale on the fringe of this riverside community between Cincinnati and Dayton. All look impeccable, most having worked no more than a few thousand hours before their former owners, some of the nation's leading companies, showed them the door.
It was not supposed to be this way. To labor unions, robots presented the specter of automation in the extreme - motorized androids that would drive real people out of their jobs. To industry, they were expected to be an uncomplaining solution to round-the-clock production.
It turns out that people still work better than robots in many jobs, and where they do not, more mundane forms of automation than robotics work better. 
Robots have found a place in industry, but mostly in arduous, dangerous or monotonous jobs that workers shun anyway, like wielding a 200-pound welder on an automobile assembly line or handling radioactive materials in nuclear reactors. #1 Robot for 500 Workers But the American population of robots is not the hundreds of thousands once predicted but 37,000, or about 1 for every 500 factory workers, according to the Robotic Industries Association, a robot merchants' trade group in Ann Arbor, Mich.
The total includes 200 or 300 that owners have dispatched to used-robot dealers like Mr. Antenen, plus an indeterminate number of graybeards that have been scrapped. Still others have moved on to colleges that teach manufacturing, where, like cadavers in medical schools, they become learning aids.
''Here's an Ultimate Puma 700,'' Mr. Antenen said. ''It was in an electronics plant in Texas. They had it in a lab, perfecting a process to make a certain product. They had a change in plans and decided not to make the product. It has under 1,000 hours of laboratory use. We've brought it in, checked it out and aside from a minor gear adjustment, it's like new. It's going to a school in Arizona.''
''We've even got some brand new ones,'' Mr. Antenen said as he roamed among his idle toilers, a few several times the size of a man, some half the size. Most have a torso but only one limb, an arm with an elbow and a wrist. The wrist is fitted with tools to do a particular job, like drilling holes or welding or putting together parts on an assembly line.
 
Simple and Complicated
Mr. Antenen has some lumbering ''bang-bang'' or ''pick-and-place'' robots, as they are called in the industry, that can do nothing more than lift things, move them a bit and put them down. He has others, their arms guided by sophisticated computers, that can do a variety of tasks and confer, in a way, with fellow robots that work along the same assembly line. He said that in a clean working environment, they need about the same care as other machines - periodic oiling, adjustments, occasional replacement of tired parts - to run for 10 or 15 years.
The average price of a new robot is about $70,000. The oldest and simplest of the robots in Mr. Antenen's warehouses can be had at fire-sale prices - $5,000 or $10,000 - and the best for $40,000. Twenty brainier new ones, the International Business Machine's 7540 assembly robots, still in their original packing crates, came from a company that encountered financial strains and decided it could not use them.
Well into the 1980's, robot enthusiasts were predicting that by now hundreds of thousands of the machines would have displaced millions of workers because they believed they would work better, faster, longer and at lower cost than regular mortals.
Goliaths of American industry -among them General Electric, General Motors, Westinghouse, Cincinnati Milacron, I.B.M. - jumped into the business of selling robots, some making their own, some through alliances with Japanese robot makers.
''It was 'Star Wars,' '' said Walter Bohland, the Ford Motor Company's expert in using robots and automation. ''They became bigger than life.''
At a Congressional hearing on robots seven years ago, an alarmed Senator, Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat, cited predictions that by 1992, sales of robots would exceed $2 billion. He warned of an upheaval in the work force.
But the more competent and versatile that scientists and engineeers try to make a robot, the more it costs, to the point where the price of a robot exceeds a factory workers' lifetime wages and therefore what companies are willing to pay to do a factory worker's job.
Keith McKee, director of the manufacturing productivity center at the Illinois Institute of Technology, said, ''A lot of companies will buy a robot or two and then find that its care and feeding is more difficult than the care and feeding of a man.''
 
Peak Year in 1987
Mr. Bohland said Ford could use robots and other forms of automation to make automobiles without any human intervention at all. ''Would that be economically justified?'' he asked. ''Or would we go broke? I think the latter.''
Robots' best year was 1987, when 6,219 were sold, for $443 million. Shipments have not exceeded 4,000 a year since then, but because of price increases, sales last year were just short of the peak, at $437 million. General Electric and Westinghouse have gotten out of the business entirely, and more than half the 50-some companies that were making them five years ago have disappeared.
With the nation's unemployment rate at 5.3 percent, even in today's slow economy, any toll on the work force from robots is hard to discern. Peter Unterweger, a technology analyst for the United Automobile Workers union, said that perhaps 80,000 workers have lost jobs to robots but that some of them have new jobs -making, running and servicing robots.
''Yeah, workers worry about robots,'' Mr. Unterweger said. ''In a two-shift operation, one robot might replace two people. But those are mainly guesses. They worry more -correctly - about market developments, which are a much bigger threat. Why aren't General Motors cars selling? The real issue is foreign competition.''
 
'Robots Are Just Machines'
The evolving view of robots is expressed by people like Walter Seering, a professor of mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Robots are just machines,'' he said. ''They have a place like all other machines. They'll continue to account for a small fraction of all automation. They tend to be most effective at jobs people don't want very much or aren't very good at.''
He said they are are particularly good for painting automobiles, working in rooms where paint spray clouds the air. ''Robots don't have to breathe,'' he said.
The least important reason for robots' limitations in the workplace is the one critics most like to cite -behavioral lapses of robots at General Motors, which with 10,000 of them has more than any other company. There have been instances there of robots painting each other rather than cars, and reports of instances, unconfirmed by the company, of one robot that installed windshields and of another that spun around and smashed them.
Mr. Antenen cited a robot incident at a G.M. Fisher auto body plant near here, which closed about a year and a half ago, where the company made hoods, trunk lids and doors. ''They had robots that were picking up sheet metal and transferring it from one press to another,'' he said. ''But instead of grabbing the sheet metal, they were grabbing each other.''
 
'Lot of Painting Robots'
Frank Caiati, executive director of the company's artificial intelligence and advanced systems staff, said: ''Some of those things did happen. We had all new high technology stuff, and it took a long time to debug it. You have to keep things like that in perspective. There are a lot of painting robots out there, and they work.''
The mishaps are less the fault of the robots than of the people who prepare the instructions or programs for them, say officials in the industry.
They say that the tepid reception of robots in the workplace is more the result of another human failure - the presumption that robots could simply stand in for people on the assembly line and work better and faster than people.
''You took what you did with humans and substituted a robot,'' said William J. Sheeran, vice president for technology at General Electric's appliance division. ''The fallacy there was that human beings have infinitely more flexibility and adaptability. People found that to use a robot effectively, say in an assembly-type operation, you had to redesign the product you were assembling to make it easier for a robot to handle it.''
 
What's Good for Robots
''They like to stack things up,'' Mr. Sheeran said of robots. So G.E., like other companies, devised their production processes accordingly. But the redesigning led to a discovery that what worked well for robots could often work even better for people, negating the appeal of robots.
''When we redesigned the product, we made it so much easier for humans to do the operation that we enhanced the effectiveness of humans doing it,'' he said. ''So there was no payback to using robots.''
Companies like G.E. have also been developing other, more efficient forms of automation in which robots simply don't fit.
Mr. McKee said: ''The robot was something to replace what people were doing. But it doesn't think anywhere as well as a man, it is not nearly as fast as a man, and now it's become a very expensive beast.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robots have fallen out of favor with many American businesses. Steve Antenen's company in Hamilton, Ohio, buys used robots that other companies no longer want and resells them. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; ROBOTS; PRICES ROBOTICS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T STEVE ANTENEN (91%); 



9 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
 
International
3-13

 
Oil was delivered to Lithuania through a reopened pipeline as the Kremlin began fulfilling its part of a compromise that has eased the impasse over the republic's campaign for independence. Page 1

 
Soviet republics gain autonomy while Communists agonize over their future. One republic, Uzbekistan, plans to use its valuable cotton crop to make agreements that bypass the decrepit central planning system. 1

 
Communists in the Soviet provinces will arrive at the Party's Congress without a platform, a faith or a movement, as they try to arrest the erosion of their power. 8

 
Helmut Kohl's brush with history, as the Chancellor of West Germany on the eve of reunification, illustrates that those who see him as a bumbling politician misjudge his political acumen and even his luck. 1

 
East Germans gaze ahead, hopefully 6

 
An outline for Peru's economy has been agreed to by the country's President-elect and development agencies. The plan has Peru resume debt payments as it is accepted into the international banking system. 1

 
Protecting the ozone has costs. The agreement by 93 nations to rid the environment of chlorine-based chemicals may require greater electricity consumption and increased public exposure to toxic substances. 12 
 
 
A failed coup attempt in Zambia has left President Kenneth Kaunda in shaky political standing. President Kaunda has been praised abroad for his anti-apartheid efforts but has been derided at home. 3

 
Liberian rebels cut water and power, squeezing the capital 3

 
The plight of Vietnamese refugees has worsened as Southeast Asia loses patience with their troubles. Malaysia, which usually denies the refugees first asylum, has turned away more than 8,700 Vietnamese since May 1989. 10

 
China quietly shifts provincial officials 9

 
Romanian says he advises opponents of Kim in North Korea 12

 
NATIONAL/14-23

 
Political Memo: Democrats' spirits have improved in light of President Bush's reversal on tax increases. Some in the Party talk of mounting a serious challenge against, in their view, a vulnerable President. 1

 
The aura of Nelson Mandela's visit remains in black communities even as he prepares to leave the United States. Millions of black Americans are pondering how to apply his uplifting message to the problems in the United States. 1

 
In Los Angeles, Mandela gets the million-dollar treatment 18

 
A land grant to the Government, perhaps the largest ever, has been made by a private foundation that spent $21 million to acquire property encompassing wildlife refuges and historic sites in seven states. 1

 
U.S. cocaine use may have peaked, researchers say. In some cities they report a decline in the number of cocaine-related deaths and hospital emergency room cases. 14

 
NASA's recent design troubles have lead some experts to fault the space agency for concentrating too much on expensive, high-profile projects like the space shuttles and the space telescope. 16

 
Robot unemployment is growing. Despite futuristic visions of robot-led manufacturing, American industry has grown cool to the robot. People outperform robots in many jobs, and more mundane forms of automation often have better results. 16

 
Bush walks through environmental thicket 20

 
Federal aid for the homeless is in place: The catch is getting it 14

 
At NOW convention, goal is putting more women in office 14

 
U.S. to make it easier to gain asylum 20

 
Milwaukee Council censures alderman over threat 22

 
Judge refuses to prevent deaths of monkeys in Federal lab 16

 
Social Security fund for tuition is proposed 17

 
V.A. plans change in medical group 22

 
Peoria set to welcome its freed native son 23

 
REGIONAL/24-31

 
What to do on Sunday mornings? Rev. Gardner Taylor, who for 42 years led one of New York City's largest black congregations, has retired, but not before he had the honor of introducing Nelson Mandela to a church audience. 26

 
Energy-saving in New York will be bolstered when the state agency that provides electricity to downstate governments introduces a conservation program for its customers. 25

 
Reporter's Notebook: The budget for New York City is the product of a compromise by the City Council and Mayor Dinkins on disagreements over spending that amount to less than 1 percent of the $28 billion package. 30

 
Many bills linger as end nears in Albany 30

 
Census takes to the streets 24

 
Feet on the ground, they're flying 30

 
New York State cherry harvest is said to be down 31

 
Obituaries 28

Eli Whitney Debevoise, lawyer
R. A. Campanioni, a philanthropist
 
Arts/Reviews 48-49

 
Campus Life 35-36

 Fashion 44-45

 
Life Style 38

 
Pastimes 50-51

 
Weddings 46-48

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); PERU (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (88%); RACE & RACISM (86%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); POLITICS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); COUPS (70%); REFUGEES (70%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); WILDLIFE (67%); CHLORINE (66%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (63%); SPACE INDUSTRY (61%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); COCAINE (60%); SPACECRAFT (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



10 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 48, Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Alison Beach Is Wed To David A. Jaeger

 BODY:
Alison Isdale Beach, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John S. Beach Jr. of Rye, N.Y., was married yesterday to David Allen Jaeger, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Jaeger of Cedar Grove, N.J. The Rev. Vance E. Polley performed the ceremony at the Rye Presbyterian Church.
Mrs. Jaeger, 26 years old, is a candidate for a doctorate in medieval history at Columbia University. She is a graduate of Smith College with a master's degree from Columbia. She was presented at the Westchester Cotillion. Her mother, Martha I. Beach, is the president of N-Con Systems, a manufacturer of water pollution controls equipment in Larchmont, N.Y. Her father is the company's vice president.
The bridegroom, 26, is a candidate for a doctorate in economics at University of Michigan. He is a graduate of Williams College and has a master's degree from Michigan. His mother, Jean Jaeger, is an elementary school teacher in Cedar Grove. His father teaches mathematics and computer science at Millburn (N.J.) High School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WED (TSX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WESTAIM CORP (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (85%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (85%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (84%); HISTORY (55%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: BEACH, ALISON ISDALE (ALISON ALLEN); JAEGER, DAVID ALLEN ANN LIVERMORE (71%); 



11 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 38, Column 4; Style Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Lifestyle;
The Vanities, They Were Oh So Tepid

BYLINE: By GEORGIA DULLEA

 BODY:
The rich of New York are decamping for their summer capital on the South Shore of Long Island and other watering holes, signifying the end of what is quaintly called the spring social season, although the revels spill over into summer. Some season. ''Was there a season this year?'' asked Bill Blass, who knows better. He ran a recent gala for the Hospital for Special Surgery, one of the season's few big benefits for which tickets sold out.
''The gravy train doesn't stop here anymore,'' said George Trescher, who organizes most of the big benefits. 
The billionaire quotient was lower in the ballrooms this season, along with the count of charity stars. Worse, some names on the Tiffany Feather Ball committee appeared on the very night of that ball on place cards at a Park Avenue dinner for the designer Valentino.
 
Avoiding the Ghastly
Nan Kempner's appearances at benefits were limited to pet causes. Her social plate was vulgarly full, she explained, while her husband, Thomas, refused to get done up in black tie to be ''paraded around at those ghastly galas.''
Her theory - ''They're just as happy to get my check as my body'' - may have sounded good to others on the charity circuit.
To the envy of Mortimer's habitues, Mrs. Kempner has been cast as a social X-ray in the film ''Bonfire of the Vanities.'' Gone Hollywood, as they say, but yet to go before the cameras.
Some in this set tried out for bit parts. Others had hoped to be elegantly dressed extras in a ballroom scene that was to have been filmed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. But the museum had second thoughts about the Temple of Dendur as a movie set, and so the scene will be shot in Los Angeles, presumably with mere actors.
New York noses are out of joint about this. Why, they taught Tom Wolfe everything he knows. But despite the ''Bonfire'' disappointment, the season offered plenty of chances to relive the old 80's glories.
 
From Minor to Major
There was a television miniseries based on the Dominick Dunne novel ''People Like Us,'' said by socialites to be based on people like them. There was Mr. Dunne's new best seller, ''An Inconvenient Woman,'' whose characters struck some as composites from New York and Los Angeles society. There is the new John Guare play, ''Six Degrees of Separation,'' which has been likened to a ''Bonfire'' for Off Broadway.
The spring season was in some ways a replay of the fall season (which stretched well into winter), with dark minor themes becoming major ones and nostalgia for those middle-age birthday parties that were once allowed at the Met.
''People are not as happy as they used to be,'' said Mary McFadden, who nonetheless seemed happy with Kohle Yohannan at a party marking their first wedding anniversary in May.
''A black cloud looms over the city with the idea of recession,'' she went on. ''Everyone sees the cloud but no one speaks about it. So they get dressed and go out to another party.''
 
Out, Out, Ostentation
Again this season women made an effort to dress down in public. Ostentation was not only unfashionable, but also unwise. With the backlash against Wall Street, the press was no longer tame. Who dared risk being photographed for Women's Wear Daily wearing an extra diamond?
''It's an uncomfortable climate, this gap between the haves and the have-nots,'' said Lisa Schiff, a chairwoman of the Gold and Silver Ball. ''All that show-offy stuff is out of vogue.''
Mrs. Schiff said she was not sure what would replace the showiness, adding, ''Let's hope good taste.''
Some parties that were supposed to be wonderful turned out otherwise. Some parties that were supposed to be wonderful never happened. In the latter category was a dinner Brooke Astor has been trying to give for Mayor David N. Dinkins at her Park Avenue apartment. The date was changed three times, as dignitaries in New York and Washington juggled schedules. Everyone agreed to June 20, and then along came Nelson Mandela. Now the dinner is off until fall.
 
Some Great Funerals
Funerals are becoming grand social gatherings, with Halston and Nancy Lady Keith remembered this season, as Diana Vreeland and Malcolm Forbes had been earlier in the year. Auctions are still social, although bidding by Wall Streeters has been less spirited and at a sale of Vreeland memorabilia, the bidding was sluggish.
On the other hand, the Daily News columnist William Norwich observed, ''the Sotheby's auction sure has replaced the Frank E. Campbell viewing in society.''
Gossip columns are beginning to sound like police blotters. One read that John Pomerantz's BMW had been stolen at the Metropolitan Opera and that Mai and Paul Hallingby's Mercedes had been taken at gunpoint from their chauffeur on Sutton Place. In other widely publicized crimes, Elizabeth Rohatyn's purse was snatched, and $40,000 in jewelry was taken from Georgette Mosbacher in a hotel by a man carrying a machine pistol.
''An Uzi!'' a woman at the bar at Mortimer's kept saying at a party for Mario Buatta. ''An Uzi!''
 
Fearsome Tablemates
''People are afraid to go out at night,'' Mr. Buatta said. ''Afraid to wear jewels, to go to charity parties. They don't know who's sitting next to them anymore. They don't have a clue.''
People will still go charity parties. ''But people will be more keen in the editing of events they choose to go to,'' Mr. Trescher said. ''If they can, they'll go to things they think are amusing, and maybe send money to the others.''
With hard work and some luck, the charity party picture for fall may look less bleak than it does now. For now, the door to vacation swings wide, and so it's off to the Hamptons and other summer camps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); MOVIE FILMING (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); FILM (69%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



12 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 36, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Boston College;
Social Problems Are the Focus Of a New Program

DATELINE: CHESTNUT HILL, Mass.

 BODY:
It's summertime and a student's thoughts turn to sun, sand, surf - and social consciousness?
At Boston College, human rights, the environment and a score of other social issues are on the summer agenda for Richard Culliton, a senior English and philosophy major from Swampscott, Mass., and his newly established Department of Social Awareness.
While volunteerism and social service have always been hallmarks of Boston College, a Jesuit institution, and have been on the rise of late, the new department is the first to coordinate and encourage social advocacy on the campus and beyond. 
''We just can't sit back and wait for things to get done,'' said the new director of social awareness, David Cohen, a senior majoring in economics and political science from Damariscotta, Me. ''Students can have such a powerful voice in the world. We have to utilize it more.''
 
A $30,000 Program
The new department is being organized by Mr. Culliton, Mr. Cohen and Scott Sellers, a senior psychology major from Reading, Mass., who is the vice president of social awareness, along with three committee members from the student government.
Mr. Sellers has developed a $30,000 program intended to address broad concerns related to the environment, human rights and other social issues.
There are plans for an emergency disaster fund, charity fund-raising contests among residence halls, biweekly social-awareness forums, a volunteer bus service that will visit Boston area shelters, a campuswide system to prevent food waste and the creation of national student networks to exchange ideas on social programs.
Educational programs will be a departmental priority, said Mr. Sellers, who believes that ''education breeds activism'' and who estimates that a high percentage of Boston College students are ready to volunteer.
 
'Phone Tree' for Students
While issues of social consciousness are likely to be the most popular targets for department efforts, students' rights and current political issues also have their place. ''Laws are being passed that affect our generation and we can't just ignore it,'' Mr. Sellers said. ''Students should be the largest lobbying faction in the country.''
To that end, the social-awareness team is proposing a ''phone tree,'' a listing of participating colleges and universities through which students nationwide will be kept abreast of important events as they occur.
In the case of a student march in Washington, for example, students at the university closest to the event would contact the universities above and below it on the phone tree to spread the word and stimulate students to act. ''There is so much information, knowledge and energy at all universities,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''It should be shared.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON COLLEGE (94%); BOSTON COLLEGE (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SOCIETAL ISSUES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: SCOTT SELLERS (89%); DAVID COHEN (74%); RICHARD CULLITON (59%); 



13 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 22, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: RECORDINGS;
Early Opera Is the Latest Rage on Disks

BYLINE: By GEORGE JELLINEK; George Jellinek conducts ''The Vocal Scene'' program on WQXR.

 BODY:
Contrary to grim prognostications, opera is alive and well as it approaches the end of its fourth century. And while it is true that only relatively few modern works have attained repertory status, our generation has turned toward opera's first and second centuries with remarkable industry and concentration. Monteverdi, Cavalli, Handel, Lully, Rameau and Paisiello have become festival fare all over Europe and even in America and, for a broader audience, recorded documentation assures their permanence.
 
Monteverdi, Stage to Disk
Monteverdi's last opera, ''L'incoronazione di Poppea'' (1642), was recorded following nine staged performances in 1988 by the City of London Baroque Sinfonia under Richard Hickox (Virgin Classics 90775; CD and LP). Posterity was left without specific details of instrumentation by the composer, and contemporary editors who approach the score rarely escape without critical reservations of one kind or another.
In this instance, the performing edition by Clifford Bartlett (who has also provided thoughtful annotations) allows full prominence to the voices, limiting the accompaniments to continuo instruments (harpsichord, lute or organ, but hardly ever in combinations) and using the strings for ritornellos and two cornets for the ceremonial passages. Even compared with the relatively spare Harnoncourt version (Teldec 35247), this seems excessively lean, yet it creates a very appealing aura of chamber opera. 
Fortunately, Mr. Hickox's singers surmount the test of such risky exposure. The Poppea of Arleen Auger combines bewitching soprano tones with sharp cunning and steely determination in the right measure. As her worthy partner in an opera that glorifies the triumph of illicit love, the mezzo-soprano Della Jones portrays a vital and imperious Nero; their love duet in Act I Scene 10 sizzles with sexuality.
In a large and almost uniformly strong cast, the bass Gregory Reinhart deserves to be singled out for his eloquent and properly pompous Seneca, along with the sopranos Sarah Leonard (Drusilla), Juliet Booth (Valletto) and the bass Brian Banatyne Scott (Mercurio).
Whatever scholarship may say on the subject, I am uncomfortable with a tenor (Adrian Thompson) in the role of the nurse Arnalta. The mezzo-soprano Linda Hirst is capable in the important role of Octavia, Nero's discarded wife, but lacks the opulent tones to do it full justice.
As Ottone, Poppea's cuckolded lover, the counter-tenor James Bowman nearly succeeds with his expressive means in overcoming the handicap of an unattractive tone. All in all, though, this is a successful realization of an opera that must be savored in its entirety to fully appreciate Gian Francesco Busenello's amazingly literate and sophisticated libretto.
 
Shakespeare Via Purcell
Italian opera made virtually no headway in 17th-century England, but the genius of Henry Purcell flourished nonetheless. ''The Fairy Queen'' (1692), a thorough musical reworking of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream,'' was his fourth work for the stage - a masque, as it was called, combining spoken dialogue with singing and dancing. We have the generous musical portions of ''The Fairy Queen,'' recorded following a staged performance at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in July 1989 with Les Arts Florissants under William Christie (Harmonia Mundi HMC 1308/89; two CD's).
The orchestra is quite large, including woodwinds and trumpets in pairs, percussion and a full continuo, and used with great diversity for excellent coloristic effects. The dance interludes are lively and most imaginatively scored. No fewer than 16 singers are in the cast, all capable or better and some even displaying notable comic gifts.
A considerable theatrical atmosphere is conveyed in an approach that is straightforward and devoid of the kind of coyness that sometimes invades such presentations, and it is all captured in crisp and clear sonics.
 
Handel's 'Rinaldo' With Cuts
Italian opera took wing in England with the arrival of Handel, whose first opera for London, ''Rinaldo'' (1711), initiated a glittering period for the genre. With its showy arias, flamboyant characters and elaborate stage action, ''Rinaldo'' has recently entered the repertory of several large opera houses, the Metropolitan included. For it to ''play'' in such theaters, however, the opera's generous Baroque proportions invariably have to be shortened - a procedure followed by Venice's Teatro La Fenice, as a recording made there in June 1989 bears witness (Nuova Era 6813/14; CD only).
In addition to cuts, this performance also deviates from the original sequencing of the numbers in some instances, and no efforts are discernible to honor Baroque performance practices. The orchestra under John Fisher gets off to a good start with a brisk Prelude; thereafter the results are more variable. Marilyn Horne gave a powerhouse performance in the title role in New York; shecommunicates the same authority and fearless agility on records, albeit with less reliability in intonation.
The soprano Cecilia Gasdia brings a cultivated tone and discreet ornamentation to Almirena's gentle music, while the soprano Christine Weidinger portrays the magician Armida with steely tones and rough vocalism but impressive dramatic strength. As the warrior Argante, the role Samuel Ramey so triumphantly made his own in several productions, Natale de Carolis shines more modestly but respectably. With undistinguished sound and less than painstaking technical processing, this is not a set for the purist, but certainly acceptable.
 
And a Masque From Handel
Handel's ''Acis and Galatea'' (1720) is a masque in the Purcell tradition, which contains such admirable arias as the tenor's ''Love sounds an alarm'' and the bass's ''O ruddier than the cherry.'' Robert King conducts the King's Consort in an intimately scaled performance with an instrumental ensemble of ideal size. There are no outstanding voices here, but all the soloists represent the fine English tradition with true pitch and clear enunciation. Technically, the recording is a model (Hyperion CDA 66361/1; CD only).
 
In Handel's 'Flavio,' Shortness Is Relative
Handel reached his operatic apex between 1723 and 1725, a period that produced ''Ottone,'' ''Flavio,'' ''Giulio Cesare,'' ''Tamerlano'' and ''Rodelinda.'' ''Flavio'' is admittedly the weakest in the lot, and it was not well received by Londoners, who were somewhat baffled by the opera's mixture of tragic and comic elements. In his informative notes to what appears to be ''Flavio's'' first recording (Harmonia Mundi 901312/13; CD only), the Handel scholar Winton Dean observes that ''since it is a short opera . . . therefore it needs no cutting.'' The recording is indeed uncut, but its ''shortness'' (2 hours and 36 minutes, longer than ''Aida'') must be understood in Handelian terms.
The opera's subject was clearly influenced by Corneille's ''Cid.'' Its hero, Guido, must choose between love and family honor. Intrigues and complications abound, and the vocal writing is virtuosic. Jeffrey Gall, the counter-tenor, brings to the title role - a lovesick but magnanimous king - a smooth tone and bravura flair, and another counter-tenor, Derek Lee Ragin, displays similar virtues in the role of the tormented Guido. Excellent, too, is the mezzo Bernarda Fink as Teodata, a lady of the court with whom Flavio is infatuated, though her heart (and the rest of her anatomy, as we learn) belongs to a young man named Vitige.
The role of Vitige is sung by a soprano, an odd choice but it was Handel's. A good-sized orchestra of period instruments is used, Ensemble 415 led by Rene Jacobs, and the sound is quite wonderful. ''Flavio'' is not top-drawer Handel, but some of the arias, usually in lively tempos, are lovely, and the orchestra is used with Handel's customary imaginativeness.
 
A Mozart Singspiel Worth Collecting
Opera in Handel's time was still largely a succession of arias, frequently of excessive length, that militated against dramatic flow. Mozart, who was to change all that, was still hampered by these old conventions in his early works. ''Die Schuldigkeit des ersten Gebots'' (''The Obligation to Keep the First Commandment''), K. 35, is a sacred singspiel from his 11th year (1767). Following another Baroque convention, it presents allegorical figures to extol Christian virtues and caution against vices. There is a brief overture, followed by seven arias preceded by recitatives and a final trio.
Melodic gifts and orchestrating inventiveness are already in abundance; a sense of proportion and economy were yet to develop. Even allowing for the likelihood that Mozart's father, Leopold, peered over the shoulders of his prodigious offspring, the mind boggles at the results. Collectors of Mozartiana will be pleased to add this set (Philips 422 360-2; 2 CD's) to their library. It is unlikely that they will ever encounter a better performance than that offered here by Margaret Marshall, Ann Murray and Inga Nielsen, sopranos; Hans Peter Blochwitz and Aldo Baldwin, tenors, and the Stuttgart Radio Symphony Orchestra under Sir Neville Marriner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arleen Auger, left, in the title role in ''Poppea'' and Della Jones as Nerone in a London production of the Monteverdi opera (David Warner Ellis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: LONDON BAROQUE SINFONIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDINGS (AUDIO); REVIEWS; OPERA OPERA (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: JELLINEK, GEORGE ARLEEN AUGER (54%); 



14 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
Canada's Dollar Holds Firm

 BODY:
So much for Meech Lake. That accord, meant to be a constitutional bridge tying French-speaking Quebec to English-speaking Canada, disolved last weekend. But the financial markets have felt nary a ripple. For the week, the Canadian dollar - still supported by high interest rates - was up 1 percent at 1.1633 to the dollar. The Toronto stock index on Friday was up 14.01 to 3544.6, an increase of 1.5 percent for the week. President Bush's acceptance of the possibility of a tax increase weakened the United States dollar against major currencies at the end of the week. And looking ahead to an economically united Germany, East German marks were to begin trading for West German marks today, an event currency traders will watch carefully. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	152.20	154.85	143.60	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6610	1.6745	1.9500	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1633	1.1789	1.1963	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.7490	1.7330	1.5510	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$357.50	$349.50	$373.50	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); BRITISH POUND (75%); POLITICS (73%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); 



15 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Equipment Drags on A.T.&T.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
A generation ago, telephones were mostly black and square. Corporate switchboards were full of tiny gears and wheels like an alarm clock, and the equipment in telephone-company central offices was crammed with copper wiring. One company made almost all of it: Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
Today the latest central-office equipment uses hair-thin glass filaments to carry calls, and the switchboards are small computers. The telephones come in all shapes and colors, and even the Western Electric name, which evokes vague and romanticized images of cowboys stringing wires across the prairies, has been replaced at A.T.&T. with pedestrian titles such as the ''network systems group'' and ''business communications systems unit.''
Yet A.T.&T. continues to make a vast range of phone equipment, remaining the world's largest producer of switchboards and central-office equipment. Sales and rentals of equipment made up two-fifths of the company's $36 billion in revenues last year. But the products are mostly in markets that, unlike long-distance service, are stagnant and vulnerable to imports, and becoming more so. 
Western Electric grew fat as an in-house supplier to the nation's telephone monopoly, and A.T.&T.'s current manufacturing operations are still trying to shake a legacy of slow-moving technical perfectionism and inattention to customers.
Corporate officials still sound tentative and a little apologetic about being competitive. ''We're sort of lean and mean and hungry,'' said Robert S. Russell, vice president of marketing for A.T.&T.'s network systems group. ''It's an awful way to describe us, but that's the way I feel,''
Wall Street analysts and investors alike were painfully reminded of all these facts on Wednesday, when the company announced that weak equipment sales, as well as high credit-card costs, would depress its profits for the second quarter and the year. The unexpected statement from the company briefly panicked institutional investors, who promptly pushed down A.T.&T.'s stock by $2.125 a share, to $39.125, in a trading avalanche that totaled 11.5 million shares, or 8 percent of all consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading that day. Trading of the nation's most widely held stock continued to be extremely heavy on Thursday, at 3.8 million shares, and Friday, at 2 million shares. The stock price ended the week at $38.50.
The strong reaction startled company officials. ''I'm a little surprised at the volume,'' said Morris Tanenbaum, chief financial officer and a vice chairman of A.T.&T.
Mr. Tanenbaum said the company felt obliged to issue the unusual statement because Wall Street analysts were so wrong in their estimates of A.T.&T.'s second-quarter earnings, predicting they would go up, instead of down as the company's own forecasts indicated. Part of the problem is that the people who pay closest attention to A.T.&T. are telephone-service analysts. When they are not writing about A.T.&T., they write about the MCI Communications Corporation, say, or the regional Bell operating companies created by the 1984 breakup of A.T.&T. None of these companies have large manufacturing operations.
Some analysts wish A.T.&T. would sell its manufacturing business and focus on long-distance service. ''I'd just as soon see them get rid of it,'' said Jack B. Grubman of Paine Webber, who slashed his estimate of A.T.&T.'s second-quarter earnings by a fifth after Wednesday's announcement. But with a few exceptions, such as an agreement four weeks ago to sell a huge factory in South Carolina that recycles copper from old wires and cables, A.T.&T. says it has no intention of leaving the equipment business. And with $14 billion in annual sales and rentals, A.T.&T.'s manufacturing operations alone are nearly as big as the McDonnell Douglas Corporation and larger than the Digital Equipment Corporation, Caterpillar Inc. or the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
Some of these A.T.&T. manufacturing operations have had trouble this year, although the company says the difficulties are not serious. Particularly weak during the second quarter were sales of telephone network switching, transmission and cable equipment to telephone companies; sales of electronic switchboards, multiple-line telephones and computer equipment to corporations, and sales of all products to the Federal Government, said Richard A. Gray, a spokesman for the company.
Analysts say that the problems are a combination of weak demand in a sluggish economy and growing competition, from domestic, European and Japanese rivals. ''It's a little of both,'' said J. Michel Guite, a telecommunications equipment analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.
Other telephone equipment producers agree, with the notable exception of A.T.&T.'s archrival, Northern Telecom Ltd. of Canada. Northern Telecom has grabbed huge chunks of the American market share because of its quickness in seeing the advantages of digital equipment, which uses the computer language of ones and zeros to convey calls instead of the old analog method of mimicking the wave pattern of the human voice.
Siemens AG, which is based in Munich and sold $9 billion in electronic switchboards and telephone network equipment last year, thinks that the American market for switchboards is flat and that the regional Bell operating company market for network equipment may actually shrink by up to 15 percent this year. ''The central-office business has, over the last four or five years, been under intense competition that's building and building and building, as a result of both Northern Telecom and A.T.&T. competing against each other and new entrants such as ourselves coming on the market,'' said Frederick R. Fromm, Siemens vice president of United States network systems sales. The result, he addded, is that ''The prices have eroded and the margins have been substantially reduced.''
Industry sales of central-office equipment in the United States are in a downturn and are unlikely to recover for two years, said Bo A. Nilsson, vice president for United States marketing and sales of network systems at L.M. Ericsson of Sweden.
Roy Merrills, head of Northern Telecom's United States operations, disagreed. Early predictions by some consultants that the United States network systems market will grow by 7 percent this year and the electronic switchboard market by 3 percent match Northern Telecom's latest estimates to within a percentage point, he said. ''I don't see the softness in the market - in fact, I think it's very active,'' he said. His company expects to increase its profit margins this year.
A.T.&T.'s sales of network systems equipment, which account for half of its equipment sales and a fifth of overall sales, fell in the first five months of this year from the same period a year ago, said Mr. Russell of A.T.&T. The group's sales to the seven regional Bell operating companies, its main customers, were 5 percent below the company's target for this period, he said, adding, however, that strong prospects for international and cellular equipment sales made him confident that the group would meet its targets for the year. Two Bell operating companies, one with high growth and the other with low growth, notified A.T.&T. in March and April that they would slash their equipment spending and dedicate more of their investment budgets to the labor-intensive task of repairing their outdoor wiring, Mr. Russell said. He declined to identify the companies, but industry experts said the slow-growth company is the Nynex Corporation and the fast-growth company is the Bell South Corporation.
A decision on June 21 by the Federal Communications Commission, which A.T.&T. has praised, may further dampen equipment demand, said Richard M. Wolf, a consultant in Ridgewood, N.J. The F.C.C. ordered local telephone companies to reduce by $1.1 billion a year their charges to long-distance companies for conveying telephone calls from homes and businesses to the nearest long-distance switching centers. That decision should help A.T.&T.'s long-distance operations but will likely hurt the equipment manufacturing divisions because local telephone companies will likely cut back on investment to save money, Mr. Wolf said.
A.T.&T.'s failure to move quickly into digital equipment in the 1970's, after pioneering its development, is widely cited by critics of the company who contend that it is too slow-moving to compete effectively in today's telecommunications equipment market. The company replies that it has shortened the time it takes to bring a new product to market and now seeks to promote more aggressive executives.
The new aggressiveness has paid off in sales of electronic switchboards to corporate customers, said Berge A. Ayvazian of Yankee Group, a Boston telecommunications consulting firm. From 1987 to 1989, A.T.&T.'s market share rose 2 percentage points, to 25 percent, while Northern Telecom lost 1 point to 19 percent and the Rolm Company fell 4 points to 15 percent, he said.
Yet the sheer size of what was once Western Electric, combined with its lumbering reputation, have made A.T.&T. the target of every American and foreign equipment manufacturer. ''A.T.&T. is probably losing share,'' as Northern Telecom and new market entrants expand, Mr. Fromm said. ''There's only 100 percent, and it has to come from somewhere.''
 
SQUABBLING OVER A BAN
American Telephone and Telegraph and its progeny are squabbling. The seven regional phone companies are barred, under terms of the 1984 A.T.&T. breakup, from making telephone equipment, offering long-distance service and selling their own computerized data. The regionals want the bans lifted - not to mass produce equipment by themselves, but to write their own equipment software and take part in ventures with other manufacturers. On Friday, a bill was sent from committee to the Senate floor allowing them to make equipment if they set up separate subsidiaries to do so. A bill in House committee would lift the equipment ban and allow some computer-data service. A.T.&T., already concerned about foreign competition, is fighting passage of both bills, whose prospects are regarded as modest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Nynex, compact digital equipment (left) is finally replacing bulky analog systems. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); charts: U.S. sales fo Corporate Switchboards, 1989 (Source: Yankee Group); U.S. sales of Telephone Compnay Swithes, 1989 (Source: Northern Business Information/Datapro)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); A T&T (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; COMPANY REPORTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SWITCHGEAR MFG (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (65%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



16 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Construction spending for May.
Purchasing managers report for June.
 
TUESDAY: Factory orders for May. 
The Group of 24 developing nations meets with Secretary of State Baker on international monetary matters in Brussels.
The Government is expected to announce a bond issue to finance the savings and loan bailout.
 
WEDNESDAY: Independence Day. Banks, financial markets and many businesses are closed.
 
THURSDAY: Auto sales for the last 10 days of June.
 
FRIDAY: Unemployment for June.
The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee releases the minutes of its May meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SHCEDULE

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (65%); OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (65%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (86%); TRENDS (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (85%); BAILOUTS (84%); SAVINGS & LOANS (84%); BOND ISSUES (55%); BONDS (54%); 



17 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY;
Is U.S.-Japan Pact a Fair Trade?

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
A new trade agreement promises to bring Japan some of the greatest products of American culture: wide-open, overbuilt roads, discount shopping and maybe even some American merchandise. Thursday's agreement commits the Japanese to vastly increase their spending on public works, revamp their retailing system and prosecute monopolistic abuses. The United States pledged to trim its budget deficit and welcome continued foreign investment. Economists say the pact will benefit Japanese consumers more than American exporters. ''The Japanese quality of life will improve,'' said Donald M. Krueger, research director at Sanyo Securities. ''But it doesn't seem that it will have a major impact on Japanese demand for U.S. goods.'' Japan, with its third-world roads and sewers, plans to spend $2.8 trillion more on public works during the 1990's than the 1980's. Who needs the Hubble telescope to see the edge of the universe, when the Japanese have the money to build a highway there? 
 
Iraq Menaces OPEC Neighbors
 
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq is emerging as the bully boy of the Middle East, and higher oil prices are bound to result. He warned Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates last week to quit busting production quotas set by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Implicit in his warnings was a military threat. With 42 armed divisions, chemical weapons and a larger air force than Great Britain's, Iraq ''clearly has territorial designs on Kuwait,'' said Willaim L. Randol, a senior petroleum analyst at First Boston. Iraq is seeking to displace Saudi Arabia as OPEC's unofficial leader. A top Iraqi official said in Kuwait that oil prices - at $14 a barrel, now $4 below OPEC's current target - should rise to $25. Having fought a war to humble one enemy, Iran, Iraq is now threatening to devastate Israel should it dare attack any neighbors.
 
Nissan Rescues Subaru
 
In Japan, the social safety net catches fallen corporations. Last week, the Nissan Motor Company effectively took control of Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd., the maker of Subaru automobiles. The move came about through a discreet change of management, not any embarrassing bankruptcy or forced merger, and without the mass layoffs that plague Detroit. Fuji's Subaru sales have been slipping, and it lacks the scale to compete with Toyota, Nissan and Honda. With Nissan's plants strained to their limits, the company could make good use of Fuji's excess capacity.
 
U.S. Raider, Japanese Resolve
 
T. Boone Pickens may be no sokaiya, but he knows how to break up a Japanese shareholders meeting. On Thursday, he and his retinue stormed out of the Koito Manufacturing Company's annual gathering, loudly denouncing it as a farce. Mr. Pickens, Koito's largest shareholder, with 26.4 percent, demanded four seats on the board for his allies and himself. Koito, a supplier of auto parts, has hired American investment bankers, public relations advisers and lawyers to help fend him off. Sokaiya are the real professionals in disruption, racketeers who extort corporate payoffs in return for minding their manners. Mr. Pickens insists that he is a long-term investor, with no interest in ''greenmail'' to hush him up.
 
In Brief
 
Motorola Inc. and Hitachi Ltd. reached a preliminary agreement last week to settle a court battle over computer chip patents. The dispute threatened to keep Motorola from shipping its 68030 chip used in Apple and Hewlett-Packard computers.
 
*
 
Gustave Leven, the 76-year-old founder of Source Perrier, resigned as chairman on Friday, nearly five months after the discovery of benzene in the company's mineral water. The company will reserve $71 million this year, in addtion to $78 million last year, to pay for a worldwide recall.
 
The Germanys Exchange Marks
 
East German banks are open today to issue West German marks in exchange for East German savings. Citizens can celebrate the first day of economic reunification by changing as many as 4,000 East marks for an equal number of West marks - by all accounts, a generous rate. Stores have taken drastic discounts to clear out their old, Communist-era merchandise before citizens have the hard currency to afford much better. But many East German companies and jobs are unlikely to survive exposure to free-market competition.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
An About-Face on Taxes
 
It was a proposal that the President hoped would draw attention at the Capitol, the Federal Reserve and in Tokyo - but nowhere else. The wording was vague, the day crowded with other headlines. But the news that the tax-hike-proof President now sees the need for ''tax revenue increases'' spread rapidly last week, with the Democrats doing most of the spreading. The Japanese, who have admonished the United States to close its budget deficit, did agree two days later to revamp their own economy. At the Federal Reserve Board, where Chairman Alan Greenspan has urged the White House to reduce the deficit, the Administration seeksr lower interest rates. Some of the least welcome attention came fromeconomists who said that a tax increase risks pitching a weak economy into a recession. As David M. Jones, the chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., said, ''The concept of this budget agreement is excellent, almost noble, but it could not come at a worse time.''
 
Indicators Tell a Mixed Story
 
Economists have delivered a dull gloss on the index of leading economic indicators. They explained away a seemingly strong, eight-tenths of 1 percent rise in May as no departure from the economy's slow course, given the index's volatility and a one-tenth of 1 percent drop in April. Manufacturing is firming - growth abroad might improve exports - but consumer confidence fell sharply. ''For the rest of the year we're going to see consumer spending going nowhere,'' said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
 
COMPANIES
 
Now Banks Hold Trump's Cards
 
Like some savings and loans that binged and busted, Donald J. Trump has been bailed out. Banks agreed on Tuesday to lend him $65 million just in time for him to avoid defaulting on ''junk'' bonds that back one of his Atlantic City casinos. In return for being saved from possible bankruptcy, Mr. Trump consented to sell off several of his properties and review all his business transactions with his bankers. But he didn't give up ownership of many of his assets. For many of them, he paid so much and piled on such debts that their net worth is no greater than the value of some failed savings institutions. But if New York and Atlantic City regain their prosperity soon, Mr. Trump could again have some bucks to match his boasts.
 
*
 
Mr. Trump's plight puts only the bankers, not the taxpayers, at risk. The banks have agreed to defer his payments on almost $850 million in loans. Manufacturers Hanover said on Thursday that it will classify $157 million in loans as ''nonperforming,'' and other banks are expected to follow. No loan losses yet, but analysts doubt that Mr. Trump's cash flow and asset sales can possibly cover his debts.
 
*
 
It may be a diet, but pizza and beer are still allowed, and desserts are 100 percent exempt. To win his loan package, Mr. Trump had to accept a personal spending limit of $450,000 a month this year, $375,000 next year and $300,000 in 1992. But the mortgage payments on his grandiose dwellings and the costs of running his plane and yacht are not included.
 
Cohen Gets $10 Million Package
 
Peter A. Cohen might not have a high-rise office fireplace anymore, but a $10 million severance package from Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. should keep him warm through the winters. Mr. Cohen lost his job as Shearson's chairman and chief executive in February when the firm's parent, the American Express Company, decided that Shearson should quit chasing mega-deals and start earning more money. The settlement, including an agreement to avoid public sniping, has somehow transformed hard feelings into warmth and gratitude. ''It's a fair and generous resolution,'' said Mr. Cohen's lawyer, Stanley S. Arkin. Mr. Cohen, who will remain a Shearson consultant until March 1991, is said to be assembling his own investment group.
 
New York Restaurants Retrench
 
The surest signs of New York's economic decline: Restaurants are lowering their prices, and master chefs are unemployed. Every week brings fresh reports of restaurant woes from publications whose readers regard dining out as a form of communal worship, but who are becoming less able to tithe as part of the rituals. Huberts, much favored by its Park Avenue neighbors, has cut its prices four times in the last year, from $175 to $100 for dinner for two. Same food, but no wine steward or starchy uniforms for waiters. ''With the real estate business off, and the investment banking business so seriously affected, it has made a major impact on the restaurant business,'' said Len Allison, the owner and chef. ''Everybody is complaining.''
 
In Brief
 
Clone computers, but not software. A Federal judge ruled on Thursday that competitors have infringed on the copyright of Lotus 1-2-3, the best-selling, $495 spreadsheet program. The ruling, against some $99 programs, is likely to keep upstarts from imitating the formats of the most successful software.
 
*
 
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company said last week that lagging computer and telephone-equipment sales, and the costs introducing a new credit card, will lower its earnings.
 
*
 
The Campbell Soup Company announced plans to sell several businesses, mostly in fresh foods, with annual sales of more than $300 million. The sales are expected to result in a $302 million charge against earnings.
 
*
 
RJR Nabisco Inc. has budgeted $250 million in fees for bankers, lawyers and underwriters working on a huge financial overhaul.
 
*
 
Clone computer, but not software. A Federal judge ruled on Thursday that competitors have infringed onthe copyright of Lotus 1-2-3, the best-selling, $495 spreadsheet program.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Japan to get roads, U.S., less deficit (Reuters); Iraq President Saddam Hussein; Subaru: Made by Nissan (Subaru); Peter Cohen: Sweet deal; graphs: monthly percent change in leading economic indicators, June 1989-May 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.); price of dinner for two and Huberts and N.Y. area employment in finance, insuracne and real estate, Jan. 1989-May 1990 (Bureau of labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (82%); 7270 (TSE) (81%); 7276 (TSE) (60%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3647 VEHICULAR LIGHTING EQUIPMENT (60%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (82%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (81%); KOITO MANUFACTURING CO LTD (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); EXTORTION (69%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (68%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); AIR FORCES (65%); LAYOFFS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 



18 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Waiting for the Other Shoe in Mexico

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
The Mexican stock market has been one of the best performers in the world recently. It is up 52.3 percent this year and is the top performer for the last two and one-half years in the Financial Times world market index.
The troubling fact about the market is that everybody seems to be on the bandwagon and there is scarcely a contrarian to be found. How long can this dramatic run go on? 
''I see 15 to 20 percent earnings growth over the next three years,'' said Robert W. Lovelace, an analyst at Capital International in Los Angeles. He aruges that the price-earnings ratios, now averaging about nine, and the price-to-book value of 1.1, are substantially lower now than when the market was at its peak before the October 1987 crash. A recent eight percent decline, led by Telefonos de Mexico, the telephone company, and by banking stocks, did not shake confidence. And the market rallied two percent Friday as the government proposed allowing foreign investment in brokerage houses.
But Mr. Lovelace is concerned about the lack of concern. ''I worry about the fact that there is nothing to worry about,'' he said.
The rise in the Mexican market this year, while noteworthy, has not been as broad as in the past. Bank stocks, because of the scramble for stock ahead of the Government's plan to privatize the banks, and the stocks popular with foreigners, like Cifra, Telefonos and Kimberly Clarke, have risen more than the average industrial stock.
The main spur to the market has been the debt reduction agreement, finalized in March, between Mexico and its commercial bankers. This restored some confidence to the market and helped bring down interest rates. The move to privatize state companies - especially President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's promise to sell the state banks - also boosted the market. The government has also opened the economy and allowed more participation by foreign investors.
With returning confidence and high interest rates, some Mexicans have brought some of their investments abroad back home. The propsect of a free-trade agreement with the United States buttresses the outlook.
''Things this year in Mexco are kind of coming together,'' said Antoine W. van Agtmael, president of Emerging Markets Management in Washington.
Americans have been part of the rally, with net purchases in Mexico in the first quarter of 1990 totaling $86 million, according to the Securities Industry Association.
The easiest entry to Mexico is through the Mexico Fund, a closed-end country fund which traded Friday at $15.25, near the high for the year. But this might not be a time to buy. The fund's price has not fallen with the Mexican market.
It is also easier now for foreigners to buy Mexican stocks directly. But buying stocks, analysts warn, can be tricky because of the insider trading that has marked the Mexican market in the past. ''It can be like walking into a lion's cage,'' said Mr. van Agtmael. The biggest threat to the market is a major devaluation of the peso. Chrstopher Whalen, a trade and financial analyst in Washington and a critic of the Mexican government, thinks there will be one. He argues that the government's current delicately balanced policy of attracting foreign money with high intertest rates - still in the 32-percent range - on Mexican certificates of deposit could backfire.
A sudden rise in inflation, a drop in oil prices or political discord from next year's mid-term elections could shake confidence and prompt investors to pull their dollars out of Mexico. This could force a major devaluation, spreading losses far and wide.
But such a devaluation, analysts contend, seems unlikely now, and is perhaps unlikely in the longer term as well. They point to the government's recent move to slow down what is known as the ''slide,'' the daily official mini-devaluation of the peso. The slide rate was cut from one peso a day to 80 centavos, about 10 percent, a year.
They argue that this is just a sign that Mr. Salinas is interested in attracting foreign investment. Mr. Whalen sees it as a signal that the government is having trouble attracting enough foreign money, making the economic balance in Mexico more difficult to maintain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); BONDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



19 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Wall Street Shrugs Off Tax Threat

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Are higher taxes just what the economy, and the stock market, need? Wall Street seems to think so.
The economic logic of that thesis proves, if nothing else, that President Nixon's statement that ''we are all Keynesians now'' is no longer true. John Maynard Keynes, for those who have forgotten, thought governments should raise taxes when the economy was booming, and cut them when growth was slow, or nonexistent. 
That opinion was far from conventional wisdom when Lord Keynes was writing. Then, the Wall Street chorus was calling on the Government to ''restore confidence'' by balancing the budget. Franklin Roosevelt won the 1932 election on a promise to do just that. Fortunately he, like President Bush, was not a slave to campaign promises.
Just now, the economy is slow, and consumers have a great reluctance to spend what money they have. But a tax cut to spark some spending just won't do, not with the Government deficit being what it is. The deficit was running at an annual rate of around $150 billion as 1990 began. Now it is at $190 billion and rising.
It is axiomatic that the stock market hates recessions. But share prices leaped on news of Mr. Bush's latest statement, in which he conceded that ''tax revenue increases'' were needed to narrow the deficit. The share prices settled back amid confusion over just what he really meant, but remained firm for the rest of the week. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week up 23.51 points, to 2,880.69. Wall Street, it would seem, hopes this tax hike won't hurt.
The reason for that cheery outlook is a belief that the Federal Reserve won't let a recession happen. ''I think part of the deficit-reduction package will be at least an implicit pledge by the Fed to lower short-term interest rates,'' said Edward Yardeni, the chief economist at Prudential-Bache.
That lowering, coupled with a cut in the capital gains rate that Mr. Bush also wants, is supposed to provide boosts for the economy and the stock and bond markets that will more than offset the dampening effect of higher taxes.
One past market that may have relevance is that of the early 70's. At the moment, notes Mr. Yardeni, the total debt outstanding for consumers, companies and government is growing at an annual rate of just 7.6 percent, the lowest figure since 1971. As it happens, more cash-strapped companies are eliminating dividends than at any time since the same year. The Dow rose 6 percent in 1971, and 15 percent in 1972. But in the following two years, the index fell 40 percent as a severe recession hit.
Before prices collapsed, that market was dominated by the ''nifty 50'' big-growth stocks. These days, some similar stocks are doing well, but so are the smaller technology stocks that dominate the Nasdaq industrial index. The big losers are the interest-sensitive utilities and anything related to real estate.
But the markets retain faith in the Fed to keep things running smoothly. Whether that faith is justified may be the big question for the rest of 1990.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Dow Jones industrials average, June 25-29, 1990; charts: percent increases and loses for different New York based markets, Jan.-June, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (72%); 



20 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Headliners;
Whose Habitat?

 BODY:
Environmentalists, ever wary of President Bush's insistence that he is really one of them, were delighted in mid-June when his Administration declared the spotted owl a threatened species. The Government was expected to follow the move last week with a sweeping plan to control cutting in the old-growth forests that serve as the owl's habitat. Instead the Administration formed a study group, to report to the President by Sept. 1, and called for changing the Endangered Species Act to take into account other endangered life forms - like loggers. Federal officials say saving the owl would cost 28,000 jobs in the Pacific Northwest over the next 10 years. Andy Kerr, conservation director of the Oregon Natural Resources Council, called the Bush proposal ''the Tiananmen Square for American wildlife.'' But Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter said, ''We take the Endangered Species Act seriously and will implement the law faithfully. We have set in motion a process to balance our responsibility in preserving the owl and the forests while protecting the economic lives of American men and women who live and work in the region.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spotted Owl (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: OWLS; ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT (1973); BIRDS; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR) US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); WILDLIFE (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



21 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Without Yeltsin Is the Party Over?

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH he presides over three-fourths of the Soviet land mass and is probably the most popular Communist in the country, Boris N. Yeltsin does not expect a place of honor at his party's quinquennial reunion this week.
When the delegates convene tomorrow for the 28th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the faction allied with Mr. Yeltsin, the President of the Russian republic, will be vastly outnumbered and in some disarray. There is little likelihood that his proposals - such as surrendering the party's organized influence in the army and security police, and parting with much of its accumulated wealth - will be incorporated into party documents, or that Yeltsinites will find seats in the higher party councils.
Yet it is probably fair to say that the immediate future of the Communist Party now depends as much on this consistently underrated politician as it does on anything the congress is likely to do. 
In its contempt for Mr. Yeltsin, the Communist Party establishment is not alone. Many Soviet intellectuals disdain him as a lowbrow and a demagogue. The Bush Administration belittles him as a lightweight, possibly unstable, and certainly an inconvenient disruption to the plans of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Much of the outside world seems to view him as a cartoon Russian, subject to pratfalls and outrageous statements, important mainly as a foil for Mr. Gorbachev.
 
Instinct and Influence
Mr. Yeltsin has always been an instinctual politician with a nose for the political mood. He got on the anti-privilege bandwagon early, and he was the first politician of such stature to call openly for a multi-party system and the legalization of private property.
The surprise is that in his first month as leader of the Russian republic the great populist, the perennial skunk at the Communists' garden party, has begun to seem . . . presidential. Conducting his divided parliament, where only about a third of the deputies can be counted as allies, he has used tact and public pressure to build impressive majorities. He led the parliament to vote sweeping challenges to the central Government (a declaration that Russian laws take precedence over Soviet laws) and to the Communist Party (a resolution that on Russian territory influential party cells are to be outlawed in industrial enterprises, police and army units, the K.G.B. and the criminal justice system). That measure would neutralize much of the Communist autocracy, and render the dithering of the party congress somewhat immaterial.
He has established direct political and trade relations with democratic leaders in Leningrad and Moscow, with the Baltic republics and others, using the lure of Russia's oil wealth to plot a detour around the economic power brokers at the central ministries.
Mr. Yeltsin has made good use of his public status. His televised appeals for a grace period, a ''credit of trust,'' may have helped persuade Russian miners to hold off on a devastating coal strike. If it is true that a market-oriented economic reform depends on the willingness of the workers to accept change, Mr. Yeltsin at the moment may be the man best positioned to bring them along.
Lately, he has begun to press a more problematic theme - Russian pride. Many believe there is a huge untapped political force in the brooding resentment of ethnic, peasant and blue-collar Russians who have seen their traditions, religion and resources ravaged by the Communists. Mr. Gorbachev's reformers, who are mainly what George Wallace used to call pointy-headed intellectuals, have not found an effective way to reach this constituency. The hard-liners, on the other hand, have worked this issue doggedly, appealing in the name of Russian patriotism for iron discipline and a rejection of Western democracy, sometimes adding a crude undercurrent of anti-Semitism.
Mr. Yeltsin, the son of a plowman and the scourge of the party, may be the one man who can cheat the hard-liners out of the Russian vote and deploy it in a more benign direction. At least he seems to have something of the sort in mind with his campaign for Russian sovereignty. He has become an aggressive booster of the Russian Orthodox Church, the main pillar of the Russian spirit, showing up at religious services with television cameras in tow.
He sensed early the dwindling authority of the Communist Party, and has managed (with help from party strategists, who increase his popularity every time they attack him) to remain relatively untainted by his background as a party apparatchik. Now the question is whether he will choose the impending congress as an occasion to quit the party altogether.
If he stays, the party is still in for a prolonged period of erosion of power, with Mr. Yeltsin both leading the assault on party influence and benefiting as power flows from party to government hands. If he leaves, hordes of wavering party members are likely to go with him, leaving behind a party that is shrunken, predominantly conservative, potentially dangerous but powerless to run the country.
''Yeltsin is the detonator,'' said Pavel Voshchanov, a party congress delegate and writer for the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda. ''The disintegration of the party is already inevitable, but if Yeltsin leaves the collapse will come much more quickly.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris N. Yeltsin (Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMIES (71%); 

PERSON: BORIS N YELTSIN (96%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (56%); 



22 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Triple Play;
The Rich Nations Get Richer. And Then?

BYLINE: By LEONARD SILK

 BODY:
The currencies and economies of the two Germanys become one today, solidifying the German role as leader of a bloc of European states that are themselves rushing toward economic union and a closer political federation. And next week, the leaders of the seven strongest industrial democracies - the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada - gather in Houston for an economic summit meeting to survey the problems and opportunities of a world changed in subtle and not-so-subtle ways. It is a world they helped make but never expected to see so soon.
In this world, the Communist threat has collapsed, leaving the Big Three of the world economy - the United States, Japan and Europe -richer and more powerful than ever. But there is an overriding economic issue: how to hold the Western nations together now that they have won.
With the cold war ending, a hot peace among the victors is breaking out as the industrial world, once dominated by the United States, becomes tripolar. In coming decades, the strains and conflicts among Western Europe, Japan and the United States could become chronic. 
These conflicts are already evident in a host of issues: how to break remaining barriers to trade that threaten to split the industrial world into regional trading blocs; how to integrate Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union into the global economic system; how to deal with a polluted environment and ward off the danger of global warming; how to fight the international drug trade; how to stimulate sufficient savings to meet the explosion of demand for capital all over the world, and how to redress the imbalances among the rich industrial countries and the debt-ridden countries of the third world.
And, although it may take years to realize its benefits fully, the peace dividend - resources no longer needed for wars hot or cold - should make the capitalist democracies still stronger by enabling them to exploit more completely their basic advantage: the ability to capitalize on the individual talents and drives of their people and businesses to innovate, invest and thus grow richer.
The peace dividend promises to be greatest for the United States, simply because it has been carrying the heaviest military burdens of the West. Partly because of those burdens, the United States has slipped from being the world's largest creditor nation to becoming its largest debtor, and has lost ground in world markets to Germany and Japan, its two strongest allies - and former enemies.
In 1989, the United States ran a deficit of $106 billion in its balance of trade and payments - a total roughly matched by the $57.2 billion surplus of Japan and the $52.8 billion surplus of the Federal Republic of Germany. The outlook for 1990 is for an even greater disequilibrium in trade deficits and surpluses.
But this disequilibrium is by no means due only to the differences in military burdens. The United States's large budget deficits and low savings rate have worsened its trade deficits and made it increasingly dependent on an inflow of foreign capital to finance its rising debt and its economic growth, which has now slowed to a crawl.
The most startling economic event of the last week, President Bush's call for an increase in tax revenues, was triggered by the worsening budget deficit outlook and the need to break the deadlock with Congress; Mr. Bush himself acknowledged these heightened pressures for a new look at taxes, saying, ''Like Abraham Lincoln said, I'll think anew.' '' But, as his chief aide for the Houston summit, Under Secretary of State Richard T. McCormack, stressed in an interview, Mr. Bush's decision to act on taxes was also linked to America's weakened external position and its strained relations with Japan. The Japaneseclaimed some credit for persuading Mr. Bush that he simply had to take tougher fiscal action if the American trade deficit were to be cut.
Mr. Bush's aides say many other factors were involved in his decision, including his sense of economic stewardship for the nation's welfare and his belief that the United States had better get its act together and hustle lest it see the heels of its Japanese and European competitors as they race ahead into the future.
The United States still has the world's biggest economy, with a gross national product of more than $5 trillion compared to Japan's $2.8 trillion and a unified Germany's $1.5 trillion. But much of the total G.N.P. gap is due to population differences, with the United States numbering 249 million compared to Japan's 123 million and one Germany's 78 million. The 12 nations of the European Community number some 325 million, not counting the 16 million East Germans who joined the Western economy today, or other people in Eastern Europe who may join up fairly soon.
At present exchange rates, per capita gross national product of the United States is a bit less than Japan's, but ahead of unified Germany, now weighted down by the newly incorporated East Germans. But the West Germans will be investing scores of billions in the East, and productivity there should catch up fast.
The outlook for the American position versus the other two has been worsened by a disparity among their investment rates; the United States's rate of gross investment has been running at about 15 percent, West Germany's at 20 percent and Japan's at 32 percent. In addition, the levels and quality of education and labor skills, as well as the intensity of research and development, will also play vital roles in the outcome of the growing rivalry among the major industrial countries. A United States running huge budget deficits is hard pressed to deal with its domestic problems or lead internationally.
And, without fear of the Soviets to hold them together, the United States, Japan and Germany could spin out of their common orbit, pulling other countries into North American, Pacific and European blocs. So, as Robert Hormats, an investment banker who served as a top Presidential adviser at earlier economic summits, puts it, ''The cardinal job of the Houston summit is to keep centrifugal forces from pulling the allies apart.''
Hopes that those centrifugal forces can be resisted were raised by the announcement last week that the United States and Japan had agreed on a trade pact designed to discourage excess spending in the United States and stimulate foreign business in Japan. But doubts about whether the accord will be enforced persisted in Congress. The possibility remains that the Big Three of the economic world could still become inward-looking zones, focusing their trade and investment among countries in their own backyards and fighting each other for advantages elsewhere - in the third world, the Middle East and the present and former Communist countries.
 
Differences Over Gorbachev
That last issue has surfaced in advance of the Houston summit meeting. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany has been pushing for a much stronger Western effort to support President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's efforts to save the Soviet economy from an even worse collapse. But the United States, with its budgetary problems, has been arguing that a large aid effort for the Soviet Union at this point would pour money down the drain and would even be counterproductive, because it might enable Mr. Gorbachev to avoid pressing for the reforms that are crucial if foreign aid is to accomplish anything.
The same issue emerged last week at the European Community's summit conference in Dublin, where Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain proposed that a team of economic experts prepare a report on what aid the Soviet Union needs and how best to make it effective. Proponents of quick help for the Soviets believe that if the West waits for reforms to come before it helps, the aid will be too late, and an important opportunity for furthering Soviet democracy will have been lost. The Houston summit meeting is likely to reverberate with intense discussion of this issue.
But the Soviet issue, important as it is, does not pose the most dangerous threat to relations among the industrial democracies; the most serious danger is that of conflict over trade. The immediate threat is of a collapse of the current round of international trade negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round. These are aimed at knocking down barriers to trade in copyrights, patents and other intellectual property, agricultural products, and financial and other services, areas crucial to binding the modern world together.
A collapse or failure of these talks would result if there were no breakthrough on agriculture. The Europeans, heading for unity and needing popular support in coming elections, are shrinking from taking on their own farm interests. The Americans say that if the Europeans don't yield on cutting barriers to trade in farm products, then nothing can be done to get the support of either the United States or third world countries on other issues. The United States intends to hang very tough on the agricultural issue.
Thus the rich industrial powers are at a crossroad on the extent to which they will work together or split. The decisions they are making now in the trade talks, the summit discussions and the continuing deliberations over the military and economic future of Europe could set patterns for decades to come - whether nations will become more closely intertwined or divide into competing regions, and how fast the world economy will grow or regress. Ultimately, these patterns could affect the well-being of all people, rich and poor, in all countries.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: populations, gross domestic product, per capita gross domestic product, balance of payments, savings as a percentage of gross domestic product, 1989; graph: estimated percentage of government budget spent on defense for European Community, United States, Japan, 1988 (Sources: European Community; International Monetary Fund; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; World Factbook, 1989; Congressional Budget Office (pg. 1); graphs: population and gross domestic products of a United Germany and the European Community, including West Germany, 1989 (Sources: European Community; PlanEcon; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development); drawing (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (66%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX); EUROPE; UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; FRANCE; ITALY; GERMANY; ITALY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); TRENDS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD



23 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Is Unreasonable Way to Bail Out Savings and Loans

 BODY:
I was startled and dismayed by ''The Bailout: No Savagery Required,'' your June 22 editorial supporting Government borrowing as the appropriate way to deal with the bailout of bankrupt savings and loans institutions. Borrowing may be politically expedient; it is, however, wrong, from both an economic and moral point of view. The straightforward, and least damaging way to deal with this fiasco, is to pay off the $130 billion loss with a temporary three- to four-year surcharge on income taxes. 
The economics are simple: (1) Borrowing will turn a $130 billion loss into a $500 billion drain over 20 to 30 years. It will maintain pressure on the credit markets and lead to higher interest rates. It will add $10 billion to $15 billion annuallly in interest costs to the Federal budget deficit, when interest costs constitute, after defense, the largest Federal expenditure. It will require continued high inflows of foreign capital. It will squeeze out badly needed domestic programs. (2) A three- to four-year temporary tax surcharge will eliminate $300 billion to $400 billion in interest costs and contribute to lower interest rates and capital costs. This will foster economic growth. The tax will not have negative economic impact because the bailout is basically a transfer program from taxpayers to depositors. (3) A basic economic principle justifies borrowing only to pay for assets with a useful life. Nothing is more remote from that definition than borrowing to finance losses that have already been incurred.
The moral issue is even simpler. Borrowing burdens the next generation with the repayment of our foolishness and burdens lower-income Americans with the interest costs. The income tax puts the burden where it belongs: on the present generation and on higher-income Americans.
In the damaging legacy of the 1980's, excessive speculation and borrowing will play a prominent role. Unfortunately, your support for borrowing to bail out the savings and loans is, along with your previous support for the use of junk bonds in the private sector, consistent with that legacy. Your voice is, for many of us, the voice of reason. That, however, requires the support of reason in Government financing and private financing. Excessive borrowing is not reasonable.
 
FELIX G. ROHATYN
 New York, June 25, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BAILOUTS (91%); BANK FAILURES (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G



24 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: A Mexico Trade Pact Will Cost 2 Million Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Boost for Both Countries,'' your June 16 editorial endorsing the proposed United States-Mexico free-trade agreement, shows callous disregard for the livelihoods of two million United States workers in the fiber, textile and apparel industries.
So what, you say, if a free-trade agreement with Mexico forces United States textile and steel workers to ''scramble for new jobs at lower wages.'' How can anyone contend that swapping $7 an hour wages in the United States for $7 a day wages in Mexico is in the best interest of workers in either country, especially with no evidence that lower manufacturing costs reach the consumer.
You point out that the agreement would encourage the flow of money from the United States to Mexico, ''thereby creating desperately needed jobs.'' And making thousands of Americans desperate for jobs.
Greater manufacturing unemployment is no problem, you say, because ''this country can afford to provide its jobless with generous assistance.'' This begs the question. Such assistance, if widespread, becomes burial insurance for this major manufacturing sector.
 
DONALD R. HUGHES
President, American Textile
Manufacturers Institute
 Washington, June 22, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TEXTILE MANUFACTURERS INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TEXTILE MANUFACTURERS INSTITUTE AMERICAN TEXTILE MANUFACTURERS INSTITUTE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TEXTILES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TEXTILES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); FABRIC MILLS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); LAYOFFS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: HUGHES, DONALD R



25 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Forecast: Cloudy;
Bush Moves His Lips But Not His Troops

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
BENEATH their public optimism about striking a deal to reduce the budget deficit, the negotiators from the White House and Congress are uneasy. President Bush's surprising concession last week that higher taxes would be needed to cut the deficit got the budget talks started again. But even the President's reversal of his ''no new taxes'' pledge will not translate quickly into an agreement on increased taxes and reduced spending.
''It would be a foolish person who would think the odds are in favor of getting this done,'' said a top Congressional leader who would not allow his name to be used because he promised the President and his colleagues in Congress that his public statements would be upbeat.
Senator Wyche Fowler Jr. of Georgia, a key Democrat in the talks, said that finding a way to trim the deficit was ''a whale of a political challenge as well as a substantive challenge.'' The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, called the task ''daunting.'' 
A senior Presidential adviser said he was not sure most Congressional Republicans would ever vote for a budget deal that raised taxes, even if it had Mr. Bush's endorsement. Within hours of the President's turnabout last Tuesday, 90 of the 176 Republican representatives had signed a letter to him saying, ''A tax increase is unacceptable.'' The authors of the letter stopped collecting signatures once they had a majority. All sides agree that no budget agreement can become law unless a majority of the lawmakers in both parties in both houses support it; to win the most difficult political fight of his Presidency, Mr. Bush must begin to twist arms hard.
 
Correcting Mixed Signals
The main problem, Mr. Foley and the White House official agreed, is that the public has been told by Washington for years that the economy is strong and growing, and voters see no reason now why taxes should be raised. The economy, in fact, is, as the President said at his news conference Friday, sluggish. But the unemployment rate is reasonably low. Inflation is no worse than it has been for years. And few economists in or out of Government believe an economic crisis is at hand.
If that is the case, why did President Bush so abruptly abandon the pledge against taxes that was the centerpiece of his election campaign and his first 16 months in office? At his news conference, the President suggested that he had no choice, and he took a first step toward trying to draw a connection in the minds of voters among the budget deficit, the national economy and their own day-to-day lives.
Without action on the budget, he said, the rules of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced budget law will kick in, and spending will be slashed automatically. ''The potential results,'' he said, ''are Draconian cuts in defense, student grants and a wide array of other necessary domestic services.''
The budget deficit for the next fiscal year is now projected at $160 billion, not counting additional spending for the savings and loan bailout. Including the bailout money, the projected deficit is well over $200 billion. Even the lower figure is nearly $100 billion above the $64 billion deficit limit set by the law. If the target is not met or the ceiling not raised, cuts of 25 percent in military outlays and 37 percent in most domestic programs would be mandatory.
The gap is now too large for Mr. Bush to pretend that it can be closed without higher taxes. And the financial markets and the country's trading partners abroad could be expected to rebel if the President and Congress simply ducked the issue by changing the law rather than addressing the problem.
The President seems to have had another reason to act as well. Mr. Bush has been advised that the only obstacle to his re-election in 1992 would be a sour economy two years from now. The best way to guard against that, he has been told, is to drive down interest rates. And the only way to get lower interest rates is to reduce the budget deficit.
In this respect, the President's decision to renege on his pledge against higher taxes was aimed not only at Washington politicians but also at the Federal Reserve and Wall Street financial markets. Administration economists are confident that a serious deficit-reduction deal would lead to a reduction in interest rates of at least one percentage point and possibly more.
After Mr. Bush's statement Tuesday, the budget negotiators - Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady; Richard G. Darman, the budget director; John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and about 20 Congressional leaders from both parties - returned to the bargaining table for three days in a cramped, windowless room just off the Senate floor. But when Congress adjourned for its Fourth of July recess, they were hardly closer to a settlement.
The one sign of progress was that both sides were saying publicly for the first time that any agreement would have to include tax increases, the Republicans' bugaboo, and cuts in popular social programs like Social Security and Medicare that are dear to Democrats' political hearts. Saying that, however, is easy compared with deciding on which taxes to raise and which cuts to make.
Wherever they turn, they face opposition. Substantial spending reductions are probably impossible without trims in Social Security and Medicare. They account for about 35 percent of the budget now, and the proportion is expanding rapidly. The question is how to tackle them without arousing the elderly, the nation's most potent demographic political force. No one favors cutting benefits outright, but some way must be found to slow their growth if a budget compromise is to be reached.
Democrats prefer taxes that hit the rich hard and spare the middle class. Republicans, if they have to accept taxes at all, favor new taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. Northerners and Midwesterners, regardless of party, would not mind a higher gasoline tax, and legislators from those states reflect that view. Southerners and Westerners, on the other hand, rely more on cars, and lawmakers from those states oppose a gasoline tax. They might vote for one on imported oil, which would lift the price of domestic oil as well, but the burden would fall on consumers outside the oil states. On top of all that, there are deep divisions over President Bush's proposed reduction in the capital gains tax.
The best hope for a settlement appears to be to tie all the painful compromises into one large package and present it for an up or down vote, avoiding votes on the individual elements. If such an agreement cannot be enacted, there are only three alternatives, none of them attractive.
The first would be to allow the across-the-board spending cuts required on Oct. 1 by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law to go into effect. The consequences are unthinkable economically and politically, and few if any politicians advocate this option. Vital programs like food inspection, the border patrol, the Federal prison system and air traffic control would cease to function adequately. Students with Federal aid would have to drop out of school. Roads and bridges would go unrepaired. The economy would collapse.
A more reasonable possibility is to let the cuts become effective for a month or so, which would cause no real damage, and return to Washington after the November election to try to work out a solution. Some lawmakers running this fall are for taking this tack. But there is no guarantee that an agreement to cut the deficit could be reached even after the election. More serious, a lame-duck session cannot last more than a few weeks, and a budget deal could be killed by a Senate filibuster. No one is confident that any agreement could win the 60 votes needed to break such a filibuster. And the result would be that the budget cuts would stay in effect long enough to wreak havoc.
Finally, the politicians could abandon the notion of cutting the deficit and simply rewrite the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law to set the deficit limit higher. That, however, would send a signal to the financial markets that Washington was not serious about controlling the deficit. Furthermore, it would break the pledge made to the European and Japanese allies that the United States would lower its deficit to stop draining investments from abroad and improve the United States' position in international commerce. If the politicians took this route and, in Speaker Foley's words, ''simply punted,'' interest rates would probably soar and the trade balance worsen.
The result might well be a recession. That is what George Bush is trying to avoid.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



26 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Serious, Not Savage, on the Deficit

 BODY:
Tax revenue increases. With those three words, President Bush last week ushered in feverish budget negotiations. Proposals that were taboo on Monday - like taxes on Social Security benefits or cuts in Medicare - suddenly became possible on Tuesday. Swinging into action, Congressional leaders promised to cut next year's budget deficit by $55 billion or more. 
Responsible budget talk is long overdue. But it's also important that Congress not go overboard. Yes, the deficit has to be cut, and substantially. But that need does not justify throwing a fragile economy into recession or starving vital social programs. More deficit reduction is not necessarily better. Revised estimates, incorporating the escalated costs of the savings and loan bailout, indicate that to satisfy the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit target for next year, the deficit must be cut by about $200 billion. That much would be ruinous. So Congress will revise the Gramm-Rudman law and set new targets. A consensus seems to be building for a cut between $50 billion and $60 billion.
Yet a deficit reduction of that magnitude would be twice the size of reductions in recent years - and would fall on an economy that's already sagging, possibly verging on recession. Those who call for cuts this big assume that the Federal Reserve Board would respond by lowering short-term interest rates. That, it is argued, would stimulate the economy and offset the impact of tax hikes and spending cuts.
Maybe. But the Fed has no magical formulas or theories. No one knows for sure how to fine-tune monetary policy. If the Fed erred, it could trigger inflation.
At the same time, Congress knows it can safely reduce the deficit by $30 billion or so; it has done so in recent years. By keeping the reduction in the $30 billion range, Congress would make it easier for the Fed to keep the economy on an even keel.
There's another reason not to go overboard. A reduction in excess of $50 billion would require deep program cuts, probably in excess of $25 billion.
Is there $25 billion to $30 billion in waste? Of course. The problem is that one voter's waste is another voter's welfare. Much of the undisputed waste, like the welfare for the rich involved in agriculture subsidies, is politically entrenched.
Forced to make dramatic cuts by next year, Congress will be tempted to savage truly meritorious programs like aid to Eastern Europe and investments in infrastructure and children.
Wholly apart from these political concerns, the purpose of controlling Federal deficits is to free money for private investment. If the Government borrows less, businesses can borrow more and invest in new plant and equipment. That's how to make the economy grow.
But it makes very little difference whether the Government borrows $20 billion more or less this year. Whether it borrows $20 billion less each year for a decade matters a lot. That's why a long-term plan of steady deficit reduction is better than a dramatic one-year burst. Since 1983, Congress has managed to lower the deficit, measured in relation to the size of the economy, by half. That required nothing draconian. Annual cuts of $30 billion or so will continue to do the trick.
The important point is that the way the deficit is lowered is ultimately more important than the amount. Public investment can be every bit as important for economic growth as private investment. Congress will improve neither economy nor society by lowering deficits at the expense of highways, research and healthy, educated children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TAX LAW (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); STARVATION (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



27 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12, Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4831 words

HEADLINE: THE PRIME OF PAT SCHROEDER

BYLINE: BY Susan Ferraro; Susan Ferraro is a contributor to the Hers column and other sections of The New York Times.

 BODY:
AT THE ASSEMBLY POINT FOR DENVER'S 1990 ST. PATRICK'S DAY Parade, a tall, slim woman resplendent in a Kelly-green coat and a glittery, green top hat darted through the genial confusion of skirling bagpipes, Irish wolfhounds, green balloons and teen-age beauty queens showing more goose bumps than cleavage.
''Top o' the mornin' to ya!'' she called to onlookers, her face stretched tight in a wide grin. ''Hey, Mrs. Schroeder!'' a man shouted. Heads swiveled and Patricia Schroeder, Denver's nine-term Congresswoman known for her witty one-liners, her fierce dedication to family issues and her brief 1987 exploratory campaign for President, which ended in a flood of tears, stepped eagerly toward the crowd.
''You came to my class to judge Halloween costumes - it must have been in '74,'' a young father told her. Schroeder grinned. ''We thought you'd be wearing a green bunny suit,'' an official teased, alluding to the Easter bunny suit she may or may not have worn in 1979 to the Great Wall of China. ''Well, I thought of it,'' she replied mildly. 
Perched on the back seat of a convertible for the parade, Schroeder waved to the crowd, amid shouts of ''Hey, Pat!'' and ''Pro-choice!'' Blinky the Clown, a local children's show celebrity, introduced her to the television audience and, off camera, asked Schroeder to autograph her new book, ''Champion of the Great American Family.''
As the parade came to an end and Schroeder headed for a small gray sedan, a passerby shouted, ''When are you going to run for President?'' Schroeder's stride didn't falter. ''Hey, great to see ya,'' she said, flashing the grin.
Schroeder had reason to duck the question. Once before, she had been caught unawares. In 1987, she was running to catch a flight from Washington to Denver when an Associated Press reporter asked her if she was considering a Presidential race now that Gary Hart had dropped out.
''I feel I have to look at it seriously,'' she said. By the time her plane landed, reporters were waiting. Her husband, Jim - one of her principal advisers - in Bangkok on business at the time, found out about his wife's plans in The International Herald Tribune.
Moreover, after 18 years in Congress, she has a lot to lose. Now the most senior woman in Congress, an incumbent who won her last election with 70 percent of the vote, Schroeder has become part of the Establishment without sacrificing either the family issues she stands for or her independent style, both of which have always set her at odds with it. Long a darling of liberals, she is increasingly welcome within the business community, as was evident when she spoke to Du Pont Company employees last December. The audience of mostly middle-level managers listened raptly as she talked about the country's military budget: ''Power issues are things like -in the post-INF environment, should the United States have the D-5 missile, the cruise missile, the MX missile, the rail garrison, or all of the above, some of the above, none of the above?'' And about the struggles parents face: ''Toddlers don't have political-action committees, they don't pay you honorariums if you drop by their child-care center, and they don't vote.'' And about changing our national priorities: the real issues are the national debt, more equitable allocation of defense costs with allies, and ''getting our educational resources in place so we are ready to compete.''
In Congress, Schroeder sits on the House Armed Services Committee (where she is fifth-ranking Democrat) and eight other committees and subcommittees; she is chairwoman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Installations and Facilities. She heads a task force on how tax policies affect families and she is a Deputy Whip. She co-heads both the Democratic Caucus's Task Force on National Security and the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues, a group that has grown, largely by her design, to number 150 members of Congress - a sizable lobbying force.
That kind of influence is useful to a woman who has made a career out of changing systems she doesn't like. Since her election to Congress in 1972, Schroeder has almost single-handedly wrenched family issues - child care and education, pension reform for widows and former spouses, flextime in the work place for parents and women's economic equity - out of the dim peripheries of campaign rhetoric and into the political mainstream.
Given the sudden surge of women in politics, the time may be right for a Schroeder Presidential campaign, though it would presumably take party pols by surprise: few mention Schroeder when the subject of the 1992 campaign comes up. Nationally, 10 women, including Ann Richards of Texas and Dianne Feinstein of California, are running for governor in 1990. Five women, one an incumbent, are running for the United States Senate. Three of the five are members of the House, where 24 women are running for re-election and another 2o or so are running for seats now held by men. Women are seeking office in unprecedented numbers at the local level as well, according to the National Organization for Women.
Many are answering what Schroeder calls the ''wake-up call'' of the Supreme Court's Webster decision in 1989, which gave states the right to restrict abortions. Limitations enacted in Pennsylvania remain the strictest to date; although the number of women seeking election to the Pennsylvania State Legislature has historically been almost nonexistent, some 90 women announced candidacies this year, and about 70 made it past primaries. The influx of women into the permanent work force means that so-called ''women's issues,'' like child care and health services for the elderly, have an impact on the national economy. Political pioneers like Schroeder, Feinstein and Lynn Martin (R.-Ill.), Schroeder's colleague in the House who is going after Paul Simon's Senate seat, have been in politics for some time. They can take aim at higher office and talk about, for instance, fiscal policy without encountering sexist condescension.
Schroeder is often rebuked for ''running as a woman.'' Her reply, complete with practiced, elaborate shrug, is: ''Do I have a choice?''
At a podium or on the House floor, her searing wit can vaporize an opponent in the 15 seconds suitable for a sound bite: it was she who labeled Reagan ''the Teflon President,'' she who called defense contractors ''the welfare queens of the 80's.'' Behind the scenes she does a surprising amount of homework and displays a shrewd, even lethal political savvy. Over the years she has helped bump not one, but two, chairmen of the House Armed Services Committee.
The woman who manages all this - who seems to inhabit a blur of energy punctuated by a toothy smile - is a curious blend of effusive friendliness and private reserve, a Harvard-trained lawyer who relies on instinct and common sense. On the hustings, she is personal, spontaneous and direct; she delights in cooing babies and seems genuinely moved by the stories people tell her.
Ask about her own struggles, however, and she retreats behind a relentless cheerfulness. ''She's not introspective publicly,'' says Dan Buck, her top staffer in Washington, who has known Schroeder 18 years. ''A lot of it is hidden. You let personal things out and people are gonna grab 'em. . . .''
That wariness may be due in part to the extreme reactions Schroeder evokes. To admirers, she has the angularity of Katharine Hepburn, an Irish grin reminiscent of the Kennedys, a passionate speaking style and laughing eyes; her occasional silliness - celebrating the ''little holidays'' like Valentine's Day, signing notes with a smile face drawn inside the ''P'' - proves her lack of pretension. They think of her as a woman warrior, a leader.
To critics, she has a ''hard'' look, a grin that is really a grimace, a nasal-voiced delivery through clenched jaws and eyes that disappear behind a squint; her signature is too cute, her girlish celebrations ridiculous. They think of her as a lightweight.
The reality is that Schroeder is a driven politician who smiles too hard. She makes the complicated ideas behind inventive legislation look easy, maybe too easy. Her preference for simple, crowd-pleasing sentences - the one-liners that spin so well onto the 11 o'clock news - belies and often undercuts Schroeder's seriousness in a job that, for her, is as much about changing national priorities as representing Colorado's First Congressional district.
Off the campaign trail, in committee hearings, she seems to revel in complexity and detail. She serves as head of the Armed Services Committee's panel on Defense Burden Sharing, a term that is Washingtonese for the policy that results in billions of dollars the United States spends defending financially secure allies, and that, she says, has helped Japan, Canada and Germany to become powerful trade competitors. Relieved of the financial drain of their own defense, she points out, these countries have invested in their work force - with programs for education, health care, and even, in some parts of Europe, mandated ''spa leave'' for workers.
Schroeder proposes alternatives: other developed nations should contribute amounts of their gross national products proportionately equal to what the United States contributes, to help alleviate nonmilitary world threats like the destruction of the environment and overpopulation. (The Japanese, she suggests, would do an ''excellent'' job on family planning in Asia.)
AT A RECENT HEARING OF SCHROEDER'S Subcommittee on Military Installations and Facilities, she wore a tomato-red dress and a wide-shouldered royal blue sweater; her bright, insouciant style seemed to dominate a room full of military uniforms and dark business suits. But it was obvious that she'd absorbed the implications, political and otherwise, of the material to be discussed that day.
Brig. Gen. Wayne T. Adams, of the Marine Corps, began his comments with pleasantries: ''We all thank you for your past support, especially regarding the quality of life and importance of taking care of our troops,'' he said, addressing Schroeder directly. ''Only the accomplishment of the mission is more important.'' He was flanked by a rear admiral, two major generals, a brigadier general and a spokesman from the office of the Secretary of Defense; under the witness table, some highly polished shoes danced nervously. Schroeder's questions about the 1991 military construction budget were brief but to the point:
Given growing civilian intolerance for training maneuvers in the German countryside, ''Why are we there?'' Could the committee have a list of such maneuvers from five years ago? ''We would like to go through it, specifically thing by thing, so that will help us as we make some decisions.''
Why is the United States funding a new base for the F-16 bomber in Crotone, ''a few miles from Italy's kidnap capital?''
About money set aside to build chapels and family centers on foreign bases: ''Why? That's outrageous, I would think! You haven't requested it, but you're going to. . . ?'' (''Yessir - uh, ma'am,'' Rear Adm. David E. Bottorff gulped in reply, glancing too late at the sign he'd taped in front of him that said ''Madame Chairwoman.'') ''Let me also note why we are putting the first follow-on MX rail garrison in Speaker Foley's district?'' she said, referring to one of the first controversial installations housing the rail-born MX missile, which is scheduled for House Speaker Thomas S. Foley's Washington state district. ''There wouldn't be any politics involved, would there? You're not trying to solicit more support for rail garrisons?'' Yet for all her military expertise, Schroeder is best known for family issues. Two years ago she put together the ''Great American Family Tour,'' a series of presentations on child-care issues with the pediatrician T. Berry Brazelton and Gary David Goldberg, the executive producer of ''Family Ties,'' who once ran a day-care facility. She credits the interest the tour generated with getting candidates in the 1988 Presidential election to take child care seriously. She was a primary sponsor of the House's companion bill to the Senate's Act for Better Child Care Services (the A.B.C. bill). She lobbied personally for the bill and coordinated support through the Caucus on Women's Issues. In March, House Speaker Foley guided the bill to passage in the House, 265-145.
Another bill she pushed for with increasing fervor in 1989 and early 1990 was her Family and Medical Leave Act, which gives both male and female workers a minimum amount of job-protected, unpaid leave at the birth or adoption of a child, or for serious but temporary family illness. She first proposed it in 1985, after developing ''issues sheets'' on the subject with her staff. Not everyone was pleased: ''To hear the Chamber of Commerce talk about it, you'd think we were Communists,'' says Dan Buck. ''In Washington the politicians say, 'There go the people - let's get in front of 'em!' '' Schroeder says. She operates on the assumption that, after a while, the message will trickle up to the politicians. As she had with the child-care bill, she lobbied for the family-leave bill in Congress and took it directly to the voters in dozens of speeches. When President Bush said he would veto ''any kind of maternity-leave bill,'' she accused him of ''coming out against motherhood.'' The bill passed the House on May 10, 287-187. The companion bill passed the Senate by a voice vote on June 14. Within hours after the vote, White House officials reaffirmed the President's intention to veto the measure ''as soon as it reaches his desk.''
Long adept at linking domestic issues to foreign policy, Schroeder doubts the ''peace dividend'' will materialize: ''It's now you see it - blink, blink - now you don't,'' she says. But if it does, she thinks it should be ''more broadly defined,'' to include the Department of Energy (where much of the budget goes into nuclear weapons) and the Central Intelligence Agency.
''We've got so much in the intelligence budget it makes you gag - who are we gonna spy on, Albania?'' she snorts. She believes a $70 billion cut in defense spending is possible. Half of that amount should go toward the deficit, the rest into education. ''I think it's absolute garbage that young people who have the ability of passing the tests can't go to school because their dad doesn't have the money,'' she argues vehemently. ''How are we gonna compete in the 21st century?''
Schroeder's voting record is as independent as her style. In 1989 she voted against positions taken by President Bush more than any other member of the House (79 percent of the time), but among the Colorado delegation, she is also known for not voting with fellow Democrats on ''party unity'' votes, in which a majority of Democrats oppose a majority of Republicans. Though a liberal, she is also one of the most fiscally conservative members of the House, according to the National Taxpayer's Union - ''Jack Kemp just hates it when I mention that,'' she says, giggling. Not surprisingly, she is known in the Congress as a ''lone wolf,'' not a compliment.
PARTLY BECAUSE OF this independence, Schroeder relies heavily on her staff members in Denver and Washington, some of whom have worked for her for their entire careers. She also relies, less formally, on Jim Schroeder, the amiable, low-key man she married almost 28 years ago when the two were students at Harvard Law School. He was the one who first urged her to run for Congress in 1972 in what was supposed to be a hopeless but honorable race. When she won, he abandoned his partnership in a Denver law firm and his own political ambitions (a liberal Democrat, he once ran for office in Denver) to go to Washington: ''I had no alternative,'' he says simply. Often ''the first line of defense,'' as he says, at home when their children were small, he eventually became a partner at Kaplan, Russin & Vecchi, a Washington law firm with a sizable international practice. Jim Schroeder, a founder of the Denis Thatcher Society, for men married to powerful women (their motto is ''Yes, dear'') downplays his influence on his wife's career today: ''When I go home at night I don't want to discuss my cases, she doesn't discuss what happened in committee.'' But when asked to name her boss's ''most trusted adviser,'' Andrea Camp, Pat Schroeder's press secretary, instantly names him.
In 1987 Jim flew home from Bangkok to manage his wife's unexpected exploratory bid for President. In a campaign in which the eventual victor talked about the ''vision thing'' but settled for television visuals - Schroeder had vision to spare. Fueled by junk food (''I'm turning my body into a hazardous waste dump''), sometimes catching only a few hours of sleep a night, her theme was ''Rendezvous with Reality.''
She talked about the environment, arms control, the need for more jobs, and defense burden sharing. Her team, mostly made up of volunteers, worked enthusiastically to raise money. The press loved her: she was called Snow White and the other Democratic contenders the Seven Dwarfs, she said the Reagan Administration thought arms control was ''deodorant.'' In a September 1987 Time magazine poll, Schroeder led the other Democratic candidates on matters of who would best manage the economy, which candidate people would be ''proud'' to have as President, and whom they would trust.
Yet the same poll found that only 9 percent of respondents named Schroeder their ''first choice'' (26 percent named Jesse Jackson; 11 percent, Michael S. Dukakis). And a poll sponsored by the National Women's Political Caucus showed that roughly 30 percent of the population felt that a woman, any woman, would be a ''worse'' President than a man. By September Schroeder had raised only about $850,000 of the $2 million she said she would need by that point to run. She would decide whether to continue by the end of the month.
Two days before her scheduled announcement, Jim Schroeder wrote his wife a ''neutral'' memo, listing pros and cons. Then he got three phone calls. He says an executive of a Texas oil and gas organization told him: ''We're ready to go, we need a Westerner, we need somebody like your wife; let me know what we can do.'' The pollster Lou Harris said: ''Your wife's already number three and I can promise that by Iowa . . . New Hampshire, she'll be number two.''
Bill Dunfey, the ex-Democratic chairman of New Hampshire, told him: ''We're ready up here, let me know what you want us to do.''
But the decision, ultimately, was hers. On September 28, she announced her withdrawal. Her late start was a major difficulty, she said; many key people had already pledged support to other candidates. And she cited the dehumanizing process of campaigning on the national level: ''I could not figure out how to run and not be separated from those I serve.''
But her words were largely ignored, because when her listeners grasped her intent and groaned, she cried. In an astonishingly intimate public moment, she leaned back toward Jim and choked. He gave her a handkerchief. She cried some more. She finished her speech and threw herself into his arms.
''When Reagan left town, the reporters following him were in hip-waders - he was bawling all the time,'' says Dan Buck. ''Bush says he cries at movies - he probably gave 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit?' three hankies.'' John Sununu ended up crying and embracing his wife during his farewell speech as governor to the New Hampshire Legislature. ''He bawled his head off,'' Buck adds. Still, conservatives felt she had displayed a dangerous emotionalism, and liberals were embarrassed.
Schroeder herself did not apologize, and explained only that she was ''human.'' But she cracked jokes: that she could make a fortune advertising Kleenex. And she continues to bring it up - for example, in a skit before the Washington Press Club Foundation last January - if only to shrug it off as unimportant.
PATRICIA NELL Scott was born in Portland, Ore., in the summer of 1940, the first child of Lee and Bernice Scott. He was a licensed pilot, she a first-grade teacher; the hospital bill came to $53.35 and the Scotts, who had grown up on farms in Nebraska during the Depression, paid it in two installments.
They were Democrats, with populism in their blood: Lee's father was an Irish immigrant who had served with the three-time Democratic Presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan in the Nebraska State Legislature. They taught Pat and her younger brother, Mike - now a Denver attorney - to be independent and responsible and to manage their own allowance for clothes and trinkets; both children became licensed pilots, Pat by the age of 15.
Her early years were not always easy. Pat had crossed eyes, a condition known as amblyopia. She outgrew it, but the taunts of other children hurt: ''With a patch over one eye, I wasn't exactly the number-one choice for kickball.'' The woman known for her brilliant smile often quotes the advice her father gave her: ''Never frown at your enemies. Smile - it scares the hell out of them.''
Harder still, the family moved often. By the age of 3 Pat learned how to make friends: she lined up her toys on the sidewalk and told her mother, ''This ought to get 'em.'' ''I was always the one that was trying to get in,'' she says. ''But in a way, it's one of the things people struggle with all their lives - to define themselves. If you move a lot, then you define yourself.''
She graduated from the University of Minnesota in three years, magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, with a major in history and minors in philosophy and political science. At Harvard Law School, which she entered in 1961, she was one of 19 women in a class of 554.
A male classmate told Schroeder she ought to be ashamed of taking a man's place. She found friends anyway - on her terms: ''They were all guys who had been in the service for three years - y'know, I was a pilot, they were pilots,'' she recalls. ''When you find the real people, it's ten times more fun.'' One of the ex-servicemen was Jim Schroeder, who had gone into the Navy after graduating from Princeton. ''We hit it off pretty well,'' he recalls laconically. They were married in 1962.
Pat Schroeder wanted children, but pregnancies were difficult. ''Some people think of it as a nine-month cruise,'' she says. ''It isn't.'' While she was pregnant with her first child, a gas leak in the house almost killed the couple, and it was months before they were sure that the baby was not affected. (Scott Schroeder, a 1988 graduate of Georgetown University, now works in Washington.) A second pregnancy ended grievously at seven months when Schroeder lost twins. She had felt something was wrong all along and had suffered bleeding, but her doctor dismissed her concerns and told her she was ''high-strung.'' ''Most of all I was angry at myself,'' the woman who later became a champion of underdog issues has written. ''Here I was, a trained lawyer, letting a doctor convince me I had no right to question his judgment about my pregnancy and my baby. He intimidated me and made me feel powerless.'' In 1970 she delivered her daughter, Jamie, now a junior at Princeton, without complications, but was rushed back to the hospital with life-threatening bleeding that lasted for six weeks.
Jim juggled child care for a 4-year-old and a newborn, went to the office, and worried about Pat; Pat recalls him having a recurring nightmare of driving to work but being unable to go into the office because Jamie was in the back seat. Schroeder tells audiences today that was when ''he got it'' - when he understood the kind of stress working mothers experience every day.
Two years later she ran for Congress and Denver was ready for her anti-Vietnam-War stance. Pat Schroeder was sworn into office with diapers in her purse. Her greatest fear as a freshman in Congress, she told reporters, was ''losing my housekeeper.''
When asked how she could be both a mother and a Congresswoman she snapped, ''I have a brain and a uterus, and I use both.''
''HER ASSETS ARE HER liabilities, her liabilities are her assets,'' say Dan Buck and Andrea Camp, speaking in unison.
Schroeder's quick wit grabs headlines, but Republicans claim she is superficial, and even sympathetic audiences can be confused by a wisecrack in the middle of a speech on foreign policy. She is smart (a recent article in Roll Call, the Congressional newspaper, named her one of the 20 smartest members of Congress), but as she admits, ''I don't think anyone likes a smart aleck.''
Jim Schroeder is a strong defender of his wife's controversial style. ''Over the years it has really annoyed me that she is called scatterbrained or flip,'' he says, almost sounding testy. ''She has a commendable ability to simplify.''
To a certain extent he is right: Schroeder's grasp of military spending and its ramifications on domestic policy, her long battles to turn ideas into statutes, are impressive. But the wide array of causes she embraces can bewilder: an antiwar activist, she supports women in the military; a supporter of abortion rights, she also calls herself pro-life because she favors increased research on infertility.
Her ''prepared text'' is usually a hastily scribbled list of talking points, and she can be superb. But the freewheeling oratory can be uneven, her endings chopped, as if she has suddenly run out of time or interest. Her debating style (if not her thinking) is scattered: on a recent ''Firing Line'' program, the subject was free-market competition; Schroeder's one-liners fizzled next to Jeane J. Kirkpatrick's grave pronouncements. At one point she spoke inexplicably about the plight of the Japanese consumer.
For now, Schroeder is running for re-election to the House, her 10th term. Her announced challenger is Gloria Gonzales Roemer, a 37-year-old Republican businesswoman and mother of four. Roemer says she's in the race to win, but political pundits suspect that she wants to establish name recognition for a 1992 race, should Schroeder run for President. But will she? Schroeder's serious answer is: ''My life would be easier if I find a candidate I can back. If I don't see one, then I would have to seriously consider it.'' In Denver, Louis X. (Kip) Cheroutes, her press secretary, says, ''I don't think she knows herself'' what she will do.
There are signs and portents. Her 1989 book, ''Champion of the Great American Family,'' outlines a national family policy and is full of personal and political anecdotes.
Some $400,000 left over from the 1987 Presidential bid is available, should Schroeder try again, according to Pam Solo, a top aide in 1987 and until recently co-director of the Institute for Peace and International Security in Cambridge, Mass. (Still,the amount is nowhere near the estimated $20 million a Presidential campaign now costs for a full primary run.) Her wardrobe, criticized three years ago for a certain haphazardness - she tended toward schoolmarmish ruffles and once Scotch-taped a carnation to her lapel - now features plain collars and sleek, wide-shouldered suits and dresses in strong, bold colors. An image adviser she consulted told her to wear wispier bangs and earrings; most of the time these days, she does both.
In addition to bimonthly visits to Denver, she crisscrosses the country on dozens of trips. In February, a few days after appearing in Hershey, Pa., she flew to Boston; the day's schedule ended in Salem and included a luncheon, three press interviews, two major speeches, a cocktail party, a photo session, dinner and a reception.
Back in her hotel room at 10 P.M., she sagged against a couch, legs stretched out. Andrea Camp, who was traveling with her, got some sodas. For the first time all day Schroeder looked tired; her angular face softened, the eyes, obscured earlier by the well-known squint, looked large and blue.
''People say that the first woman President will be tough, a man in woman's clothing, a conservative,'' she said. ''I don't think so. Sandra Day O'Connor has so disappointed them, so let down on Roe v. Wade with this [Webster] decision.'' She made an odd sound, half ''no,'' half growl. ''It's a powder-puff decision, a little of this, a little of that.
''Margaret Thatcher can be Prime Minister because she comes from a country raised by strong women. She puts on her pearls, points her finger, and people do it. In this country we don't like that.'' Schroeder stirred restlessly, searching for a conclusion. ''But if we're just going to have a man in woman's clothing? Is that what this is all about? I've got better things to do with my life than spending it in Hershey and Salem and all the places. . . .''
The next morning she was the first one down to the lobby, smile fresh, ready for an interview on WCVB-TV, a Boston ABC affiliate in Needham, Mass.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The nine-term Colorado Congresswoman at Gilpin Elementary in Denver. She has sponsored a number of bills promoting medical leave, education and other family concerns. (Jeffrey Aaronson for The New York Times); The senior woman in Congress, known as a ''blur of energy,'' checks her watch with Congressman Charlie Wilson of Texas as they ride the people-mover in the Capitol. (Alexandra Avakian/Woodfin Camp for The New York Times); In Denver in September 1987, Schroeder makes a tearful farewell tothe '88 Presidential race, with her husband, Jim, at her side. (Sara Krulwich for The New York Times); High school group, sponsored by Planned Parenthood, in Milwaukee. Family planning is on Schroeder's agenda. (Michael Kienitz/Picture Group); Women marines at Parris Island, S.C. Schroeder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); THAILAND (75%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (75%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: GREAT WALL FRANCE (55%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PARADES & MARCHES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DOGS (72%); HALLOWEEN (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: FERRARO, SUSAN; SCHROEDER, PATRICIA (REPR); SCHROEDER, PATRICIA (REPR) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) CHARLES A WILSON (50%); 



28 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: July 1, 1990

 BODY:

 

$	 	 	 	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 1	 3	 THE BURDEN OF PROOF, by Scott Turow.				 (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.95.) An attorney				 tries to unravel the mystery of his wife's death				 while defending his wheeler-dealer brother-in-law.	 	 	 	 	 2	 2	 2	 MESSAGE FROM NAM, by Danielle Steel.				 (Delacorte, $21.95.) A woman journalist's coming				 of age in the years between the assassination of				 John F. Kennedy and the fall of Saigon.	 	 	 	 	 3	 3	 19	 OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss.				 (Random House, $12.95.) The problems of finding				 your way through life; in verse and pictures.	 	 	 	 	 4	 4	 8	 THE STAND, by Stephen King. (Doubleday,				 $24.95.) Doomsday brings horrors to America; the				 uncut version of a novel first published in 1978.	 	 	 	 	 5	 6	 8	 DRAGON, by Clive Cussler. (Simon & Schuster,				 $21.95.) In 1993, Dirk Pitt moves fast to save				 America from a Japanese extremist.	 	 	 	 	 6	 7	 16	 THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM, by Robert Ludlum.				 (Random House, $21.95.) Jason Bourne plans to				 infiltrate the ruthless Medusa Brigade.	 	 	 	 	 7	 5	 11	 SEPTEMBER, by Rosamunde Pilcher. (Dunne/St.				 Martin's, $22.95.) Guests from many parts of the				 world encounter their often unexpected destinies				 during a get-together in a small Scottish town.	 	 	 	 	 8	 10	 5	 THE OUTLAWS OF MESQUITE, by Louis				 L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Eight short stories				 about the American frontier.	 	 	 	 	 9	 8	 8	 AN INCONVENIENT WOMAN, by Dominick				 Dunne. (Crown, $19.95.) Manners, morals and				 murder in Los Angeles's high society.	 	 	 	 	10	 9	 7	 THE GOLDEN ORANGE, by Joseph Wambaugh.				 (Perigord/Morrow, $19.95.) Murder and chicanery				 amid Orange County's yachts and mansions.	 	 	 	 	11	 11	 44	 CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, by Tom				 Clancy. (Putnam, $21.95.) The C.I.A.'s Jack Ryan				 fights Colombian drug lords.	 	 	 	 	12	 13	 2	 SULLIVAN'S STING, by Lawrence Sanders.				 (Putnam, $19.95.) The ordeals of a female cop				 assigned to track down a Florida con man.	 	 	 	 	13		 1	 SECOND CHILD, by John Saul. (Bantam, $14.95.)				 A horrible crime committed 100 years ago returns				 to haunt a quiet Maine village.	 	 	 	 	14	 15	 10	 THE GOLD COAST, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner,				 $19.95.) How life changes for an old WASP family				 when the head of a crime family becomes its				 neighbor on Long Island's North Shore.	 	 	 	 	15	 14	 11	 SKINNY LEGS AND ALL, by Tom Robbins.				 (Bantam, $19.95.) The horror and humor of the				 upcoming apocalypse are played out at a				 restaurant near the United Nations.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 1	 12	 MEN AT WORK, by George F. Will. (Macmillan,				 $19.95.) The political pundit and baseball buff				 describes the craft of the game.	 	 	 	 	 2	 2	 5	 DAVE BARRY TURNS 40, by Dave Barry. (Crown,				 $16.95.) Comments on the crises of middle age.	 	 	 	 	 3	 3	 4	 DON'T SHOOT, IT'S ONLY ME, by Bob Hope with				 Melville Shavelson. (Putnam, $19.95.) The				 comedian reminisces about his career.	 	 	 	 	 4	 5	 4	 FATHER, SON & CO., by Thomas J. Watson Jr. and				 Peter Petre. (Bantam, $22.95.) The autobiography				 of the man who headed I.B.M.	 	 	 	 	 5	 7	 23	 BARBARIANS AT THE GATE, by Bryan				 Burrough and John Helyar. (HarperCollins,				 $22.95.) The 1988 battle for control of RJR Nabisco.	 	 	 	 	 6	 4	 23	 MEGATRENDS 2000, by John Naisbitt and				 Patricia Aburdene. (Morrow, $21.95.)				 Prognostications for the next decade.	 	 	 	 	 7	 14	 10	 IN THE ARENA, by Richard Nixon. (Simon &				 Schuster, $21.95.) The 37th President reflects on his				 public career and private life.	 	 	 	 	 8	 6	 41	 IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, by				 Robert Fulghum. (Villard, $17.95.) A new collection				 of inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 9	 8	 86	 ALL I REALLY NEED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN				 KINDERGARTEN, by Robert Fulghum. (Villard,				 $17.95.) Inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	10	 11	 34	 LIAR'S POKER, by Michael Lewis. (Norton,				 $19.95.) Wall Street's tumultuous 1980's.	 	 	 	 	11	 9	 2	 PERIL AND PROMISE, by John Chancellor.				 (HarperCollins, $17.95.) Observations about				 contemporary America by a television newscaster.	 	 	 	 	12	 13	 14	 MEANS OF ASCENT, by Robert A. Caro. (Knopf,				 $24.95.) Lyndon Johnson's 1948 run for the Senate.	 	 	 	 	13	 12	 9	 LEGACIES, by Bette Bao Lord. (Knopf, $19.95.)				 Reflections on the Chinese experience during the				 past quarter-century.	 	 	 	 	14	 10	 21	 HEAD FIRST, by Norman Cousins. (Dutton,				 $19.95.) How the brain affects the body's endocrine				 and immune systems.	 	 	 	 	15		 12	 PARTING WITH ILLUSIONS, by Vladimir				 Pozner. (Atlantic Monthly, $19.95.) The				 autobiography of a Soviet commentator.	 	 	 	 	16 *	 15	 3	 THE SEARCH FOR MODERN CHINA, by				 Jonathan D. Spence. (Norton, $29.95.) Four				 centuries of Chinese history.	 	 	 	 	17 *		 18	 WHAT I SAW AT THE REVOLUTION, by Peggy				 Noonan. (Random House, $19.95.) The memoirs of				 a former Presidential speechwriter.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	 2	 72	 WEALTH WITHOUT RISK, by Charles J. Givens.				 (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) A Florida				 entrepreneur's advice about how to make a				 personal fortune.	 	 	 	 	 2	 3	 29	 THE GREAT WALDO SEARCH, by Martin				 Handford. (Little, Brown, $10.95.) A book of				 illustrations in which the game is to find a				 ubiquitous chap named Waldo.	 	 	 	 	 3	 1	 182	 WEBSTER'S NINTH NEW COLLEGIATE				 DICTIONARY. (Merriam-Webster, $16.95.) A				 standard reference work, revised and updated.	 	 	 	 	 4	 4	 26	 WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD DICTIONARY.				 (Simon & Schuster, $17.95.) The Third College				 Edition of a standard work, revised in 1988.	 	 	 	 	 5	 5	 19	 BEWARE THE NAKED MAN WHO OFFERS				 YOU HIS SHIRT, by Harvey Mackay. (Morrow,				 $19.95.) Advice on how to get ahead in business. 	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 28,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
 *An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
AND BEAR IN MIND
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
KILLING MISTER WATSON, by Peter Matthiessen. (Random House, $21.95.) A fierce, fascinating novel based on the life and death of a buccaneer businessman shot to death in Florida in 1910.
 
LANTERN SLIDES, by Edna O'Brien. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.95.) This fine collection of stories, little tragedies of passion, stupidity or stubbornness, continues the quest for origins and explanations that has concerned Ms. O'Brien's fiction for decades.
 
FADE OUT: The Calamitous Final Days of MGM, by Peter Bart. (Morrow, $19.95.) How a corporate raider bought a going movie company and bled it dry; a cautionary tale of the 1980's.
 
SLIM: Memories of a Rich and Imperfect Life, by Slim Keith with Annette Tapert. (Simon & Schuster, $22.95.) A high-powered, experienced wife (of a film director, an impresario, a British banker) tells what fun charm, brains and beauty were to have.
 
THE COMING GLOBAL BOOM: How to Benefit Now From Tomorrow's Dynamic World Economy, by Charles R. Morris. (Bantam, $19.95.) An entrepreneur and former banker argues ingeniously that boom is right around the corner, and that scary things like Japan and deficits are either neutral or good for us.
 
THE POLITICS OF RICH AND POOR: Wealth and the American Electorate in the Reagan Aftermath, by Kevin Phillips. (Random House, $19.95.) The redistribution of wealth toward the rich in the last 20 years was a Republican policy objective, not just an accident, Mr. Phillips contends, and a populist reaction is likely.
 
STALIN'S APOLOGIST: Walter Duranty, The New York Times's Man in Moscow, by S. J. Taylor. (Oxford University, $24.95.) A beautifully researched life of the high-living, cynical journalist who helped cover up Stalin's atrocities in the 1930's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIETNAM (56%); SCOTLAND (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (56%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ASSASSINATION (75%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (67%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 



29 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: New& Noteworthy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

 BODY:

AGENT OF INFLUENCE, by David Aaron. (Avon, $4.95.) A big-time mergers-and-acquisitions specialist discovers that his client, a wealthy Frenchman trying to take over the largest communications empire in the United States, is an agent for the K.G.B. Last year our reviewer, Donovan Fitzpatrick, called the novel ''an 'econo-thriller,' a frightening journey through the netherworld of corporate raiding, financial espionage, leveraged buyouts, scorched-earth maneuvers, poison pill ploys and Wall Street esoterica.''
 
GREAT PLAINS, by Ian Frazier. (Penguin, $9.95.) From the air, the Great Plains look as flat and boring as a parquet floor, but zoom in close, Ian Frazier discovered, and there is a quirky topography that is every bit as valuable and worthy of protection as a sawtooth mountain range. ''With wit and style, Mr. Frazier writes about tumbleweeds, Bonnie and Clyde, the weather, cafe conversation, tepees, MX missiles,'' Sue Hubbell said here last year. ''He writes about the Mennonites who became, as it were, the inventors of Plains agriculture when they introduced hard red wheat. He tells about the destruction of the land that followed and the dust storms.'' 
 
THE BRIDESMAID, by Ruth Rendell. (Mysterious Press, $4.95.) Philip, a rather ordinary young Londoner, finds the woman of his dreams: a crazed goddess named Senta who proposes that they seal their love by each committing a murder. Ruth Rendell ''is a diabolically subtle writer,'' our reviewer, Marilyn Stasio, said last year.
 
THE ENIGMA OF JAPANESE POWER: People and Politics in a Stateless Nation, by Karel van Wolferen. (Vintage, $14.95.) Japan is not a democracy, a Dutch journalist argues, but a dictatorship in disguise: by practicing their low-key totalitarianism, the business and political leaders of ''the system'' keep a largely docile populace feeding the engines of economic domination. Last year our reviewer, Frank B. Gibney, said that, while he found some of the author's generalizations too sweeping, Karel van Wolferen has written ''a distinguished and disturbing book about how the world's new economic superpower is run.''
 
THESE THINGS HAPPEN, by Marian Thurm. (Washington Square/Pocket, $7.95.) A mother and daughter both going through their second divorces become roommates. A gay man's lover and former wife both show up at his son's bar mitzvah. In these and other stories, Marian Thurm provides a ''wry, insightful . . . compendium of contemporary alternatives to the nuclear family,'' Lisa Zeidner said here in 1988.
 
MALARIA DREAMS: An African Adventure, by Stuart Stevens. (Atlantic Monthly, $9.95.) In the midst of an attempt to retrieve a friend's Land-Rover, abandoned for obscure reasons in the Central African Republic, the author and his female companion discover that the man they are trying to help may have been a diamond smuggler and a spy. ''Though 'Malaria Dreams' is ultimately too light to linger long afterward in the reader's mind, Mr. Stevens emerges from the book not only as an engaging, picaresque hero, but also as a clever and observant writer,'' Michiko Kakutani said in The Times last year.
 
EMMA WHO SAVED MY LIFE, by Wilton Barnhardt. (St. Martin's, $4.95.) In this first novel, the object of the narrator's affections is Emma Gennaro, an aspiring poet who hovers in his orbit for a decade as he tries to become a Broadway star. Last year our reviewer, Joseph Olshan, said the story has ''wonderful dividends, including biting remarks . . . and a diverting group of characters who represent the socioeconomic spectrum of New York City.''
 
WHERE THE RIVERS RAN BACKWARD, by William E. Merritt. (Anchor/Doubleday, $8.95.) When this memoir of the Vietnam war was published last year, our reviewer, David Murray, called it ''a fascinating mosaic of reminiscences about Mr. Merritt's fellow soldiers, their weapons, their travails and training and their war. Mr. Merritt has a zoom lens for an eye and a broadcast-quality tape recorder for an ear.''
 
THE SHOPLIFTER'S APPRENTICE, by Ellen Lesser. (Washington Square/Pocket Books, $7.95.) In the title piece of this collection, a woman catches a shoplifter in action and then spends the night with him. Ellen Lesser ''has a way of conjuring up scenes that vibrate with subtle tensions,'' Tom Nolan said here last year. ''When this impressive style is matched with subjects and situations of equal interest, the results are memorable.''
 
WORDS OF FIRE, DEEDS OF BLOOD: The Mob, the Monarchy, and the French Revolution, by Olivier Bernier. (Anchor/Doubleday, $12.95.) This fast-paced dramatization of the French Revolution is ''highly readable'' and the author, who has written books about Louis XIV, Louis XV and Marie Antoinette, ''has a good eye for detail,'' David Walton said here last year.
 
GARDEN OF LIES, by Eileen Goudge. (Signet, $5.95.) Switched in the hospital at birth, Rachel and Rose grow up in different surroundings - an upper-class Manhattan neighborhood and an impoverished section of Brooklyn - but they both become successful career women and even fall in love with the same man. ''The pleasure of this kind of romantic novel is its very superficiality,'' Regina Weinreich said here last year. The book is ''a successful entertainment.''
 
EYEWITNESS TO HISTORY, edited by John Carey. (Avon, $10.95.) In more than 300 firsthand accounts, observers from Thucydides to Neil Armstrong tell what it was like to make history. Last year one reviewer called this collection ''a bedside book . . . full of the illuminating, the compelling, the informative and the simply entertaining.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ian Frazier (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PAPERBACK BOOKS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); JOURNALISM (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); FAMILY (66%); MALARIA (60%); ESPIONAGE (56%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM E MERRITT (66%); IAN FRAZIER (66%); EMMA GENNARO (58%); VAN WOLFEREN (57%); 



30 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: THE FIRST JEFFERSONIAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT DALLEK; Robert Dallek teaches diplomatic and political history at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is writing a biography of Lyndon B. Johnson.

 BODY:

EMPIRE OF LIBERTY
The Statecraft of Thomas Jefferson.
By Robert W. Tucker and David C. Hendrickson.
360 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $24.95.
Few American Presidents are held in higher esteem than Thomas Jefferson. Though historians have scrutinized every phase of his long public career and found him wanting in a number of respects, he holds an unshakable place in the pantheon of American heroes. ''This is the most extraordinary collection of talent . . . that has ever been gathered together at the White House,'' President John F. Kennedy told a group of Nobel laureates, ''with the possible exception of when Thomas Jefferson dined alone.'' 
In ''Empire of Liberty,'' Robert W. Tucker, a professor of American diplomacy at Johns Hopkins University's School for Advanced International Studies, and David C. Hendrickson, an associate professor of political science at Colorado College, have reassessed Jefferson's ideas and his impact on American foreign policy from his day to ours. They have written an excellent book that is the best succinct account of Jefferson's foreign policy and a superb primer for understanding America's response to the outside world.
The Jefferson that the authors portray was a man of many contradictions. He consistently opposed what 18th-century European diplomats called ''reason of state'': the proposition that the survival of the state was the greatest good and that actions transcending law and ordinary morality were legitimate means to this end. Jefferson wanted no part of the external politics and wars that could give rise to expanded government power and limits on individual freedom. He preferred domestic to foreign policy - the protection of liberty at home rather than national security struggles abroad.
Yet Jefferson's foreign policy goals and actions ran counter to his most fundamental beliefs. To secure the internal freedoms he held so dear, he considered it essential for the United States to establish an ''empire of liberty,'' vast tracts of land that could assure the predominance of an agricultural society. But to gain that empire and free trade as well, which would give farmers a ready outlet for surplus produce, Jefferson resorted to the ''reason of state'' he considered inimical to American freedoms.
The 1803 Louisiana Purchase was one case in point. On the surface, the acquisition of almost half a continent at a negligible price without resort to force was a great triumph of statecraft. In Jefferson's view, it preserved the republican character of the Union by removing the presence of dangerous neighbors and ''the prospect of wars that must result in the imposition of unbearable burdens on society.'' It also insured that a ''predominantly agricultural political economy . . . could be sustained despite a steady increase of population.'' Yet in acquiring Louisiana, Jefferson abandoned his deeply held commitment to strict construction of the Constitution, which did not specifically mention a power to acquire territory. In taking Louisiana by what he considered extraconstitutional means, he acted more as an enlightened despot than as a democratic statesman devoted to weak government and the preservation of liberty.
Jefferson's 1807-9 embargo on American exports was another assault on internal freedoms. Although designed to combat Britain's impressment of American sailors and violations of our neutral rights, it achieved neither goal. Worse, it brought the commercial life of the nation to a standstill, led to wholesale violations of civil liberties unequaled in America's peacetime history and ultimately involved the United States in a war. Jefferson's failure, the authors say, arose from an excessively moralistic approach to foreign affairs that impaired his understanding of international relations. He converted ''questions of interest into matters of right and wrong,'' they write, and this poorly served the national well-being.
The contradictions and shortcomings in Jefferson's dealings with the outside world have resonated throughout our history. In seeking an empire of liberty, Jefferson wished not only to expand the country's territorial holdings, but also to extend American institutions around the globe. Although he had doubts about the capacity of other peoples and nations to adopt American democracy, he held to the conviction that the durability of political freedoms at home partly depended on their triumph abroad. This crusading fervor, the authors assert, has repeatedly shifted the national focus from domestic to foreign affairs at the expense of internal tranquillity and progress. ''So long as security is conceived in a traditional and restricted manner, as largely a function of the balance of power, the ultimate primacy of foreign over domestic policy need not detract significantly from the normal order of things in which domestic happiness and welfare are primary,'' they write. However, when ''security is interpreted as a function both of a favorable balance of power between states and of the internal order maintained by states, that is, as a favorable ideological balance . . . foreign policy may come to dominate over domestic policy in a way that is all-pervasive.''
''Empire of Liberty'' is a forceful reminder that even in the hands of our most brilliant Presidents, crusades abroad are a poor substitute for reasoned and restrained analysis.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EMPIRE OF LIBERTY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HISTORY (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); WRITERS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (55%); 

PERSON: DALLEK, ROBERT; TUCKER, ROBERT W; HENDRICKSON, DAVID C JOHN F KENNEDY (77%); 



31 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2392 words

HEADLINE: NO, MEIN FUHRER

BYLINE: By V. R. BERGHAHN; V. R. Berghahn is the author of ''The Americanization of West German Industry, 1945-1973.''

 BODY:

LETTERS TO FREYA
1939-1945.
By Helmuth James von Moltke.
Edited and translated by Beate Ruhm von Oppen.
Illustrated. 441 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
During a visit to Poland last year, West Germany's Chancellor Helmut Kohl wanted to visit western parts of Poland specifically associated with the German past. After much embarrassing confusion, Auschwitz was included on his itinerary. So was Krzyzowa. Once known as Kreisau, this was the former estate of Count Helmuth James von Moltke, a descendant of a great Prussian noble family and one of the key figures in the German resistance against Hitler. Someone also had the bright idea of asking one of Moltke's sons to join Chancellor Kohl. But Freya von Moltke, Helmuth's wife and the doyenne of the family, now living in Vermont, counseled a polite refusal. As she explained, a Moltke would wish to go only if invited by the Polish Government. The German-Polish border was now fixed, and the Moltkes did not want to give the impression that they were infringing on Polish territory by returning to their former property. It was a show of sensitivity and integrity that has characterized Freya von Moltke's entire life - and that of her husband, until he was executed by the Nazis in 1945. 
''Letters to Freya'' contains plenty of material to support this judgment, and much more. The letters tell of Moltke's work, ideas and emotions during a time of growing crisis; they offer deep insights into the mood of the Germans and the abject brutality of the Nazi dictatorship. Reading them in this excellent translation is a very moving experience; we are privy to one side of a dialogue between two courageous people.
Born in 1907, Moltke was the great-grandnephew of Helmuth von Moltke, Bismarck's famous field marshal who defeated the French in 1870. His second name was that of his mother's father, Sir James Rose Innes, who rose to the position of Chief Justice in pre-1914 British South Africa. In 1931 Helmuth married Freya Deichmann, the daughter of a wealthy banker from Cologne. The young couple moved to Berlin to complete their legal training. Unlike many other upper-class Germans of their generation, both were anti-Nazis. Although they agonized about staying in Hitler's Germany, they decided against emigration. Instead, they used their many connections to help others to get out. Specializing in international law and having been admitted to the bar in London, Moltke made many important contacts. Among his British friends were Lionel Curtis, the co-founder of the Royal Institute of International Affairs; George Bell, the Bishop of Chichester; Alexander Kirk, the charge d'affaires at the United States Embassy in Berlin; and George F. Kennan, who was to become one of the main architects of postwar American foreign policy. Moltke urged all of them to fight the isolationists and appeasers of Hitler.
At the outbreak of war, Moltke was well placed to continue his underground activities when he joined the Foreign Division of the Military Intelligence Service (Abwehr), led by an enigmatic enemy of Nazism, Adm. Wilhelm Canaris. Moltke acted as legal adviser to the Armed Services High Command, which gave him ample opportunity to travel in occupied Europe.
At one level, his letters to his wife, which she hid in beehives at Kreisau, provide an intriguing picture of wartime attitudes among the German population and within the Nazi hierarchy. His accounts of a widespread absence of popular enthusiasm at the beginning of the war give way to reports of encounters with Germans whose elation over military victories induced fits of megalomania. ''Clods'' and ''frightful compatriots'' he called those bragging companions in railroad compartments who ''saluted with a snappy H.H.'' (Heil Hitler) and thought the world was at their feet. But on closer inspection these Germans had all become dehumanized - mere ''machines with a particular function in a process.'' Observing the bustle around him in the Breslau railroad station, Moltke noted: ''Except for my very nice porter I literally did not see a single human being. The movement that has swept these creatures with it has torn their human bonds.'' It is not difficult to imagine what would happen to these people once the military tide turned and aerial warfare began. As Moltke wrote in September 1943, ''the internal disintegration has assumed grotesque forms.'' Similar phenomena could be observed in Government quarters at this time, where Joseph Goebbels and other Nazi bigwigs were seized by ''sheer panic.'' Meanwhile, the war continued to breed ''cowardice, servility, and mass-psychosis.''
The corrupting effect that the progressive collapse of the Third Reich had on millions of people makes for depressing reading. Everywhere was that creeping ''defensive indifference,'' that proclivity to ''put on armour'' that Moltke felt was threatening even himself: ''In order to endure death and horror one tends to kill one's own humanity, which is a much greater danger than not being able to bear it.'' Combatting this danger became part of his fight.
However revealing his letters are of changing popular moods, they also speak of his own hopes and depressions. In 1939, after initial nightmares of an impending global catastrophe, Moltke regained hopes for an early peace in the west. But when Hitler began his brutal conquest of western and northern Europe in the spring of 1940, Moltke lapsed into a deep depression: ''Heaven knows what I am in Berlin for. The main purpose of my work is gone. Well, I must wait and see. But you are my love and that at least is a firm point.'' What also sustained him was his unwavering conviction that Nazism would be defeated. Yet, indeed, what was there to do in those months of Hitler's uninterrupted military triumphs? Moltke views himself ''threshing empty straw on a side track, for everything I might have been able to do has been overtaken by events. That is, naturally, unpleasant. But . . . I am in the machine now and must wait to see how I can get out again.'' Repeatedly he is tempted to retreat or to look the other way. On Sept. 9, 1941, when the Soviet Union still seems on the verge of defeat, he writes to Freya: ''I don't want to be here at all. I'd so very much rather be at home. Everything strikes me as so utterly senseless, and yet one has to survive this time and wait. When it gets too awful I think of everything at Kreisau.''
His self-doubts notwithstanding, however, Moltke was too passionate and moral a man to withdraw and let history take its course. For ''whoever lets black be white and evil [be] good for the sake of outward calm does not deserve peace and is putting his head in the sand. But whoever knows at all times the difference between good and evil and does not doubt it, however great the triumph of evil seems to be, has laid the first stone for the overcoming of evil.'' Moltke's letters reflect his moral growth in these years. His faith is reinvigorated, and he rises to ever greater challenges.
In 1939, appalled by breaches of international law committed by the Germans in occupied Europe, he concentrated on stemming Nazi illegalities through reasoned protest within the military bureaucracy. He got his superiors to sign papers that mitigated Hitler's decrees. He stood up on his own at top-level conferences reminding his colleagues of existing laws. He ''asked permission to exercise the right of every official to have his dissenting opinion put on record. Big row: I was an officer and had no such right but simply the duty to obey. I said I was sorry, but this was a question of responsibility before history, which to me had priority over the duty to obey. The matter came before the admiral, and after 5 minutes he endorsed my opinion.'' At this early point in the war it was still possible to get legal opinions accepted. ''Today,'' he reports with some pride on another occasion in 1939, ''I won my case. But it was like winning a victory over a hydra. I chopped off one of the monster's heads, and 10 new ones have grown in its place.'' Little did he know of an even more horrible future.
Later he invoked international law and used political reasoning to stop the shooting of hostages in Holland. He also had a hand in warning the Danes of the impending deportation of Jews, and most Danish Jews were able to avoid capture. By this time, however, he had long ceased merely to throw legal monkey wrenches into the Nazi system and began plotting to overthrow it. And nothing seems to have spurred his hatred of the regime, as well as his determination to promote its total destruction, more than the information he received about the Holocaust.
By the summer of 1941 Moltke was hearing ''reports that in transports of prisoners or Jews only 20 percent arrive, that there is starvation in the prisoner-of-war camps, that typhoid and all the other deficiency epidemics have broken out, that our own people are breaking down from exhaustion. What will happen when the nation as a whole realizes that this war is lost, and lost differently from the last one? With a blood-guilt that cannot be atoned for in our lifetime and can never be forgotten, with an economy that is completely ruined? Will men arise capable of distilling contrition and penance from this punishment, and so, gradually, a new strength to live? Or will everything go under in chaos?''
On Oct. 21, 1941, he writes: ''Since Saturday the Berlin Jews are being rounded up . . . sent off, with what they can carry, to Litzmannstadt and Smolensk. We are to be spared the sight of them being simply left to perish in hunger and cold, and that is why it is done in Litzmannstadt and Smolensk. A woman . . . saw a Jew collapse on the street; when she wanted to help him up, a policeman stepped in, stopped her, and kicked the body on the ground so that it rolled into the gutter; then he turned to the lady with a vestige of shame and said: 'Those are our orders.' '' Moltke was disgusted: ''How can anyone know these things and still walk around free? With what right? Is it not inevitable that his turn will come too one day, and that he too will be rolled into the gutter? . . . If only I could get rid of the terrible feeling that I have let myself be corrupted, that I do not react keenly enough to such things, that they torment me without producing a spontaneous reaction. I have mistrained myself, for in such things, too, I react with my head. I think about a possible reaction instead of acting.''
Worse was to come: more hostages shot and Jews evacuated, the ''gradual encroachment in the Reich itself of measures 'tried and proved' in occupied territories,'' the fate of Russians taken prisoner, ''a Mental Home for SS men who broke down 'executing' women and children.'' On Nov. 7, 1941, at a meeting in the Foreign Ministry, Moltke had his ''first official contact'' with the persecution of the Jews. Again he rebelled ''against 24 men, and quite inflexibly . . . attacked a decree which already had the approval of all ministers . . . and for the moment . . . halted its course.'' On June 16, 1943, he went into ''the murderers' pit of loyal vassals of the Fuhrer'' and attacked them furiously: ''They pointed out to me that what I wanted was incompatible with a Fuhrer Order, whereupon I replied: 'But, gentlemen, you can't hide behind a Fuhrer Order.' ''
Such experiences apparently drove Moltke to an even more determined resistance, especially after he had received, in October 1942, ''an authentic report on the 'SS blast-furnace.' So far I had not believed it,'' but his informant assured him ''that it was true: 6000 people a day are 'processed' in this furnace.'' He continued his efforts to save lives, even if it was often no more than a stay of execution that he achieved. But above all, he now worked ever more frantically for the total defeat of the Third Reich.
It was on this point of the defeat of the Nazis that he found himself in disagreement with the conservative opposition, centered around Carl Goerdeler, that was thinking in terms of overthrowing Hitler as a first step toward a negotiated peace with the Allies. Moltke had ethical reservations against assassination, and he believed that a total defeat was necessary to avoid the emergence of a Hitler myth. Conscious of the course of the Russian Revolution, he feared that a military coup against the Nazi regime would merely result, after a transitional phase, in a more radical and destructive German regime. Finally, Moltke had serious objections to the arch-conservative politics of Goerdeler's circle; Moltke wanted a genuinely progressive new Germany.
Thus, while working to speed up an Allied victory, Moltke established a network of like-minded people who would be available to take over key Government positions in the hour of surrender. He also organized several secret meetings at Kreisau to discuss broad economic and political principles on which a new Germany would be based. What ultimately proved fatal to this plotting was the growing suspicion of Hitler and Heinrich Himmler that the Abwehr was a center of anti-Nazi resistance. Moltke had early warnings of what might be coming in 1943, and from November of that year on he kept receiving ominous visits from the SS. His letters to Freya became more guarded, and on Jan. 19, 1944, he was arrested. He was hauled through a number of prisons and concentration camps, interrogated and maltreated. His trial began a year later. The verdict was a foregone conclusion, and Moltke was executed on Jan. 23, 1945. ''Letters to Freya'' ends with stories of Moltke's encounters with other prisoners, men and women from all walks of life whose murders continued right up to the last hours of the war. Death had become Germany's ubiquitous master.
There is yet another sequel to the story. Having refused Helmut Kohl's request for a family member to visit the former Moltke estate that is now in Poland, Freya von Moltke traveled from Vermont to Europe in May to help realize a plan to turn the estate into a center where people from all over the world can meet in a spirit of peace and friendship. Maybe we should take this project as yet another sign that both World War II and the cold war have come to an end 45 years after Helmuth James von Moltke's untimely death.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helmuth James von Moltke and his wife, Freya, 1941 (From ''Letters to Freya'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LETTERS TO FREYA, 1939-1945 (BOOK)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); FAMILY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BERGHAHN, V R; MOLTKE, HELMUTH JAMES VON; VON OPPEN, BEATE RUHM HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (73%); HELMUT KOHL (73%); 



32 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 17, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: ADVICE FORMTHE TEACHERS

BYLINE: By JOAN COUNTRYMAN; Joan Countryman, a member of the board of directors of the National Association of Independent Schools, is assistant head of school for academic planning at Germantown Friends School in Philadelphia.

 BODY:

TEACHERS AT WORK
Achieving Success in Our Schools.
By Susan Moore Johnson.
395 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $22.95.
On a recent visit to an urban public high school I was struck by the gloom of the place: dark halls, peeling paint, torn window shades, broken chairs. ''Why would anyone want to come here?'' I wondered. Similar questions occurred to Susan Moore Johnson, an associate professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, whose interest in the school as a workplace led her to interview 115 teachers from public and private schools. The interview subjects were identified by their principals as good teachers ''whose work is respected by their colleagues and whose contributions to the school would be missed if they were to leave.'' The result of the study, ''Teachers at Work,'' is a fine account of the physical, organizational, sociological, economic, political, cultural and psychological features of an adult's day at school. Along the way Ms. Johnson answers some questions about how certain schools make good teaching possible. 
''No one would ever surmise that teachers' work is crucial to the future of the country from the physical features of their workplaces,'' Ms. Johnson observes. Some of her respondents described cleaning and painting their classrooms and spending their own money to purchase supplies. Comparisons with other occupations are thought-provoking. Imagine doctors painting their offices, or lawyers mopping floors.
Ms. Johnson reminds us that our society has long expected teachers to serve with a selflessness not demanded of other workers. But ''in too many cases,'' she says, ''successful and committed teachers have left the profession because their workplaces were inferior, confining, disheartening environments that prohibited them from doing the work they set out to do.'' Her study asked how teachers themselves would improve their schools if they had the power to do so, and ''Teachers at Work'' presents a strong case that teachers should, indeed, have that power.
Although the study focused on public schools, where the vast majority of the nation's students and teachers spend their days, roughly one-third of the respondents were private school teachers, and Ms. Johnson's findings may explain one riddle of the profession: why private schools, with lower pay and without job security, continue to attract well-educated and committed staff. Private school teachers report a sense of identity and belonging, while most public school teachers ''must sustain their commitment to their profession on their own, with little support from their school organizations.'' Three institutions - a Quaker school, a school run according to the principles of Rudolf Steiner and a small alternative school - stood out in the study because the teachers' roles in governance were ''comparable . . . to the collegial administration of hospitals and law firms, with which schools often are compared unfavorably.'' The opportunity to set policy and oversee standards of practice contributed significantly to the job satisfaction of the professionals at these three schools.
Despite differences in their circumstances, teachers were in noticeable agreement about the requirements of a good educational workplace. Class size, for example, a concern about which research produces contradictory results, offered no mystery to them: ''They were convinced that class size made a difference in how and what students learned, and they held remarkably consistent notions about what levels of enrollment were intolerable (over 30), acceptable (25-30), preferable (15-25), and ideal (10-15).''
Anyone responsible for schools - from teachers, legislators and policy makers to private citizens - would do well to attend to this study, and to Ms. Johnson's recommendations: functional, well-maintained, clean buildings, and comfortable work spaces with modern equipment and current materials. As this book shows, good schools require adequate funding, community support, school-based management and the increased influence of teachers. And as it also shows, improving the quality of schools as workplaces will make it possible for good teachers to do good work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A teacher and his class in a New York City high school. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TEACHERS AT WORK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: COUNTRYMAN, JOAN; JOHNSON, SUSAN MOORE JOAN B JOHNSON (93%); 



33 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

MEDIAN RESALE HOUSE PRICES	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		May 90	Apr. 90	May 89	Nation	$94,800	$95,600	$92,600	Northeast	141,300	140,700	143,800	Midwest	73,100	75,300	70,300	South	85,200	85,900	84,200	West	135,300	137,600	142,100	 	 	 	 	(Source: National Association of Realtors)	 	 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.36	10.32	10.50	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.58	8.57	9.21	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.19	10.14	10.27	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.30	8.29	8.90	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.23	10.20	10.41	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.47	8.44	9.18	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.61	10.49	10.77	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.66	8.72	9.34	 	 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	8.14	8.05	8.53	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.84	9.84	10.13	
 
Source: HSH Associates
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; REAL ESTATE; PRICES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); 



34 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 15, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: An Agenda for the 90's;
What the Real Estate Board Is Seeking in Incentives

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
IN what amounts to a platform for the economically troubled 1990's, New York's major owners and developers have asked City Hall for incentives that would make it more profitable to renovate existing office buildings or turn them into apartments, spur construction of back-office or other commercial space and reward landlords or builders who provide space for not-for-profit organizations and local services.
Their 32-point agenda, ''A Foundation to Build On,'' was released late last month by the Real Estate Board of New York and was met with a guarded reception at City Hall, where officials neither embraced nor rejected any of the proposals.
Although it recommended tax benefits to spur new construction, the board concentrated on stablization rather than development. It acknowledged the shakiness of the current market when it noted that ''because of the current excess supply of office space, renovation is the likeliest form of real property investment for the immediate future.''
The board has asked that renovated buildings anywhere south of 96th Street in Manhattan be eligible for a 10-year declining tax exemption, beginning at 100 percent, on the value added through renovation. 
The board has asked the city to grant 22-year tax benefits to renovation and new construction in the ''information-processing'' industry, on the theory that this represents the new manufacturing base for the city.
And the board has asked for a 10-year declining tax exemption, beginning at 100 percent, on the value added to certain office buildings in their conversion to residential use. Rents would be stabilized for the decade in which the exemptions were in force but could then rise to market rates.
The board has asked that business tenants who sign leases of 10 years or longer ''be recognized for this assurance of job retention'' by getting a $2,000 tax credit for every city resident they employ and $1,000 for every New York State resident in their employ who does not live in the city. This credit would be applied from the sixth to 10th years of the lease.
Besides its recommended tax policies, the board has come up with the notion of zoning bonuses for owners and developers who set aside space for day-care centers, rehearsal studios, centers for the elderly, satellite classrooms, cleaners, cobblers, grocers and pharmacists. For every square foot they reserve for not-for-profit users and certain local services, they would get six square feet of additional commercial space, up to 20 percent more than zoning rules allow.
Bonuses could also be generated by existing buildings ''which can suitably accommodate these uses.'' Because of the ''potential construction difficulty in adding floor area to an existing or renovated structure,'' the board said, ''the bonusable floor area should be transferable to adjacent sites.''
That would raise the prospect of a building owner's making room for a 10,000-square-foot day-care center, then selling 60,000 square feet of development rights to the owner of an adjacent lot.
The 94-year-old Real Estate Board is a trade association with more than 5,500 members, including landlords, developers, brokers, managers and bankers. Its top officers took their proposals to Mayor David N. Dinkins and his aides at City Hall on June 14.
''They thanked us and asked for more copies, which I hope was a good sign,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the board. ''They didn't say no to us, they didn't say we were crazy. But they didn't say yes.''
An assistant press secretary to Mayor Dinkins, Leland T. Jones, said: ''Certainly, there is something attractive to each of the ideas. They are thought-provoking and we want to take a good, hard, analytical look at them.'' However, he said, ''One should move a little more cautiously before putting them in place, to be sure that the benefit that accrues to some does not hurt many more.''
Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, a longtime critic of needlessly generous tax benefits, reserved comment on specifics of the proposals but said they merited careful review. Speaking generally, she added: ''It's not that I'm opposed to abatements. It's just that we cannot provide them without a careful cost-benefit analysis.''
About the zoning bonuses, the mayoral spokesman said, ''If there is a way to create zoning policies that encourage the development of day-care centers, without negatively affecting the environment, that's obviously something we'd want to take a look at.''
SPEAKING of proposals to use tax incentives to spur renovation, Mr. Jones said: ''If there is a way, with tax policy, we can encourage private landlords to maintain their properties and not force the city to become a public landlord, the interests of the city are well served. But that tax policy, while promoting one thing of benefit, should not promote another thing of harm, i.e., holes in the city budget.''
''The city is not losing any money by implementing these programs,'' said Michael Slattery, a senior vice president of the Real Estate Board. ''The value that the site currently has and the taxes that the site is currently paying are not exempted. The level of taxes that the property is generating at the time it becomes eligible remains. These benefits are revenue-neutral.'' As it is now, no exemptions are available to renovation or new construction projects south of Fulton Street or anywhere east of the Avenue of the Americas from 34th to 96th Street, including both sides of the avenue. To the west of that, between 34th and 96th Streets, benefits are available but the exempted taxes must eventually be paid back. Under the board's plan, exempted taxes would not have to be paid back.
THE board would extend construction and renovation benefits anywhere south of Fulton Street and to both sides of the Avenue of the Americas. It would seek benefits for renovation - but not new construction - on the rest of the East Side.
Under the board's proposal, 100 percent of the enhanced value attributable to renovation or new construction would be exempt from the property tax in the first year, 90 percent in the second year, 80 percent in the third year, and so on. Any renovation project would be eligible in which capital spending amounted to 10 percent or more of the building's assessed value, as opposed to the current 20 percent threshold.
The board has asked for an even more substantial exemption for new construction and renovation of space used by data-processing, billing and record-keeping activities that have ''provided steady, attractive employment for a growing number of semi-skilled city residents.''
Arguing that back offices are ''creating the sort of opportunities that manufacturing once offered New York,'' the board asked that the 22-year property tax exemption ordinarily reserved for manufacturing projects be extended to certain back-office projects.
It ackowledged the difficulties in defining eligible office jobs and suggested the creation of an ''independent board of public and private officials'' to grant the benefit on a discretionary basis.
Many of the board's proposals restate longstanding complaints by commercial owners. One of their goals is eliminating the commercial rent tax. Another is to shift the property tax burden more to homeowners. In the last seven years, the proportion of the total tax levy paid by commercial properties has increased to 49.3 percent, from 41.6 percent, while the share paid by owners of one- , two- and three-family homes has dropped to 11.1 percent, from 14.1 percent.
By sheer numbers, however, homeowners greatly impress legislators who are setting tax policy with a constant eye on re-election prospects. As Mr. Spinola said, ''It is no news to say that this is a political problem that we're not sure we can ever deal with.''

GRAPHIC: Graph showing tax levels; Graph showing employment changes. (Source: Real Estate Board of N.Y.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE BOARD (75%); CITY HALL (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ZONING (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: DUNLOP, DAVID W DAVID DAVIS (70%); 



35 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Water Metering;
Apartment Buildings Face Shock on Bills

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
''I HAVEN'T heard the word 'abandonment' used in the Bronx since the 70's,'' said David Diamond, a principal in Rosenberg Diamond Development Corporation, based on Pelham Parkway, which manages 3,000 apartments in 50 buildings. ''Now I'm hearing it again.''
He is hearing it from owners shocked by the early evidence of what water metering is going to mean to operating costs in apartment buildings with high-density occupancy. Owners who have already installed meters and taken various water-conservation measures have begun to report the results. They are helpless to control their tenants' use of water and troubled by the prospect of being unable to locate, in timely fashion, wasteful leaks that tenants fail to report.
A high-density building is defined as one with average occupancy of four or more persons per housing unit. They are common in older neighborhoods with buildings that have a large mix of two- and three-bedroom apartments. In low-density buildings, metering may actually reduce water bills, some owners say. 
New York City's gradual shift to water meters as the basis for billing for water and sewer charges in residential property is now in the third year of a 10-year transition. The traditional billing method was based on estimated use calculated on the basis on a property's physical characteristics - how much street frontage it occupied, its height, the number of housing units in the building and the number of bathrooms and kitchens.
So far, 90,000 meters have been installed in one- and two-family houses, officials of the Department of Environmental Protection report, and there are 470,000 more to go.
Two of every three homeowners are paying less under the new billing method than they did under the old one, the officials say.
The multifamily owners were given a two-year ''window of opportunity'' to have a plumber install a meter and get a reimbursement up to a specified maximum as a credit on the bill. About 200 property owners have taken advantage of this, most of them in the last seven months, the officials say.
But in about six months contractors for the city will start doing the work on a significant scale, said Steven F. Ostrega, assistant commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection and director of the Bureau of Water Register. ''We'll be up to speed in two years, doing 6,000 to 9,000 buildings a year,'' he said. There are believed to be about 70,000 multifamily properties.
What this will mean to the water bills of co-ops, condominiums and rentals is a subject that owner groups have been pondering for two years. Last month many rental owners attended a seminar sponsored by the Community Housing Improvement Program on water meters and water management. One issue was ''Should you install meters now'' or wait until it is forced upon you.
From the early evidence, it appears that water metering will provide a severe economic jolt to many buildings, probably in moderate-income neighborhoods in particular.
Some owners in those neighborhoods are already finding that water bills are as high as 75 percent of the annual fuel bill.however. On the basis of estimated use they have probably been underpaying by about 50 percent, the city's officials estimate.
MUCH of the information available to the city on actual use in multifamily buildings comes from the Jamaica Water Supply Company, a private utility that supplies water to much of Queens and Nassau County.
Average water use in low-rise multifamily buildings supplied by Jamaica Water is 81,000 gallons per apartment per year, or about 220 gallons a day. A study by the Department of Housing and Urban Development has shown multifamily use to be average about the same - 76,000 gallons per unit per year, or 208 gallons a day.
In the Washington area, which has water metering, Gary Briggs, senior vice president of the Charles E. Smith Cos., reports that the average daily water use in the 14,000 apartments the company manages is 125 gallons. The range is 90 to 160 gallons. The main variable is the number of occupants in the apartment. About 80 percent of the usage is under tenant control. The company's properties typically have extensive lawns to water and there typically are swimming pools.
In New York City's apartments, nearly all water use is under the tenants' control. They never see the bills. The property owners who do see the bills do not find them models of clarity, although there are plans for a redesign. The bill reports use in cubic feet but does not translate to gallons. One cubic foot equals 7.48 gallons.
Use can vary enormously. At the extreme is the experience of Al Scheinfeld, the owner of a 30-unit walk-up with an all-Chinese tenancy at 283 Grand Street. He has run a fabrics business, Fabricworld Textiles, on the ground floor since 1961. He bought the building two years later when it had 1,000 housing-code violations and nursed it over 20 years back to economic solvency. A year ago, with a $95,000 low-interest city loan, he did a moderate rehabilitation that included water metering.
''When I saw the last bill I thought there had to be a mistake,'' said Mr. Scheinfeld. For three months of service the bill was $7,900.
THE Water Department sent a representative to check the meter. It showed a staggering water use averaging 840 gallons per apartment per day for a nine-month period from last September through June.
Mr. Scheinfeld said he was unable to control the occupancy of the building, and that in some apartments water was in use around the clock, with ''shifts'' of tenants living there. He also said inspectors gave him a list of leaks to repair.
Many owners have paid close attention to the experience of the Rothschild Management Group, which owns seven water-metered properties with 420 apartments, mainly in Jamaica, Queens. The apartments are equipped with water-saving shower heads, aerators on faucets and toilets that use five gallons a flush as opposed to seven or eight in many toilets, said Alan Rothschild, a principal in the firm. Superintendents are trained to monitor water usage closely.
Mr. Rothschild reports a range in daily use from 187 gallons in a low-density building to 337 gallons in a high-density building, when the buildings are ''under control,'' without leaks. The main variable is the density of occupancy. But when there are unreported leaks, usage has gotten up to a rate of 450 gallons an apartment per day, he said. In one ''out of control'' building, the year's water and sewer bill would have been greater than the annual heating bill had it gone undiscovered.
''WE found the leak finally but the tenant hadn't reported it,'' he said. That is the case a third of the time when leaks are found, he said, despite owner exhortations. A single toilet constantly running probably wastes about 10 gallons of water a minute, he said.
The assumption is that metering will force owners to stop leaks quick ly, and that is exactly what most of those who have installed them have tried to do.
''Density hurts a little, but leaks hurt a lot,'' said Bruce Wittenberg, president of Rex Management Corpo ration, which operates 400 rentals in the Bronx. He metered seven build ings and found that unreported leaks were his main problem. In one River side Drive building daily consump tion ran 75 percent above normal because of a leak from a single toilet that a tenant had failed to report. Maintenance people finally traced it by checking pipes in the basement in the middle of the night.
Mr. Rothschild's figure of 337 gal lons of day for a high-density building that is under control is ''frightening,'' said Peter Judd, former director of the energy conservation unit in the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. But it is in line with data on water use in metered buildings rehabilitated for low-in come tenants by the city itself.
In six moderate rehabilitations done since 1985 average daily use ranged from 375 to 425 gallons per apartment per day, Mr. Judd said. ''We should be looking to the 170- gallon to 225-gallon-per-day aver age,'' he said.
Water bills, in short, are likely to be a major operating problem for New York City housing in the 90's.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (61%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); FLOW SENSORS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); 

PERSON: DAVID DIAMOND (92%); 



36 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Downtown

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
TEN years ago, residential Manhattan all but ceased at Chambers Street. To the northwest lay TriBeCa, to the northeast the Brooklyn Bridge, the government district and the outer fringes of Chinatown.
Below Chambers Street, human life all but disappeared after banks and brokerage houses closed for the day. Except for tourists waiting for the Statue of Liberty ferry, weekends were desolate.
But all that has changed, dramatically in some cases. Entire blocks have been created on what was once part of the Hudson River to form Battery Park City, a glittering enclave of apartment buildings and commercial towers. Older buildings that once housed offices are now homes, and some landmarks have been preserved and turned into co-ops. 
People who have moved in find much to recommend the area - sea breezes, spectacular views of the harbor, convenient public transportation and relative tranquility after hours.
''There's a terrific resurgence of community feeling down here, for the first time in hundreds of years,'' said Mother Barbara Crafton, the associate for mission at Trinity Church on Broadway at Wall Street. ''You can't tell by looking at the place that it's residential, but it is.''
The recent recolonization of Lower Manhattan is the city's development come full circle. In the 17th century, this was Nieuw Amsterdam, founded by the Dutch in 1626. Bowling Green, the squarish patch of grass at the foot of Broadway, was established as the city's first public park in the mid-17th century.
The area became a financial and government center in the 18th century, but gradually was all but deserted by residents. Its slow repopulation can be traced to the development of areas like South Street Seaport and Battery Park City, as well as the popularization of ''downtown chic,'' begun by artists moving into SoHo.
Some of New York City's oldest surviving buildings are here, including Fraunces Tavern, which includes a museum and a functioning restaurant side by side. St. Paul's Chapel, on Broadway at Vesey Street, is the only Colonial church still standing in New York City.
''It's a unique part of town, with all the architecture and the history,'' said Elyn Rosenthal, who has lived in a loft on Beaver Street for the last three years.
There is a diversity of housing styles, from Southbridge Towers, a Mitchell-Lama subsidized cooperative, to slick new luxury apartment buildings, some 30 or 40 stories high, like Liberty Court in Battery Park City. As the population has grown, so have some services like dry-cleaning establishments, although grocery stores remain few and far between.
Some local supermarkets, such as the Food Emporium on Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, let customers set up charge accounts and will deliver, said Paul Carberry, who lives in the former W. R. Grace headquarters at 3 Hanover Square. And 24-hour delicatessens have emerged for those who need ice cream or a quart of milk late at night.
There is a Red Apple in Battery Park City, a Gristede's in Southbridge Towers (and a second scheduled to open there by autumn) and a Sloan's on Madison Street, above the Brooklyn Bridge. Still, many residents say they go uptown for better prices and a wider selection. Another common complaint is that there are no movie theaters south of Canal Street, although a triplex is scheduled to open in Battery Park City next year.
There are local branches of Rizzoli Books, Brooks Brothers and Ann Taylor, and clusters of boutiques in Battery Park City and South Street Seaport. Restaurants range from the venerable Harry's, on Pearl Street, to the new Le Pactole, in the World Financial Center.
''People come here because costs are not as high as you find in other areas,'' said Paul Goldstein, district manager of Community Board 1 and a resident of Southbridge Towers, ''and many of them find nice spaces in older buildings.'' Prices in the area range widely, from $150,000 for a one-bedroom co-op to more than $1 million for a seven-room apartment, according to brokers. Availability also varies: There are long waiting lists for Southbridge's Mitchell-Lama apartments - the only ones in the area - with co-ops and condominiums easier to find.
There are problems in this emerging community. One neighborhood group, the Nassau Area Residents, has been trying to get better sanitation service, especially on weekends, when tourist-generated trash can be overwhelming. And subway station entrances open only during ''business hours'' are a source of annoyance.
As it has been in much of the rest of the city, the resale market has been flat or soft for some time now, brokers and residents say. And as activity in the financial markets has waned, some major construction projects meant to appeal to brokers and others in the financial district have been put on hold, leaving the neighborhood more intact than it might have been.
''Pie-eyed development seems to have come to a close,'' said Chuck Delaney, a photographer who has lived on Pearl Street since 1975. ''You can feel that something has changed'' since the stock market fell 500 points in 1987.
Cooperative apartments in the area have been hard hit by real estate taxes, mainly because they are often in commercial buildings that have been converted to residential use but that are still assessed at commercial rates, said James Roman, sales manager for the Halstead Property Company Downtown. Asking prices have been pushed down by maintenance fees that are far higher than for comparable space uptown, he added.
One-bedroom co-ops in such conversions listed with Halstead range from $147,500 to $395,000, with most of the high-priced listings around $295,000, Mr. Roman said. Two-bedroom apartments with two bathrooms range from $150,000, with a monthly maintenance of $1,800, up to $750,000 with a monthly maintenance of more than $3,000.
''You would have a doorman and an elevator man for half that in many other parts of Manhattan,'' said Mr. Roman of the $750,000 apartment package. ''Someone has to be sold on the neighborhood first before they make the investment.''
RENTS in Battery Park City, where there are 4,096 apartments, of which 2,251 are rentals and the rest condominiums, range from $1,200 to $1,800 for a one-bedroom. Resales there are somewhat stronger than in other parts of the city, said Julie Stevens, director of sales for Battery Park City Realty.
''If it is a well-priced apartment, we find it moves quickly,'' she said.
Prices for one-bedroom resales in Battery Park City range from $180,000 to $500,000, Ms. Stevens said. Two bedrooms generally run from $300,000 to $500,000, she said, although there are exceptions, like a two-bedroom duplex on the water that is listed at $1.8 million. Common charges range from $350 to $550 a month for one-bedrooms, she said.
Rentals in other parts of the area are available but are not as common as condominiums, of which there are 353, or co-ops, of which there are 2,719.
The life style is different, Ms. Rosenthal said, noting, for instance, that she and her husband, Barry - also a photographer - like to board the Staten Island Ferry early on weekend mornings and have a picnic breakfast.
Schools have become an issue recently, intensifying with the arrival of more people with young children, Mr. Goldstein said. Public School 234, built in 1988 at the corner of Chambers and Greenwich Streets in TriBeCa, is zoned for people living west of Broadway. For the others, the option is P.S. 126, on Catherine Street, which is closer to Chinatown. Parents and community members have been lobbying the Board of Education to redraw the zoning lines, but so far nothing has been done. On recent citywide reading tests, P.S. 234 ranked 87th and P.S. 126, 545th.
Children must leave the neighborhood for junior high school, and the only public high schools are Murray Bergtraum, a technical school, and the elite Stuyvesant High School, which will occupy a new building at the northern tip of Battery Park City by autumn.
 
Gazetteer
 
Population: 15,000 (1990 estimate).
 
Median price for a one-bedroom co-op: $150,000.
 
Median price for a one-bedroom condominium: $225,000.
 
Median one-bedroom rent: $1,450.
 
Government: Councilwoman Miriam Friedlander, Democrat.
 
Just in Case: Castle Clinton, at the foot of Battery Park, was built between 1807 and 1811 by New Yorkers worried about a naval invasion. Originally called West Battery and later named Fort Clinton for Gov. De Witt Clinton, it was built with cannons pointing out to sea, but they were never fired for defense. Over the next century and a half, the fort became a reception hall, a theater, an opera house, an immigration ''holding pen'' and an aquarium. In 1952, Congress declared it a national monument, and it continues to attract many visitors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hudson Riverwaterfront at Battery Park City; St. Paul's Chapel on Broadway at Vesey Street. (Vic Delucia/The New York Times); Map of Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: W R GRACE & CO (50%); FOOD EMPORIUM (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BATTERY PARK CITY (MANHATTAN)

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HARBORS & PORTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); POPULATION GROWTH (60%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (50%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



37 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2091 words

HEADLINE: Failure in Denver Hits Manhattan Co-op

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
Aftershocks from the collapse of the Silverado Savings and Loan Association in Denver are shaking a Manhattan cooperative near Lincoln Center, where residents have become the reluctant partners of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The failure of the Silverado, which until its demise in 1988 was one of the largest financial institutions in Colorado, put 141 of the 276 apartments in One Harkness Plaza, a 10-year-old building at 61 West 62d Street, in the hands of the Government. The apartments were among the assets seized by the F.D.I.C. when the bank went under.
Silverado is one of hundreds of savings and loan associations across the nation that have fallen apart in the last 18 months under the weight of bad loans and in some cases the free-spending ways of directors. But the involvement of Neil Bush, the President's son, who was on Silverado's board, and a Congressional investigation of the its former principals, has thrust Silverado into the spotlight. The House Banking Committee is looking into charges that Mr. Bush and other directors violated Federal conflict-of-interest rules by not disclosing their relationships with people to whom substantial loans were made. 
Since Federal officials stepped in last year to liquidate the Government's assets in the 26-story Harkness Plaza building, there has been little peace there. The F.D.I.C.'s involvement has set neighbor against neighbor as two camps on the co-op board battle each other at meetings and in court. One side sees no reason to fight the Government's liquidation plan, which calls for a bulk sale of the seized apartments to an investor, and looks forward to having a strong partner buoying the building; the other, concerned with protecting the value of shareholders' investments, is trying to block what it calls the ''fire sale'' of the apartments at only 25 percent of their original value.
Caroll Roos, the account manager for the F.D.I.C. who is in charge of the Harkness Plaza assets, confirmed that a contract is now pending to sell most of the seized apartments to a real-estate investment company, but he refused to name the company or say what it has agreed to pay.
At the heart of the dispute between the two factions on the co-op board is the potential economic impact of the F.D.I.C. sale on shareholders. Original buyers, who bought at insider prices when the building was converted from a rental in 1986, paid $300 a share, or about $180,000 for a typical two-bedroom apartment.
If the F.D.I.C. deal goes through, say board members who oppose the sale, the buyer will get the apartments for about $74 a share, or approximately $45,000 for a two-bedroom unit. The investor could then sell apartments for much less than the prices insiders paid for their units.
Some board members contend that the Government's bulk sale will substantially hurt the value of the apartments owned by tenant-shareholders. They accuse the Government's representatives of ignoring the F.D.I.C.'s legal mandate to protect the shareholders' investments. Other Harkness board members, including its president, Neil Goldstein, believe that what is best for the co-op at this point is for the shares to move into private ownership as quickly as possible.
THAT Harkness Plaza residents are entangled in a mess involving a defaulted bank 1,800 miles from New York can be traced to the financial troubles of the sponsors of the conversion, Robert Postel and Phillip DiSanza. And the complicated case shows the creeping nature of the savings-and-loan crisis, as well as the extent to which the homeowners can be touched by it.
Silverado acquired its Harkness shares - about 47 percent of the total - not from foreclosing on a defaulted loan, which usually happens when a bank or savings and loan takes over, but in the settlement of a suit against it by Mr. Postel and Mr. DiSanza.
Like other converters, they thought their project would succeed when they bought the building in 1983. The building, only three years old at the time, is on West 62d Street, opposite the New York State Theater in Lincoln Center, one of the city's most desirable neighborhoods. It had a high turnover rate for its rental units, which the sponsors hoped would increase the number of apartments they could sell at higher ''outsider'' prices. And many tenants were professional people with high incomes.
The sponsors ran into trouble, Mr. Postel said, when the building's inside buyers demanded costly concessions that led to a cash crunch before the conversion closed in 1986.
Among the most expensive was a demand by buyers that the sponsors reduce the building's second mortgage, held by the Beverly Hills (Calif.) Savings & Loan Association, by $10 million, to about $1.8 million, to lower maintenance costs. In buying the building, Mr. Postel and Mr. DiSanza had assumed a $22 million first mortgage held by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Another costly condition, Mr. Postel said, was giving inside buyers the option of selling their apartment shares back to the sponsor within six months of the conversion for $360 each, $60 more than they paid. Mr. Postel said the 25 buyers who elected this option cost him and his partner $4 million.
''The bottom line was that we had to come up with in excess of $10 million more than we expected,'' Mr. Postel said. To cover the shortfall, he and Mr. DiSanza took a short-term $14 million loan from the American Savings Bank.
After 130 units were sold, mostly to tenants, sales slowed to a trickle, Mr. Postel said, partly as a result of a glut of new condominiums in the neighborhood.
''We were facing a serious crunch,'' Mr. Postel said, ''American Savings Bank held the shares on the unsold apartments as collateral and would be able to take them over in the case of a default.''
Mr. Postel and Mr. DiSanza approached Silverado for an $18 million loan to enable them to pay off American Savings Bank and to help defray their maintenance costs for unsold apartments, some of which were warehoused and had no tenants. Mr. Postel contends that, as part of the deal, Silverado required him and Mr. DiSanza to take over a mortgage Silverado held on a Denver housing complex known as Tara Woods. That additional mortgage obligation meant they had to increase the amount they borrowed from Silverado to $22.4 million.
They agreed, but the deal soured a few months after it was completed, and Mr. Postel and Mr. DiSanza sued Silverado, charging it had made the loan under fraudulent terms.
''Silverado had vastly overestimated the value of the property in Denver,'' said Mr. Postel, who was ill at the time and unable to inspect Tara Woods personally before the closing. ''They presented us with appraisals saying that it was worth at least $12 million. We found out that a $5 million value was closer to the mark.''
Silverado, in a complicated settlement approved by Judge Robert J. Ward of Federal District Court in Manhattan, agreed to relieve Mr. Postel and Mr. DiSanza of liability for the Tara Woods mortgage and the loan on the Harkness shares. In exchange, Silverado took control of the Harkness shares.
Less than a year later, Silverado went bankrupt, setting the stage for the turmoil on West 62d Street.
''AS far as I can see,'' said Owen McCormack, a resident and board member who is opposed to the F.D.I.C.'s bulk-sale plan, ''the sale is going forward with a total disregard for the shareholders' welfare. But what troubles me even more is that the F.D.I.C.'s representatives in this case have kept crucial information from shareholders.''
Mr. McCormack said, for example, that Eastdil Realty, the company hired by the Government as consultant on the management and sale of apartments, filed an amendment describing the sales plan with the New York State Attorney General's office in August 1989, but did not distribute them to the resident shareholders until February 1990. The Attorney General's rules require that all shareholders receive amendments as soon as they are filed.
Mr. McCormack said that the delay prevented resident shareholders from organizing a joint effort to buy and market the seized apartments themselves. He has filed complaints with the F.D.I.C. and the State Attorney General's office in an effort to halt the proceedings. Mr. McCormack has also sued the co-op corporation in New York State Supreme Court, challenging the right of three F.D.I.C. representatives on the board to vote the Government's shares.
George Pieczenik, another board member who opposes the bulk-sale plan, says he feels the F.D.I.C.'s handling of the Harkness shares violates its own rules.
''The rules require that our interests be considered in any liquidation process,'' Mr. Pieczenik said, referring to Section 212 (h) of the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, which requires the F.D.I.C. to consider any adverse economic impact of a liquidation on local communities. ''It seems to me that a fire sale of apartments is not in keeping with those rules.''
Both Mr. Pieczenik and Mr. McCormack said that if a bulk sale cannot be avoided, tenant-shareholders should be included in the bidding process.
Nancy Kramer, deputy director of the financial services bureau in the Attorney General's office, said the agency found no cause to stop the F.D.I.C.'s bulk sale of Harkness shares.
Neil Goldstein, the president of the Harkness board, said he is ''neutral'' about F.D.I.C.'s role. ''But I do believe,'' he said, ''that it is in the best interest of the co-op to have a responsible and legitimate real estate concern take over the shares so we can go to lenders next year when our mortgage comes due with a financially stable partner.''
Mr. Roos, who is handling the Harkness Plaza case for the F.D.I.C. and who now has a seat on the co-op board, defended his agency's strategy. He said that given the dramatic downturn in the residential real estate market in New York it would have been irresponsible to try to sell the units individually - as some shareholders would have liked - rather than as a package.
''The F.D.I.C. as a fiduciary has a mandate to preserve value of its collateral for the estate,'' he said, ''in this case Silverado Bank. But even though that responsibility does involve liquidations, we do have the impact in mind in every case.''
Even with the offer of a bulk sale of the apartments - some of which have Hudson River views - the F.D.I.C. had trouble attracting bids. Mr. Roos said that after sending marketing material to more than 100 potential investors, it received only two bids high enough for serious consideration.
Arthur Beckerman, a partner in Coronet Properties, a Manhattan real estate investment concern that reviewed and rejected the Harkness share offer, said he thought the $9.5 million asking price was too high, even though he acknowledged the value of the building's location and the fact that most units for sale are empty.
''WHEN you are looking for investments of this type there are many things to consider,'' he said, ''and the price is only one of them. There are all kinds of things that affect the value of unsold shares. There is the building's condition, any shortfalls between rents and maintenance and the building's overall financial situation.''
Mr. Beckerman said his company, which has been an active buyer of both occupied and vacant apartments recently, was especially concerned about the high maintenance charges on Harkness Plaza units, on average about $1,300 a month, and about the corporation's legal entanglements.
Mortgage payments account for about half of shareholders' maintenance payments.
Moreover, the cooperative is currently involved in litigation with the sponsors over unpaid rents on the building's commercial spaces. The co-op is also named as a co-defendant in a suit involving the sponsors' charges that Douglas Elliman, Gibbons & Ives, the real estate management and brokerage company in charge of the original sales campaign for the Harkness apartments, failed to meet its contractual obligations as the marketing agent for the building.
Mr. Goldstein, the president of the co-op board, is just one of many Harkness Plaza residents who hope that life there will soon return to normal.
''Nobody here is happy about what has happened over the past year,'' he said. ''But it looks like we are going to get through it. What matters now is that we get on with the business of making Harkness Plaza a good place to live and a good investment for the shareholders.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The collapse of the Silverado Savings and Loan Association in Denver, bottom left, put into government hands 141 apartments in One Harkness Plaza, white building at center, at 61 West 62d Street. (Jack Manning/The New York Times; Glen Martin/The Denver Post); Two Harkness board members, Owen McCormack and George Pieczenic, opose the bulk-sale plan. (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Neil Goldstein, president of the Harkness board, sais the apartments should move quickly into private ownership. (Linda M. Baron for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); F D I C (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILVERADO BANKING SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; COOPERATIVES; BANKRUPTCIES SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ASSET FORFEITURE (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G ROBERT POSTEL (68%); PHILLIP DISANZA (61%); 



38 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Postings: Howard Beach Offices;
Out of Retirement to Build Again

 BODY:
In an effort to broaden the economic base of Howard Beach, Queens, a local developer has created a sleek, two-story office building on the community's main commercial strip. The Pan-Bay Office Building, at 156-36 Cross Bay Boulevard, was completed at a cost of $2 million by Attillio W. Panzarella, who came out of retirement in Scottsdale, Ariz., to realize his vision of giving his old neighborhood an economic boost. The developer, now 70 years old, returned to A. J. Panzarella Realty to pursue the project.
The building, which looks like a cross between a slide rule and a carpenter's level, is wedged between two others on the boulevard, where Mr. Panzarella built a shopping center in 1959.
Clad in brick, aluminum and tinted bronze insulated glass, the 21,000-square-foot building, was designed by Miele Associates of Middle Village, Queens. It offers 8,000 square feet on the ground floor and 13,000 on the second at $21 a square foot. It got an eight-year city tax abatement that will be passed along to tenants when they sign on.
''I would have built an office building eight stories high,'' said Mr. Panzarella, ''but we're on the landing path of JFK and can't go any higher than 33 feet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOWARD BEACH (NYC)

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); 

PERSON: PANZARELLA, ATTILLIO W MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



39 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Family Life Education: Needed Now More Than Ever

BYLINE: By Susan N. Wilson; Susan N. Wilson of Princeton served on the State Board of Education when the family life education policy was adopted.

 BODY:
THIS year marks the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the policy requiring family life education in the New Jersey public schools.
New Jerseyans led the nation in requiring family life education programs. Since New Jersey took the lead, 20 more states have adopted mandates for family life and sexuality education programs, many based on our model.
With the exception of requiring education on HIV-AIDS prevention, state education policy makers have taken no action in the last decade to strengthen family life education programs. Now more than ever, new initiatives are needed. 
Legislation proposed by the Florio administration requires the State Board of Education to develop core concepts and principles that apply to all public schools for science, geography, history and the arts ''as part of the preparation of individuals to function politically, economically and socially in a democratic society.'' The omission of family life education from this list is dismaying.
Family life education focuses on preparing young people to function socially in a democratic society better than any other school program. Family life education requires instruction in four areas: interpersonal relationships, human growth development and sexuality, responsible personal behavior and building strong families. None of the other subjects listed in the legislation aim to help children and youth make safe, responsible and healthy decisions about their personal lives. None offer opportunities for the discussion of feelings and values, and none give students opportunities to develop communication, refusal and decision-making skills.
By excluding family life education from the legislation, administration policy makers are refusing to look directly at the problems affecting New Jersey youth. They are ignoring the fact that 50 percent of high school students have sexual intercourse before the end of school; they are ignoring the high rates of unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases among teen-agers.
Alone, family life education cannot solve all these societal problems, many of which are caused by poverty and lack of life options, but experts agree that early and comprehensive school programs can help to prevent them.
Ten years ago, the support for family life education was strong in all areas of New Jersey; no evidence suggests that the support has flagged. In 1985, for example, a statewide poll showed that ''sex education in the schools is a consensus issue because it is supported by over 90 percent of New Jerseyans.'' Only a very small minority still opposes instruction.
Omitting family life education from the list of major curriculums will weaken its importance in school districts. The Report of the New Jersey Task Force on Adolescent Pregnancy (1988) calls for strengthening primary prevention programs. The study asks more resources to strengthen local implementation of the mandate, more funds for teacher training, school personnel and agency staff and better resource materials in Spanish and other languages for parents.
Students are supporters of family life education. Seniors at a Middlesex County high school recently said their 12th grade program provided needed information about sexuality, AIDS, contraception and pregnancy. They recommended, however, that all the information they received in the 12th grade be offered in the seventh grade. They said earlier information would cut down on the number of unintended pregnancies in their school.
Students in Monmouth County also wanted better family life education. They said their peers ''don't know the facts, they just know hearsay,'' because ''they give us sexual education in our senior year, and that's not enough.''
We should listen to students' appeals for solid programs that help them make responsible decisions about their personal behavior.
Of course, it is important that students know about science, geography, history and the arts, but they also need to know about their personal, sexual and family relationships. They need to know about postponing sexual involvement until adulthood or marriage. They need to know how to protect themselves from unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted disease. They need to understand the difficulties of teen-agers' raising children. They need to understand about love and trust, respect for self and respect for others.
Without good family life programs, students in public schools will not receive a complete education. Programs will improve if the State Board of Education develops core concepts and principles. Administration officials and legislators should amend the bills to include family life education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION FAMILY (92%); SEX EDUCATION (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 



40 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Varied Views on Gun Control

 BODY:
The New Jersey Legislature recently took a first mincing step and passed a gun-control law, long overdue.
Gun owners need to be reminded this is the end of the 20th century, not the middle of the 18th or 19th. The West is secured, and people in our settlements fear Indians much less than raiding government bureaucrats. We are a crowded and compact society, and regulation, like it or not, is king. 
As a dentist coping with government controls and regulations, I cannot resist comparing my position with that of the gun lobbyists.
To establish a perspective: my annual gross is in the modest six figures. My economic impact on the community is negligible; dental offices are not socio-economic power hitters. I do not have the administrative or clerical resources of a major corporation. All that notwithstanding, let me describe some of what must be done to conform to government regulations.
I file form 941 every payday, 940 every quarter, NJ 500 monthly. At appropriate times during the year I file forms BPPT, NJW3, WR30, UC27B, CBT-200T, CBT-100, 7004, 1120, TB32, 940-EZ and BPT-1.
I am registered or licensed by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency, the New Jersey Department of Labor, the State Treasurer, the New Jersey Department of Health, the New Jersey Consumers Division, the New Jersey Secretary of State and the Wyckoff Fire Department.
The pension plan covering me and my employees necessitates filing Schedule P form 5500 R ''and/or forms 5500-C, or EZ where indicated.'' Also schedules A, T and B form 5500. After the schedules comes the PA census form, then forms 2848, 5307, W-2p and 5300.
The above list is incomplete. These are only the regulations requiring payment. There are perhaps half again as many requiring no payment. Accounting fees for guidance through this maze are $5,000 a year.
Since time immemorial, the Drug Enforcement Agency has required us to file an annual drug inventory. Starting in 1987, it required that we also record and keep forever the names of the patients we dispensed to. So I stopped storing and dispensing. If a patient needs a narcotic, I write a prescription.
Now that New Jersey has promoted me from dentist to Regulated Medical Waste Generator, I pay a $528.50 annual registration fee to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection so it can track my six ounces of medical waste. To satisfy the department, I file tracking forms (''boxes 1-15 completed, retain copy 4; supply copies 1-3 to regulated medical waste transporter''), and retain (again in perpetuity) daily/monthly logs of the fractions of ounces of regulated medical waste generated.
Because I have three employees, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration requires me to identify clearly all Hazmats, maintain a Hazmat list, have a Hazcom program, retain attendance records from our Hazmat training program, keep MSDS's (form OMB 1218-0072) readily available for employee inspection and display OSHA form 2203 prominently.
In summary, to run my little practice, which is likely to harm no one, I have to be licensed or registered with nine government agencies and fill out at least 32 different forms (with accompanying payments) at varying intervals during the year.
Keep in mind that I'm one of the good guys. I give the community no trouble. The cops know me only from my contributions to the P.B.A. I obey the law, pay my taxes, work 10-hour days and associate with no known hoodlums. During lulls in the paper work, I manage to see the patients and possibly relieve pain.
Then the gun lobby tells me guns, bullets and their owners shouldn't be controlled. Baloney.
 
WALTER J. KENT, D.D.S.
 Wyckoff
The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number and be addressed to The Editor, New Jersey Weekly, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

GRAPHIC: Photo of semiautomatic weapons confiscated by state police (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (55%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION GUN CONTROL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DENTISTRY (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (65%); CENSUS (51%); 

PERSON: KENT, WALTER J



41 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 24, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: ART;
For Diverse Reasons, an Exodus Of County Arts Administrators

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

 BODY:
IT would seem that art professionals in Westchester are dropping like flies. As of today, Dominique Nahas no longer heads the State University's Neuberger Museum in Purchase; Barbara Bloemink joins the line of Hudson River Museum ex-directors; and Christopher Bruhl concludes his reign over the county's Council for the Arts. The Rye Arts Center, meanwhile, continues its search for an administrator to replace Christina Banks, who left on June 13.
Are these symptoms of a local malaise or are they a sign of the times? 
Mr. Bruhl terms the changes ''coincidental,'' each the result of different circumstances. Looking back at his own job, the former director described it in a recent telephone conversation as a matter of ''building up the arts in Westchester,'' raising and redistributing money (to artists as well as arts organizations) and ''cheerleading so they won't feel lonely.''
After 14 years with the council, 10 of them as director, Mr. Bruhl said it was time for him to move on. But the change comes at a difficult moment, what with the National Endowment for the Arts in crisis and, by implication, the state, county and city agencies, too. And when it comes to dividing up the financial pie, the arts are finding themselves - rather suddenly - in competition with social programs.
Mr. Bruhl said that ''the social needs of the county are enormous.'' He also said that ''the arts are every bit as important as education or solid-waste disposal.''
Noting that the major cutback in Federal financing took place a decade ago, under the Reagan Administration, Mr. Bruhl pointed out that $170 million accorded the National Endowment works out to 70 cents per head of the population, and that the state council's $280,000 costs the state taxpayer $3.10 (the figures are approximate). He compared these figures with the savings and loan bailout, in which estimates of the cost run to thousands of dollars per capita.
Where is the culture money to come from? Apparently, not from the Westchester corporations, whose contribution, Mr. Bruhl said, ''has been minimal.'' Now, it must come from individuals - presumably just as soon as they have taken care of the savings and loan problem.
The Arts Council director has joined another nonprofit organization in Connecticut, but there, he will be dealing with economic development as it pertains to education and transportation. When asked if the state of the arts had anything to do with leaving Westchester, he replied: ''On the contrary, it is at times like these that our agencies come into their own.''
Sven Carlin was bullish on the subject of the Rye Arts Center, where he is chairman of the board. The departure of Ms. Banks was, he said, ''by mutual agreement'' He said the center now needs an administrator ''to work closely with the board and make professional presentations that will attract corporate patrons.''
The center was started 30 years ago by five couples with $250 and a vision of Rye as ''the Athens of the Sound.'' They ran their art school in, among other places, a barn, the upstairs of a Woolworth's on Purchse Street and the basement of a Presbyterian church, until they found the present premises at 51 Milton Road in the early 1970's.
Though evicted in 1984, the group reached an agreement with the city whereby they paid $1 a year rent and fixed up the 200-year-old building itself. Three years and $1.2 million later, the group was back in business.
Mr. Carlin said the center's budget had gone to $400,000 from $40,000 - hence the need for a professional capable of the kind of balancing act expected of museum directors. ''We have never had Federal funding,'' the chairman said, and ''the individual kind is running dry.''
Citing the artists among the board's 40 members, Mr. Carlin dismissed a suggestion that fiscal stability achieved in this way could jeopoardize esthetic standards.
As for the Hudson River Museum, Ms. Bloemink's departure has yet to be announced and the board president, Joyce Green, did not return phone calls. So it remains only to say that within the decade since Richard Koshalek left for the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, the Hudson River Museum has seen a series of directors, of whom Peter Langlykke seemed the most adept at reconciling the museum's requirements with those of a diverse community.
The most significant of the departures is that by Dominique Nahas from the Neuberger Museum. Ensconced on a campus that is not 20 years old and is isolated to boot, the Neuberger is one of the university's two public attractions (the other is the Performing Arts Center). The university's primary purpose is education and the academic departments have to compete with the arts for money, if only to insure a flow of distinguished alumni.
A university museum has a certain freedom that is denied its independent counterparts - it doesn't have to produce blockbusters, but can entertain smaller and more experimental shows. The ideal director for any kind of museum is one who provides leadership, initiates shows, cooperates with but is not dominated by the board and (not in his or her spare time) raises money by cultivating existing benefactors and finding new ones. Notwithstanding the growing difficulties of running a museum, such paragons do exist.
By his own admission, Mr. Nahas is not one of them. ''I have a one-track mind,'' he said in an interview recently, and it is obvious that the track leads directly to exhibitions. At the same time, he realizes that the director of a university museum must act as a kind of universal joint between the board, the campus administration, students and faculty and the public.
Not that Mr. Nahas had much time to put his wisdom into effect. Director of the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse for nearly five years, he lasted only 10 months at the Neuberger. Yet this was long enough to impress the dean of fine arts, George Parrino, who said that he regretted not being able to see the ''fruits of his vision'' but otherwise kept his own counsel, as have other bystanders. The atmosphere at the Neuberger is tense.
One definition of an ideal board would be a group of individuals committed to art but not necessarily well informed about it. They would know the difference between a rented show and one generated by their own museum and they would see themselves as part of a collective personality. Whether the Neuberger board approaches this ideal is unclear.
But it is certain that the need has developed for directors who are not only paragons but who also come on like MBA's is widespread. It seems, too, that museum boards too often feel compelled to act like corporations, even though the only profit they can show is prestige.
The president of the Purchase school, Sheldon Grebstein, has announced a search committee consisting of himself, the senior vice president for academic affairs, Nathaniel Siegel, and the assistant vice president for organized activities, Deanne Molinari. They don't have much time: the capital campaign is due in November.

GRAPHIC: Photos; Dominique Nahas served as director of the Neuberger Museum for only 10 months (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Barbara Bloemink is reported to be leaving as director of Hudson River Museum (Hudson river Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: ART; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN CHRISTOPHER BRUHL (90%); SVEN CARLIN (62%); 



42 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 16, Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Broader View Of Drugs in the Suburbs

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
LEE P. BROWN, Commissioner of the New York City Police Department, said in a speech here on Tuesday that it is ''wrong and dangerous'' to regard drug abuse and its criminal consequences as an inner-city scourge threatening the suburbs.
''Addicts and pushers are too busy finding the money to get high or get fixed'' to commute to the suburbs, Mr. Brown told a luncheon audience at the White Plains Hotel. Rather, he said, ''the reverse is true: so-called recreational users travel to our cities to purchase drugs.''
Failing to recognize the full scope of the nation's drug problem ''sows the seeds of divisiveness which contributes to social disharmony and prejudice,'' the Commissioner told the 92 people attending the yearly meeting of the Westchester Council on Crime and Delinquency. 
 
Broad Approach Is Stressed
The 34-year-old council, based here, is a nonprofit organization that promotes citizen involvement in criminal-justice issues and monitors developments in the field. It is the only local affiliate in the state of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency, whose members include Mr. Brown.
The Commissioner, who was appointed by Mayor David N. Dinkins in January, emphasized the country's need for a ''holistic'' approach to a spectrum of social ills, including the deterioration of the nuclear family, joblessness and the resulting disabling effects on children.
''Enforcement is a valuable tool,'' Mr. Brown said, ''but the better part of the answer lies in demanding reduction through education.''
 
Children at Risk
Mr. Brown cited statistics showing dramatic increases in cocaine abuse among pregnant women, which has raised the incidence of infant mortality, as well as the increases in the deaths of children from drug-related abuse or neglect. He also warned that young people were more likely to buy drugs from a friend than from a pusher because of peer pressure. ''It's not just inner-city children who are at risk, but the entire nation's children who are at risk,'' he said.
The Commissioner, who holds several master's degrees and a doctorate degree in criminology, called on the business community to ''fund youth activities'' that would occupy the after-school and vacation time of latch-key children in particular.
Jobs should be found for teen-agers, he urged, to ''help them get a jump on the corporate ladder and provide an opportunity to see what a drug-free life style can be like.''
 
A 'Drug-Free Corps'
Mr. Brown suggested offering scholarships to urban youths as ''a way out of the ghetto.'' In addition, he proposed a ''domestic drug-free corps'' along the lines of the Peace Corps, in which college students would help tutor and counsel young people.
In return, the students would be relieved of their obligation to repay educational loans or would receive special consideration when applying for Federal or state loans for graduate studies.
After Mr. Brown's speech, Robert M. Maccarone, the county's Director of Criminal Justice Services, said the corps proposal was a ''very worthwhile idea,'' since it might induce more young people to enter the drug-counseling field. ''One of our largest problems is a deficit in personnel, not money,'' Mr. Maccarone said.
In stressing the need for educational programs to reduce the demand for drugs, Mr. Brown cited New York City's School Program to Educate and Control Drug Abuse, which combines classroom teaching teams composed of school and community figures with narcotics teams working near schools in high-risk neighborhoods.
 
Opposes Legalization
The Commissioner said he was opposed to legalizing drugs, not only because of the ''monstrous economic, medical and hidden legal costs'' that he predicted would follow, but also because ''the wrong signal'' would be sent to young people.
Rather, he said, people need ''the willpower as a country'' to develop effective social policies - such as a commitment to ''full employment.''
Mr. Brown called the $400 million that has been allotted to state and local governments for drug programs ''a drop in the bucket.''
''It doesn't make sense to have a war on drugs without the resources,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Lee P. Brown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON CRIME & DELINQUENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNCIL ON CRIME AND DELINQUENCY (NY)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SUBURBS SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); SUBURBS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); COCAINE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FAMILY (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (66%); INFANT MORTALITY (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA; BROWN, LEE P (COMR) LEE P BROWN (96%); 



43 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 10, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: A Changing Mortgage Market in County

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
THREE years ago, during the real estate boom, a professional couple in their 30's sold their ''starter'' house, a small two-bedroom in Harrison, for $150,000. By stretching their budget to the limits, they bought a three-bedroom split level in Rye for $295,000.
''We took an adjustable rate mortgage from the bank, with a special rate of 8 percent for the first year,'' said the husband, who asked that his name not be published. ''It looked like we were getting a good deal, but now we're paying the piper: every month we're falling further behind.''
Not only have their mortgage payments risen by about $5,000, but their real estate taxes have gone up, too. And they recently discovered that they needed a new furnace. 
''We're stretched too thin now and I don't know what we're going to do,'' his wife said. ''We thought about sell ing. But the couple next door, whose house is almost identical to ours - it's a little nicer, actually - put their place up for sale three months ago but they've had very few lookers and no offers. The market is dead.''
 
Effort to Prevent Defaults
But few mortgage lenders will take steps to start foreclosure proceedings without exploring every alternative, said William J. Foley, vice president for public affairs at the New York League of Savings Institutions, a trade group based in Scarsdale.
''Banks are anxious to prevent defaults,'' Mr. Foley said. ''They don't want to have to take over residential real estate in this type of market.''
Delinquent loans in the fourth quarter of 1989, the latest period for which figures are available, were 4.3 percent of all loans. This compares with a delinquent loan rate of 2.8 in the fourth quarter of 1988.
Until about a year ago, Mr. Foley said, ''Westchester was a self-contained unit. Houses, especially expensive ones, were selling well. But now the county is more like the rest of the state. Loan demand is weak. Mortgage volume is half of what it was last year. And compared with 1987, a banner year, last year's figures were not good.''
 
Stricter Handling of Loans
Even competition for mortgage business, Mr. Foley said, is down: ''Regulators are requiring that lenders have heavier reserves. No one is making questionable loans today. And teaser rates, such as 7 or 8 percent for the first year, are pretty well a thing of the past.''
The prevailing rate today for a 15-year fixed-rate home mortgage in the county is 9.75, plus 2 1/2 points; for a 30-year mortgage, the rate is 9.875, plus 2 1/2 points.
In the wake of the savings and loan disaster, Mr. Foley said, the industry has become more heavily controlled.
But Richard Komosinski, president of the Yonkers Savings and Loan Bank, which has been in business for more than 100 years, said that well-run banks have always imposed strict loan requirements.
''Today, it's hard to stand up and say that you're a banker,'' he said. ''All the savings and loans are getting an undeserved bad press because of the activities of a few. When they deregulated the banking industry, the regulators didn't watch what was going on and a lot of questionable people entered the industry. Now all of us are paying, including the lending institutions. Our insurance premiums, for example, have risen from $195,000 a year to $245,000.''
Mr. Komosinski said his bank has had no foreclosures this year. ''Whenever we see someone falling behind, we bend over backward to work with them on a one-to-one basis,'' he explained.
 
A Way to Work Things Out
Yonkers Savings and Loan's four offices, all in Yonkers, make the majority of mortgage loans to neighborhood people.
''The people on our board are local,'' Mr. Komosinski said. ''They know our customers, we know our customers and we know that most of their financial difficulties are temporary, the type that are caused by a personal or family crisis. They are stable people. We don't want to push them into foreclosure; we prefer to help them find a way out by working with them.''
Michael R. Pulver, manager of the Sibley Mortgage Corporation in Elmsford, said his company began to experience an increasing demand for mortgages in mid-June.
''It was kind of unexpected,'' Mr. Pulver said, ''I think a lot of the activity was because of the decrease in interest rates. People seemed to sense it was going to be short-lived and took advantage of it.''
Unlike banks, Mr. Pulver explained, mortgage bankers offer nothing but first mortgage and home-equity loans. The funds for mortgage-bank lending come from not one, but several, private investors.
''Because we do mortgage financing and nothing else, we're able to offer a wide variety of mortgage options at very competitive rates,'' Mr. Pulver said. ''And as we see it, the mortgage picture is not as bleak as it has been generally presented. We haven't had any defaults. Back in 1987, when houses were going up in value 25 percent a year, there were a lot of loans made based on future appreciation of house prices. But as appreciation has slowed, customers' assets and wages are getting prime consideration when we make our loan decisions.''
 
Loans to the Elderly
The Hudson Valley National Bank, also headquartered in Yonkers, is making fully verified loans only, said Elizabeth M. Lindberg, vice president and mortgage officer. ''Business is slow but fairly steady,'' she said. ''We have an excellent mortgage portfolio. We have never had a foreclosure.''
Hudson Valley, in conjunction with the county, is sponsoring for the second year what Ms. Lindberg referred to as ''a reverse-mortgage program'' - loans to elderly homeowners.
Unlike a home-equity loan, the borrower receives a monthly payment from the bank. No monthly payback is required, however, until 10 years have elapsed, when the total sum, with interest, is expected.
''Last year, we were approached by the county,'' Ms. Lindberg explained, ''and in the interest of helping the community we made $5 million available to elderly homeowners in loans, and recently we've added an additional $5 million for use in the loan program.''
 
A Loan, Not a Gift
The loans, she said, are offered at a competitive rate to older customers: ''It's currently 10 percent - the same terms we offer for our 15-year mortgage. The loans are loans, not a gift.''
The program is administered for the county by Westchester Residential Opportunities, a nonprofit agency that receives $17,500 a year from the county for its administration costs.
''Basically, the program helps older people convert the equity they have built up in their homes to cash,'' said Doris Schear, the mortgage program's director. ''Without it, many of them would be forced to sell their homes. We've tried for years - five or six actually - to get a bank involved and get the program off the ground. But we couldn't do a thing until Hudson Valley agreed to make the loans. We had 350 inquiries in the first year and we made 37 loans to older homeowners.''
 
Who Is Eligible
According to Ms. Schear, anyone older than 60 can borrow up to $125,000, which includes interest costs, against the equity in their home. The money may be borrowed in a lump sum or taken out in monthly installments for a period of 10 years.
Reviewing several case histories, Ms. Schear cited a spirited woman in her 70's, with a passion for travel but no disposable income.
''Her chief asset is her house, which is worth about $400,000, but she's not ready to sell it and leave Westchester,'' Mrs. Schear said. ''Yet, she said she wanted to take a few trips while she's still mobile. With the money she got from the loan, she's going to travel and have a good time. She has a plan. In a few years, she intends to sell her home, pay back the loan, and with the remaining money move to an inexpensive place in Florida.''
 
Medical Bills and Taxes
One infirm couple in their 80's who received a loan were anxious to stay in their own home as long as possible but needed the money because of medical bills and the rise in the cost of living.
''A nationwide profile for the typical person in the program is a 74-year-old widow who owns her own home, free and clear, but lives on an income of less than $800 a month,'' Ms. Schear said. ''Our people fall into every category. We have a family, for instance, in which the husband is in his late 60's and is still working, but he's not making enough to keep up with the bills and the rise in taxes.''
Another family consistsof an elderly mother and her middle-aged son, who is mildly retarded. ''The mother had used up most of her resources and she was frantic because the son's small disability payment wasn't enough to make ends meet,'' Ms. Schear said.
''It's a loan, not a gift,'' she noted. ''People fully understand that they are expected to repay it with interest at the end of the term. The big advantage of having it is that it buys people more time to live in their homes.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; Doris Schear, the director of a reverse-mortgage loan program designed for elderly homeowners, explaining the loan arrangement to a potential applicant (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIBLEY MORTGAGE CORP (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 



44 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Savings Bailout Irks State Officials

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
REPORTS that the Federal cleanup of the savings and loan disaster will result in Connecticut residents paying $1,237 a person more to rescue the failed thrifts than they will receive in bailout benefits has angered state lawmakers and banking officials, and last week several were looking for ways to offset the situation.
''We seem to be getting a double whammy,'' said the State Banking Commissioner, Howard B. Brown. Federal regulators have already put severe restrictions on still-solvent Connecticut institutions, he said, resulting in a credit crunch, and now the Federal bailout program will require Connecticut residents to rescue savings and loans in other states.
''There must be a more equitable manner of dealing with this,'' Mr. Brown said. He said he had already contacted Federal officials about the situation and planned to talk with the Governor's staff to determine what steps the state could take to offset it. 
United States Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of New Haven, and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of East Haddam, said they would press for investigations of the savings and loan industry. ''The only way to ameliorate the anger and frustration people in states like Connecticut are feeling,'' said Mr. Dodd, ''is to go after - hammer and tongs - the people who are responsible.''
Both Senators said they might seek to use the fact that Connecticut will be a big loser under the bailout program as leverage in getting other Federal aid for Connecticut, for housing or transportation or a program to save defense jobs. ''After this, I think they owe us a big one,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''There's the matter of equity here,'' he continued. ''There's a transfer of money going on here that is enormous, and one that we cannot afford, because our own economy is vulnerable right now.''
All taxpayers will pay the same amount under the Government's $203 billion bailout of the savings and loan industry, but many economists and politicians have concluded that it will result in a significant transfer of wealth from the Northeast and Middle West to Texas and other states in the Southwest, where the savings and loan failures are concentrated. This shift, they say, will result in a stronger economy in the Southwest in the years ahead and a weaker economy for most other states.
But one financial expert said Connecticut should not complain too loudly, because the financial troubles being faced by the state's own savings institutions could result in a number of bailouts here. ''We may end up very happy there is this kind of a rule on the books,'' said Lewis Mandell, a professor of finance at the University of Connecticut who is a consultant for the United States Comptroller of the Currency and is writing an article for Grolier's Encyclopedia on the savings and loan problems. ''All the bailouts aren't over yet, and Connecticut may be in for its share.''
He noted that the state-chartered Savings Bank of Brooklyn is in serious trouble, and the Community Federal Savings Bank of Bridgeport is on the list of vulnerable institutions compiled by the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency that is trying to develop plans for troubled savings and loans.
The savings and loan failures were ''stupid'' and are ''going to be very costly,'' Dr. Mandell said. ''But what is the alternative?'' If the Federal Government does not bail out the banks, the depositors lose their savings, he said, and the real estate speculators would be no worse off than they are now.
The money to keep the banks solvent will come out of income taxes, and because Connecticut residents earn more, they will pay more. Also, because so few banks have failed in Connecticut - one federally chartered bank closed last November in Meriden but reopened within a week after it was purchased by another bank - few of the dollars paid into the bailout fund will flow back to Connecticut.
 
Loss of $1,237 a Person
An analysis of the plan to save ailing savings and loans around the country, compiled by Prof. Edward W. Hill of Cleveland State University, showed that the net cost per person in Connecticut will be $1,237. In only three other states and the District of Columbia, will the cost exceed $1,000 a person. In all, 37 states will lose money under the bailout plan, and 13, most of them in the Southwest, will gain.
The biggest winner will be Texas, where the net cash inflow will be $4,775 per person, according to Professor Hill's analysis.
He estimated a total bailout cost of $203 billion, but Dr. Mandell said it could approach $300 billion, and some say it could go higher than that.
The problem is particularly troubling, Mr. Brown said, because while Federal regulators are seeking massive amounts of money from Connecticut's economy to pay for the bailout, they are taking steps that will slow the state's economy down.
Mr. Brown said Federal examiners left the failed savings and loans of Texas and came to Connecticut earlier this year and began imposing strict limits on bad loans.
Even state-chartered savings institutions have to comply with some Federal regulations, including requirements about reserves. An institution must put some of its surplus or capital into a reserve to cover loans that are not being paid on time and might go into default. Mr. Brown said that before this year, Federal regulators required 35 or 40 percent in reserves, but they have boosted that to about 66 percent.
 
Fresh in the Minds
''The rules are being applied much more stringently in the Northeast than they have been in the past,'' Mr. Brown said. He blamed that on the fact that the Texas disasters were still fresh in the minds of the examiners, and they want to prevent that from happening again in Connecticut.
''Had regulators been doing their job as diligently all along as they are in Connecticut now, none of this would have happened,'' Dr. Mandell said. He said if the first losses in Texas in 1981 and 1982 triggered a similar response, the losses might have been contained to $50 billion.
''The real scandal is that they took some of the toughest and best administrators and tried to put them in Texas, and the bankers and their politician friends forced them out,'' Dr. Mandell said.
A result of the new rules on reserves is that banks are showing less of a profit, which is causing their stock prices to plunge. As a result, Mr. Brown said, banks are tightening up credit, so they do not have to put so much into reserves. Lending activity at federally chartered banks in Connecticut has dropped $1.2 billion since last September, while at state-chartered banks, it has dropped about $640 million.
''The mind set of certain bankers right now is to not make loans, to wait until this blows over,'' Mr. Brown said. Even good credit risks, he said, are finding it difficult to obtain loans.
''As a regulator I have mixed feelings about all this,'' Mr. Brown said. While he wants to see the banks solvent, he does not want to see the economy choked, he said.
 
Reaction of Senators
But officials said an even larger problem looms, as Federal tax dollars begin to flow out of the state to help failed savings and loans throughout the Southwest.
''I'm outraged about what happened,'' Senator Lieberman said. ''The numbers of the transfer of money are so galling it leads me to take a look at the formulas involved.''
Mr. Lieberman said there has long been debate about the fact that Connecticut gets back less in Federal aid than its residents pay in taxes. Congressmen from other states point to the fact that Connecticut has long received a disproportionate share of defense spending. But that is because Connecticut workers are skilled, Mr. Lieberman said, ''not because we've had a lot of crooks stealing from our savings and loans.''
The Senator said he was so concerned about the problem that he submitted legislation that would enable the Secret Service to investigate bank fraud. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is so backlogged, with more than 1,000 cases involving fraud of $100,000 or more, that it would welcome the help, Mr. Lieberman said, and Secret Service officials have told him they could field 100 agents on the cases immediately and another 200 agents during the next 6 to 12 months.
''We have to do what we can to catch and punish those people who are responsible for this rip-off,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''And then we have to put a cap on it.''
His bill was incorporated last week into a bill to stiffen the investigation into savings and loans that was introduced by Senator Joseph M. Biden, Democrat of Maryland, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. That should improve its chances of success, Mr. Lieberman said.
Mr. Dodd, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, said he would push for a full investigation of the savings and loan industry and its regulators.
He also said that his ''strong temptation would be to craft some funding scheme to allow states that are paying so much of this money for the savings and loan bailout to get favored treatment for things they need, such as housing and transportation for Connecticut.''
But, he added, ''whether or not you can equitably do something like that is another matter.''
Dr. Mandell said that while the cost to Connecticut taxpayers sounds high, it will not have as great an impact as people expect, because the bailout will take place over a long period of time.
''It'll probably be paid our over 10 years, which amounts to another $100 per person per year,'' Dr. Mandell said. ''That's just a rough number, but that's the magnitude of what we're talking about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FINANCES; FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 



45 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
The Latest Political Litmus Test

BYLINE: By JOESPH STANISLAW and DANIEL YERGIN; Joseph Stanislaw is managing director, and Daniel Yergin president, of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Mr. Yergin is author of ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power.''

 BODY:
President Bush's decision last week to limit offshore drilling demonstrates that hardly any politician can risk being seen as anti-environmental. The reason for this is the growth of the environmental consciousness among the American people.
Americans believe in economic growth. But a significant majority think that we can have economic growth and a cleaner environment. This is what we found in a new survey of 1,250 people we undertook with the Opinion Dynamics Corporation to assess how Americans think about the environment, energy and the economy. 
Seventy-four percent of the public we surveyed said that if they had to choose, they would select environmental cleanup and slower growth over economic growth. A large majority also says that it would reject political candidates who do not agree with the preference for environmental protection over economic growth - that is, if a choice has to be made. Environmentalism will increasingly be a litmus test for candidates.
Underlying these attitudes is a strong streak of pessimism. A majority of Americans believes the nation's environment has become worse over the last year, and almost half think it will be in worse shape ten years from now. Both business and government suffer from a credibility gap.
The public's response to the question of which environmental problems have most directly affected them indicates why clean air has been so compelling a cause. Half the respondents we interviewed said that they had been adversely affected by pollution - water, air, acid rain, and 29 percent said they had encountered respiratory or breathing problems.
While the environmental consensus has emerged as a potent political force in the last few years, its strength, we found, would be tested in an economic downturn. After all, the focus on such concerns tended to recede during the economic slump of the 1970's. The consensus could also be challenged by the public's worries about the adequacy of energy supplies, we found.
Although environmental anxieties currently outweigh economic concerns, 72 percent of the public thinks it is likely the United States will face problems getting an adequate supply of oil in the next 10 years. Most favor incentives to encourage domestic oil production and support offshore oil drilling to keep oil imports down. On the other hand, 81 percent think their local electricity supplies will be adequate in the next few years.
Yet that is the energy shortage that could well develop the soonest, particularly in the Northeast. If so, that will mean the United States must confront some of the trade-offs and choices the over-supplied energy markets of the 1980's allowed us to avoid. It does not, however, mean that the environmental consensus will be overturned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); ACID RAIN (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: STANISLAW, JOSEPH; YERGIN, DANIEL GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



46 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: New Weapon Against Harbor Oil Spills

BYLINE: By LEO H. CARNEY

 BODY:
THE Coast Guard is preparing to install a system of radar and television cameras in New York Harbor that will alert ships' pilots to traffic conditions and emergencies, in an effort to prevent some of the oil spill accidents that have plagued the harbor area and, most recently, the Jersey Shore.
Capt. Robert C. North, the Coast Guard's captain of port for New York and New Jersey, said the system, the Vessel Traffic Service, would be set up in three phases, the first of which will be in operation by Dec. 1 along Newark Bay, and between the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and the Brooklyn Bridge. The entire service area, from Sandy Hook to the Hudson and East Rivers, will be covered by December 1992, he said.
Emphasizing that the system is not as sophisticated or demanding as air traffic control for aircraft, Captain North said that the new system nevertheless ''will give us a closer look at what is moving in port.''
''We will be capable of telling a tanker what is around the corner, for instance, or what unanticipated dangers to avoid,'' he said. 
The system, which was approved by Congress last year in an amendment to the Coast Guard Reauthorization Act that was proposed by Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of Long Branch, will be monitored by an operations center at Governors Island, N.Y.
 
Required to Check In
Vessels of 100 gross tons or more - this excludes most pleasure craft and small passenger ferries - will be required to check in with a Vessel Traffic Service operator as they approach the harbor, said Lieut. Comdr. James E. Bussey 3d, an officer in charge of Vessel Traffic Service operations.
Ships' masters or pilots can be warned or advised of traffic conditions by the Coast Guard or receive whatever traffic or navigational information they themselves request, he said.
The total cost for the system will be $17.6 million, with about $5 million going to cover the cost of the first phase, Coast Guard officials said.
Mr. Pallone said in a recent interview at his office in Long Branch that a similar system had been operating in New York Harbor until it was discontinued two years ago because of Coast Guard budget cutbacks. Unlike the new service, it was voluntary for pilots. But, Mr. Pallone said, a report by the Government Accounting Office last year warned that some ports like New York were ''in jeopardy'' for lack of a vessel traffic service.
Work on the service has already begun, Commander Bussey said. Electronics equipment had been purchased last month, he said, and next month a five-month training program will begin for the 33 Coast Guard members who will operate it.
Preparation for the system began as numerous regulatory agencies, legislative committees and task forces undertook major inquiries into the recent spate of oil spill accidents in New York Harbor.
Judith A. Yaskin, Commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Protection and the co-chairman of the New York-New Jersey Harbor Oil Spill Prevention Task Force, told the Coast Guard Board of Inquiry on Governors Island last month that the petroleum industry had failed to adequately take control of vessel and pipeline transfers in the harbor. Last year these operations involved 1,700 vessels and 18 million gallons of refined and crude oil.
 
Beaches Forced to Close
The latest major spill, on June 7, was of 260,000 gallons that leaked from the BT Nautilus, a large British tanker. The vessel ran aground in the Kill Van Kull. Its cargo partly congealed in the water and formed tar balls that, days later, polluted New Jersey beaches from Sandy Hook to Long Beach Island, forcing some bathing beaches to close.
Commissioner Yaskin said in an interview that oil spills had increased precipitously since 1986 in the harbor. More than a million gallons, she said, found their way into the harbor since January alone, starting with 567,000 gallons on Jan. 1 and 2 from a ruptured Exxon pipeline between New Jersey and Staten Island.
Although it was difficult finding anyone in government or the petroleum industry who did not enthusiastically favor the Vessel Traffic System, Mr. Pallone, Captain North and others agreed that it was not a panacea for averting oil spills.
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Coast Guard, since 1976 there have been at least 63 major oil spills in New York Harbor, each involving 10,000 gallons or more.
Lieut. Brian Bubar, a Coast Guard spokesman, said that the 63 accidents spilled 5.9 million gallons of oil into the harbor, a figure that does not reflect what officials generally admit could be dozens or hundreds of smaller spills or discharges from loading docks, bilge pumps and other sources.
The fact that spills from vessels accounted for 24 of the 63 spills has led Mr. Pallone and others to look for additional solutions at both Federal and state levels - all with considerable opposition for the petroleum industry.
Mr. Pallone said, for example, that discrepancies between the House and Senate versions of the Spill Liability Act of 1989 had delayed for many months the passage of that measure and, therefore, the imposing of more stringent regulations on oil transporters by the Federal Government.
 
Topics of Discrepancies
These discrepancies, he said, included a requirement that tankers have double hulls and mandatory drug testing for all licensed ships' officers, as well as the issue of liability for spills.
The bill, Mr. Pallone said, has become ''bogged down'' in a joint House and Senate conference committee.
Among other things, Mr. Pallone recently told the House Coast Guard Subcommittee, of which he is a member, that Congress needed to bolster harbor safety by requiring spill response equipment in New York Harbor, not in North Carolina as the proposed Spill Liability Act now reads, and by improving the ability of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Seattle to project accurately where a spill can be expected to spread, based on the weight of the oil and conditions of weather and tide.
Mr. Pallone said in the interview that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration trajectory for the June 7 oil spill had predicted that the oil would not wash ashore, when in fact it did, and that the reason for this was a staffing deficiency in the Seattle headquarters of the agency.
 
Fines of Up to $10 Million
In Trenton, the Assembly voted favorably last month on a package of anti-spill measures that includes fines of up to $10 million for major spills, a type of penalty that has upset the petroleum industry. One of the causes of the industry's concern, according to spokesmen, was the issue of pre-empting or prohibiting individual states from imposing their own restrictions in addition to Federal ones.
Bill Taylor, a spokesman for the Washington-based American Petroleum Institute, said in an interview that regulatory ''inconsistencies from state to state'' made it ''very difficult to operate an industry spill response network on a regional basis.''
''It makes it very expensive to operate,'' he said, ''and imposes severe liabilities, which can become greater than a company's ability to generate revenues. So, a company is forced to choose, say, between doing business in Virginia and maybe not doing business in Maryland.''
Noting that the Royal Dutch Shell Company this year had cut back United States delivery to all ports except one in Louisiana because of severe pollution liability regulations, Mr. Taylor said that the threat of economic abandonment of an individual port by petroleum companies was ''a viable option that is always available.''
 
Threats Called 'Not Viable'
Commissioner Yaskin said that economic threats like these had not been made during recent talks with industry officials in New Jersey and New York. She added that in light of the vast amount of oil handled in New York Harbor, ''the reality is that such threats are not viable in this market because of the industry's self-interest.''
''The cost benefit ratio that I am most concerned with,'' Mrs. Yaskin asserted, ''is New Jersey's $7.5 billion tourist industry - billions of dollars in boats and marinas, the fishing industry and shore property - in the effect of the oil spills on benthic animals and the health of our estuaries.''
She said the thing she had feared most since the Exxon spill in January, when she took office, ''was the potential for a spill polluting our coast.'' She added, ''It has happened this time.''
Meanwhile, Commander Bussey of the Coast Guard said that the new Vessel Traffic Service, because it is now mandatory, would include many more vessels.
Several mandatory and voluntary systems have been in place in several ports since the 1970's, he said, including Galveston and Prince William Sound in Alaska. But, he said, the efficacy of these systems will not have been evaluated until the release later this summer of the Coast Guard's port-needs study.
''It sometimes can be hard,'' Commander Bussey said, ''to measure when a warning you gave a vessel prevented a serious accident.''

GRAPHIC: Photos; Containment booms around the BT Nautilus, left, which spilled 260,000 gallons of oil after running aground off Bayonne on June 7 (pg. 1); Oil being cleaned from the Bayonne shore as crews maintained a boom in an attempt to contain oil spilled last month after grounding of the British tanker BT Nautilus (pg. ) (Keth Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICE (66%); FRANK PALLONE JR (78%); ROBERT C NORTH (58%); COAST GUARD (94%); NEW YORK (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%); The New York Times, July 1, 1990#016T930111SENTA02# #016T910830SENTA01# #SUBX991113XPX16XNI# #ENTX000321XPX25XNI# #SUBX010127XPX19XNI# #ENTX010127XPX36XNI# VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICE (66%); COAST GUARD (94%); COAST GUARDWATER POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; RADAR; TELEVISION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; PORTS ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); POLLUTION (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); FERRIES (73%); LEGISLATORS (71%); FRANK PALLONE JR (78%); ROBERT C NORTH (58%); NYT1990#0013900701

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; RADAR; TELEVISION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; PORTS OIL SPILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MARINE TANKERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); FERRIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (71%); BUDGETS (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); APPROVALS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK PALLONE JR (69%); BARNEY FRANK (50%); 



47 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: In North Carolina, the New South Rubs Uneasily With the Old Ways

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STOVALL, N.C.

 BODY:
Forty-five minutes down Interstate 85, researchers are pushing at the boundaries of medical science at the Duke University Medical Center, but there has recently been an epochal breakthrough here: nearly all the residents who had been using old pine outhouses have been able to replace them with indoor bathrooms.
For North Carolina, this is a familiar paradox. Often viewed both within and outside the region as the most progressive state in the South, North Carolina now symbolizes more than any other state the contradictions of a region increasingly split between metropolitan areas that prospered in the Sun Belt boom of the last two decades and rural areas left behind.
Long known for excellent universities like Duke and the Univerity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, its high school students ranked last nationally in Scholastic Aptitude Test scores in 1989.
Home to the high-technology complex at the Research Triangle between Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill, the state also has the highest infant mortality rate. 
 
Integration and the Klan
Perhaps the most successful Southern state in integrating peacefully in the civil rights era, North Carolina now has both a black man, former Mayor Harvey Gantt of Charlotte, running for the Senate and one of the nation's highest reported levels of hate crimes and Ku Klux Klan activity.
And the race between Mr. Gantt, a symbol of the increasingly diverse and urban character of the region, and Senator Jesse Helms, a contentious conservative who as much as anyone symbolizes the South's rural traditions, is providing perhaps the ultimate juxtaposition of the South's conflicting currents.
''North Carolina mirrors its landscape,'' said Fred Chappell, a novelist and poet who teaches at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. ''It stretches from the highest mountains east of the Rockies to the ocean, and somehow we embrace those contradictions. What's changed is the emphasis. In the past it was more social. Now, it's more brutally economic.''
The disparities are shocking, even to some North Carolinians, because of a statewide image shaped more by the Research Triangle and the allure of the Great Smoky Mountains and the Outer Banks than any vision of Deep South poverty.
The 10th most populous state, North Carolina had led the South in industrialization, and in many ways has been the region's most successful state. While states like Mississippi and Alabama were electing politicians dedicated to preserving segregation, North Carolina was electing governors like Luther Hodges and Terry Sanford, who became the model for New South moderates on race.
 
Jump in Per Capita Income
North Carolina's unemployment rate, 4 percent, is the lowest among the 11 largest states, and the state has jumped from 44th to 34th nationally in per capita income over the past several years. It has led the nation in adding manufacturing plants in each of the last three years and has averaged about 100,000 new jobs annually in recent years.
Most of the gains have come in booming areas like Charlotte, which is now considered the banking capital of the South, and the Research Triangle, which has one of the highest concentration of Ph.D.'s, scientists and engineers of any comparable geographical area in the United States.
But just beyond the economic orbit of cities like Durham, where old tobacco warehouses are being converted to trendy shops and boutiques, the glitter quickly disappears. This little town of 470 people, eight modest businesses and not a single stoplight, within commuting distance of Durham, has the feel of an isolated country hamlet where residents grow tobacco and the big concern of Mayor Janet C. Parrott is getting indoor plumbing.
 
Inadequate Sewer System
About three years ago Mayor Parrott managed to get a community development grant from the Federal Government to dig two wells and upgrade 36 houses, some with dirt floors, and about half without plumbing. Residents like Nettie Royster and Mary E. Lewis still have toilets in their backyards, and a few others like 84-year-old Hunter Taylor still do not have indoor plumbing.
But it turns out that the septic system is not adequate for the new plumbing, and the town often smells of human waste. ''People come out here from Raleigh, and they can't believe it's so different,'' said Mrs. Parrott. ''We haven't caught up with the times yet.''
Even so, the farther one gets from Raleigh and Durham, the better Stovall looks, as the fringes of the Research Triangle give way to the desperate poverty of Eastern North Carolina, which rivals the poorest areas in Mississippi and Alabama. A report in May by two groups working with the rural poor, the North Carolina Rural Communities Assistance Project and the North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center, says the percentage of people living without adequate indoor plumbing in Gates County, in the eastern part of the state, is the same as in Lima, Peru. $1 Billion for the Basics Similarly, the report, which was based on 1980 census data, said almost 250,000 North Carolina residents live without complete indoor plumbing, and more than $1 billion is needed to finance water and sewer projects in rural North Carolina alone.
Almost half the state's 6.5 million residents live in rural areas where, according to the North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center, poverty, unemployment and low educational levels are much more common than in the cities.
''North Carolina's situation is like where you can't see the forest for the trees,'' said Billy Ray Hall, president of the development center.''The trees, our colleges and universities, our natural resource base, our historical leadership give a positive image. But the more you look at the state, the more you see the underside.''
Most worrisome is that the poverty often co-exists with some of the state's successes. North Carolina led the South in attracting low-paying manufacturing jobs, changing it from a state of small farmers to one dominated by small manufacturing plants. The evolution has given the state both the nation's highest percentage of people employed in manufacturing and the lowest manufacturing wages.
 
Wages Below Poverty Line
According to a study by Donald Tomaskovic-Devey, a sociology professor at North Carolina State University, 30 percent of all jobs in the state, including 42 percent of the jobs held by women and 44 percent held by blacks, pay annual wages below the poverty level for a family of four, $12,675 in 1989. He found that one in six households where at least one person was working reported not having enough money at some point in the last year to buy the food the family needed.
''I see a lot of my kids' parents who are part of the working poor, both working full-time jobs and still poor,'' said David Diamont, a State Representative who is a high school history teacher in Surry County, in the northwestern part of the state. ''A 16-year-old in my fourth-period class sees the $6.10-an-hour wage at the textile mill job as a way to put money in his pocket right now, but 10 years from now he's still going to be in the low-wage job with no skills and no future.''
Some experts say the low-wage, high-pressure manufacturing jobs in fields like textiles or poultry processing affect health care statistics like the infant morality rate.
''In North Carolina we have one of the highest rates of working mothers in the nation,'' said Brenda McKinney, a physician's assistant with the public health department in Surry County. ''What these women are doing is working in industry in the mills where they have piecework, and they have to produce a certain amount of work a day or they're penalized, even if they leave to go to the doctor. I see it everyday: 35 percent of our prenatal appointments do not show up either because of transportation or because they couldn't get off work.''
 
Dealing With the Problem
The figures on infant morality and S.A.T. scores received substantial publicity around the state this year and were seen as a major embarrassment. The state has put together special groups to deal with both problems, and officials say hitting bottom may have been the jolt the state needed.
''When those numbers came out last year it shocked people,'' said Bob Etheridge, the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, adding that the scores would help speed education changes already under way. ''People in North Carolina are very proud people. This is a good state with a strong history in education and economic development, and I think we've seen people rally together in a way maybe we haven't seen since the 1960's.''
But some critics say the state's problems are not just anomalies that slipped by, but in some ways are reflections of the growth strategies of the state and the South. Paul Luebke, a sociology professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro who recently wrote ''Tar Heel Politics: Myths and Realities,'' published this year by the University of North Carolina Press. says the state's reputation for progressive government is overly generous. For instance, he said North Carolina had always followed a formula for growth emphasizing its elite universities over public schools, which brought with it built-in disparities.
 
Equity Priority Is Lacking
''There's a basic idea of equity as a priority of public policy that's lacking throughout the South,'' he said. ''The New South development strategy has always been based on a kind of trickle-down economics, and North Carolina is an outstanding example of that.''
Others say North Carolina made perhaps the only choices available earlier in the century, when it lured low-wage industry that helped modernize a poor state. But like the rest of the region, it is now finding that an ill-educated work force is no longer sufficient inducement when companies can open plants in Mexico or Thailand. That means that although the successful, education-intensive areas are likely to remain among the nation's growth centers, North Carolina faces new obstacles in bringing up its lagging areas.
''The low-wage, development strategy, which made Southern states overall competitive in luring jobs over the last two or three decades, just doesn't have a future,'' Mr. Tomaskovic-Devey said. ''North Carolina played that game first and maybe best, but the game is over.''

GRAPHIC: Photos:In North Carolina, where economic and cultural disparities abound, the house at left is just miles from Research Triangle, an area between Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill where many high-technology concerns, like the Burroughs Wellcome Company, right, are situated. (Photographs by Duane Hall for The New York Times); table of some of North Carolina's statistics (source: Almanac of the 50 States, Statistical Abstract 1990, Census Bureau) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (93%); DURHAM, NC, USA (88%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OUTER BANKS (52%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS TRENDS (90%); MOUNTAINS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICS (76%); CITIES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); RANKINGS (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (53%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER JESSE HELMS (54%); 



48 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
East-West Berlin, a Boomtown in the Making

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST BERLIN, July 1

 BODY:
On both sides of the crumbling remnants of the Berlin Wall, signs of an economic boom are everywhere, a direct result of the merger of the East and West German economies.
Seventy yards from the Brandenburg Gate, Yamaha has opened a showroom to sell sleek, polished motorcycles and electronic organs to the more prosperous East Germans of tomorrow.
On Kurfurstendamm, West Berlin's Fifth Avenue, there is construction galore, and developers are rushing to change their residential building permits to office permits to cash in on the unification boom.
The still-unfinished Dom Hotel in East Berlin is seeking to rent out luxury 1,000-square-foot offices to Western companies for $9,000 a month -more than 100 times the rents under Communism. Rents for prime office space in West Berlin have jumped 60 percent since the wall opened in November. 
Not only is a united Germany destined to become an industrial power, dominating Western Europe's economy even more than West Germany has, but Berlin seems well on its way to becoming the economic epicenter of Europe. Indeed, a reunited Berlin of four million people will, by itself, have an economy as large as the gross national product of Portugal.
''Everyone seems obsessed about what's going on in this city,'' said Jurgen Bischoff, head of the Berlin office of Jones Lang Wooten, an international real estate firm. ''We have Japanese companies coming in, and we have American developers looking around for the first time.''
 
The Mark's Growing Importance
To be sure, reunification is fraught with uncertainty, especially for East Germans who worry that neither their jobs nor their enterprises will survive in the harsh, yet promising capitalist era.
Still, a united Germany will clearly be the foremost economic power in both Western Europe and Eastern Europe. With Germany's larger stature, the importance of the mark in the world's currency markets will grow.
Unification will also make Germany's industrial giants even stronger in the long term, although for a few years non-German companies may find it easier to compete with the Germans because German industry will be preoccupied with expanding into the East.
East Germany's economic output is estimated to be around 10 percent of West Germany's, and the united Germany will have a gross national product of more than a trillion dollars a year. Fusing the two Germanys will produce an economy that is more than 25 percent larger than France's or Britain's. With East Germany's economic output expected to double in the next 7 to 10 years, Germany's lead will grow even larger.
''After the transition period, the German economy will be bigger and stronger,'' said Meinhard Miegel, director of the Institute for Economics and Social Policy in Bonn. ''The German economy will have greater volume, greater selling power, greater exporting power.''
 
East Europe a German Market
West Germany also stands to gain the most economically from the opening up of Eastern Europe. The Federal Republic already accounts for two-fifths of the West's trade with Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland and Bulgaria - and that is before East Germany's booming trade with those countries is included.
''Germany will be the major economic power in Eastern Europe,'' Mr. Miegel said. ''Eastern Europe will be primarily a German market.''
The German mark is already the anchor currency in the nine-nation European Monetary System, and Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands have pegged their currencies to the mark. The mark has become the leading hard currency in Hungary and Czechoslovakia. What is more, East Germany's trade links with the Soviet Union and West Germany's pledge of aid to Moscow will help establish the mark as the most important Western currency in the Soviet Union.
Some economists say that as a result of the European Community's push to adopt a single currency, the mark could someday become the currency of the community's 320 million people. ''If you accept that Europe will be a much more integrated market in a decade's time, whichever currency becomes its official currency will be a very big rival to the dollar,'' said Richard Reid, chief European economist for UBS Phillips & Drew in London.
 
Germans Disclaim Power
Many Germans grow quickly defensive with all the talk about German economic might. They say that a united Germany will be powerful, but just one among many countries in Europe, and that it will be Europe, not Germany, that is the superpower. A united Germany will have 78 million people, and they say it cannot possibly dwarf France, Britain or Italy, each of which has more than 55 million people.
''Eighty million people are not enough to be a superpower,'' said Norbert Walter, chief economist at Deutsche Bank.
Nonetheless, lingering fears that a unified Germany will be too dominant are causing many Europeans to call for accelerating the process of European integration in order to submerge Germany more deeply into Europe and to create a European Germany, rather than a German Europe. Integration, they contend, would make Germany more like California, the first, most populous and most economically powerful among equals, but still an equal.
Unification certainly raises fears among some non-German companies, which are worried that German corporate giants will quickly expand to become overpowering competitors. Still, many Germans point out that other nations should generally benefit from German industrial strength.
Indeed, other Western countries put pressure on West Germany for years to speed up its sluggish economy to help pull Europe - and the world - along. So now, reunification promises to turn West Germany into a fast-moving locomotive for Europe's economy in the early 1990's, growing at a brisk rate of 4 percent a year, many economists predict. There are also fears that this higher growth will lead to higher inflation.
 
Plenty of Business Seen for All
''Reunification will add a full percentage point to West Germany's annual economic growth,'' said Manfred Melzer, an economist with the German Institute for Economics in West Berlin. The Germans also predict that reunification will produce a second German economic miracle in East Germany, which will import $25 billion more in goods a year than it would have without reunification. All the cars, computers and cameras the East Germans import will come from many countries, not just West Germany.
Moreover, analysts say that since German industry is already operating near full capacity, unification will leave plenty of business to go around for French, British and American industry.
''Since the West Germans are already close to full resource utilization, they will have to import a lot of resources to help East Germany,'' said Paul Horne, European economist for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. ''That will help France, the U.K. and other Western countries increase their exports.''
Accordingly, the next few years could provide non-German businesses with a window of opportunity to compete against the Germans - and to expand in Germany and Europe. But once the decade-long process of rebuilding East Germany is complete, the companies of a united Germany could well emerge as more potent, more competitive forces.
 
Fears for the Long Term
''In the short-term the Germans will be very busy taking care of East Germany,'' said Carlo de Benedetti, chairman of Ing. C. Olivetti & Company S.p.A., the Italian office machine and computer concern. ''What we should remember is that ultimately we will have to compete with competitors that are bigger.''
Indeed, West Germany's muscular corporate heavyweights are already trying to use unification as a vehicle to grow even bigger and stronger. Deutsche Bank A.G., West Germany's largest bank, hopes to open 250 branches in East Germany and capture 20 percent of consumer deposits within the next three years. The Frankfurt-based bank is investing more than $500 million to expand in East Germany and as a result could quickly increase its assets by more than $10 billion.
''It's an additional market of 16 million people,'' said Georg Krupp, director of Deutsche Bank's East German operations. ''In the long term that's very important.''
Volkswagen A.G., which boasts that it is No. 1 in auto sales in Europe, plans to increase production 10 percent by investing $2.9 billion in a 250,000-car-a-year assembly plant in East Germany. Mannesmann, a company based in Dusseldorf, that is Europe's largest machinery-making group, has signed letters of intent with 30 East German companies to establish different types of cooperation.
''We have a broad range of activities, and in virtually every sector there is a partner for us in the G.D.R.,'' said Friedrich Schunder, a Mannesmann spokesman.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the economic strength of a unified Germany misidentified an international real estate advisory firm. It is Jones Lang Wootton.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the projections of the size of a combined German economy. (source: Institute of Germany Economy) (The New York Times) (pg. A1); graph of the estimated economic output for each country in 1989 in U.S. dollars (sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Lloyds Bank. (The New York Times) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (98%); 

COMPANY: YAMAHA CORP (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; BERLIN (GERMANY); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; CURRENCY MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); CURRENCIES (61%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ROBERT JONES (54%); 



49 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9

 
East Germans got a new currency, as thousands began lining up to obtain their West Germany money and the country turned into the home stretch toward reunification. Page A1

 
For East Germans, wonder and some trepidation A6

 
A unification boom is occuring on both sides of the crumbling Berlin Wall. With new stores, office buildings, and hotels sprouting up everywhere, Berlin seems well on its way to becoming the economic epicenter of Europe. A1

 
The Soviet Communist Party, an institution divided and demoralized, convenes today for its 28th congress. The main issue will be not so much where the party leads the country but whether it leads at all. A1 
 
 
Soviet effort for patent law reform gains momentum D8

 
The Prime Minister of Poland decisively lost a test of strength with Lech Walesa this weekend, raising questions about whether his Cabinet could survive without changes. A8

 
Bush urges conciliatory gestures for NATO A8

 
China began a huge census effort, sending millions of census workers to houses and shacks throughout the na-tion to count the largest population in the world. A3

 
Philippine Communists hold peace corps man, U.S. says
 A9

 
A fierce confrontaion in Liberia occurred between rebel and Government forces on the northern outskirts of Monrovia, the nation's capital. The fighting created panic in several heavily populated residential areas. A2

 
An Israeli construction program to help settle the thousands of newly arrived Soviet immigrants was approved by the Government. The program grants sweeping emergency powers to Housing Minister Ariel Sharon. A3

 
An Iranian aide discounts U.S.
 A2

 
Higuey journal: Voyage to a better life, or a watery death
 A4

 
National A10-13

 
Gasoline prices have not dropped even while crude oil prices are 20 percent lower than they were last year. The main reason is a bottleneck at the nation's refineries. A1

 
A top Air Force general knew that the Stealth fighter plane had missed its targets in its first combat mission, but he did not tell his superiors at the Pentagon, a classified report says.
 A13

 
Quick transfers in arms programs criticized A13

 
Most households have been counted, the Census Bureau reported, but several areas, in particular New York State and City, still lag far behind.
 A10

 
Reporter's notebook: Effi Barry has attended the trial of her husband, Marion Barry, but she has not spoken publicly about about her feelings concerning the evidence against Mr. Barry. A11

 
Critic's notebook: Behind the images in the Barry case C14

 
New Orleans' chance to be the site of the 1992 Democratic National Convention has been seriously undermined by the anti-abortion legislation approved by the Louisiana Legislature last week, top party officials say. A12

 
Political memo: Political pledges made during Presidential campaigns have been broken numerous times in history. In fact, a poll indicates that many Americans expected President Bush to reverse himself on the tax issue. A12

 
North Carolina is a state divided along many lines, embodying a lot of the South's conflicting currents. Prosperous, cosmopolitan centers are short distances from stagnant rural hamlets. A1

 
Poor weather has beset farmers around the country in 1990. Two measures of the weather's effects are decreases in the amounts of planted acreage and corn production. A10

 
Detroit journal: one man's treasure, another's junk
 A10

 
Theory counters idea of weak-armed Tyrannosaur
 A13

 
Bishop threatens another on abortion A11

 
Regional B1-6

 
Decisions over a patient's health, including choices that could end life, could be made by a surrogate designated by the patient under legislation passed by New York State lawmakers. A1

 
New York construction is slowing after a boom decade. Despite the rise of many towers on the West Side of Manhattan, hard-hat workers are worrying about where or even when they will be working next. B1

 
A $28 billion city budget was adopted by the City Council. The budget, which called for $800 million in higher taxes, is the first one enacted by the Council with its expanded powers under the new City Charter. B1

 
The renewals of the cable franchises for Manhattan, which the Board of Estimate approved last week, were plagued by many problems during their negotiations, including the issue of providing state-of-the-art services.
 B1
 
The reading and mathematics scores for New York City Public schools in spring 1990 show a sharp decline in reading scores among ninth and 10th graders, but otherwise are virtually unchanged from last year. B3

 
Plans to fight traffic problems on Long Island include not only road improvement efforts, but also a campaign to persuade people to drive less. B1

 
Water main break halts subways on West Side lines B4

 
A Soviet widow copes with her husband's death in New York
 B2

 
Reporter's notebook: Keeping calm at jogger trial B3

 
On Bronx street, a celebration for a firehouse B3

 
Cuomo demurs on presidency; meets disbelief B4

 
Anti-tax protesters demand Florio's recall, for starters B4

 
Business Digest D1

 
SportsMonday

 
The Yankees found a new low to their crazy summer as Andy Hawkins pitched a no-hitter but lost to the Chicago White Sox, 4-0, when the Yankees committed three errors in the eighth inning. A1

 
Baseball: Steinbrenner-Winfield relationship is focus of inquiry
 C1

 
Pirates top Giants, 8-5 C2

 
Involvement pays for Harrelson C3

 
Confidence brought by Merrill C3
 
Hawkins has made most of second chance C4

 
Mets edge Reds, 3-2 C4

 
An inspired Franco C4

 
Boats: Australian prevails in Liberty Cup C7

 
College: N.C.A.A. moves toward limiting sports burdens C7

 
Column: Anderson on Trevino-Nicklaus rivalry C6
 
Features: Sports World Specials
 C2

 
Question Box C7

 
Golf: Trevino takes Senior Open C1

 
Tough day for Player C6

 
Horse Racing: Storm disrupts Belmont card C7

 
Outdoors: No sleep but lots of bass C9

 
Soccer: England beats Cameroon C1

 
West Germany tops Czechoslovakia C6

 
Tennis: Becker and Cash to clash C7

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
New home for Courtauld's art C11

 
Selling ''Grapes of Wrath'' C11

 
Music: Mozart at Tanglewood C12

 
Stan Getz in the spotlight C13

 
An all-star quartet C13

 
Benny Green's be-bop C13

 
Nancy Wilson's cool style C13

 
Ella Fitzgerald performs C13

 
Haynes and Murray C13

 
Dance: Ib Andersen in ''Apollo'' C11

 
Word and Image: A press agent's tales C14

 
Special on Preston Sturges C14

 
Obituaries D10

 
Marquis W. Childs, Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A14

 
Genuinely affirmative action
 
Big aims on Cambodia
 
Grand Army Plaza, redressed
 
Plant trees. Then protect them.
 
Letters A14

 
Tom Wicker: New taxes for what? A15

 
Roman Szporluk: Gorbachev's last chance - democracy A15

 
Laurence H. Tribe: The abortion fight - a nation held hostage A15

 
Charles W. Colson: The abortion fight - Catholics vs. the media A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LIBERIA (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); PEACE CORPS (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CENSUS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); PATENTS (54%); PATENT LAW (54%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (54%); 



50 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Higuey Journal;
Brief Voyage to a Better Life, or a Watery Death

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HIGUEY, Dominican Republic

 BODY:
For Jose Castillo and his small band of friends, a shimmering life of comfort and fast money lies just across the narrow, perilous strait that separates this country from Puerto Rico.
Undaunted by the regular newspaper accounts of the deaths of hundreds of would-be emigrants whose bodies have washed up on beaches or simply disappeared at sea - not to mention their own failed attempts to reach Puerto Rico - they still prepare for the day when they can afford yet another moonlit trip in a small, badly overloaded boat.
''My family tells me I am crazy,'' said Mr. Castillo, a stocky, fast-talking 28-year-old truck driver. ''But life is easier in Puerto Rico. Those who return say there are plenty of dollars over there.'' 
 
Rapidly Growing Wave
Mr. Castillo wishes to join the rapidly growing wave of clandestine emigrants from this country of seven million, many of them people willing to risk their savings and their lives to make their way to Puerto Rico, often continuing from there by plane to the mainland United States.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service does not release estimates of the numbers of illegal immigrants from particular countries living in the United States, but officials of the agency say 5,341 people of Dominican nationality were arrested in this country in 1989, far more than from any other Caribbean country.
That is more than double the number of Dominican repatriations in 1987, and is more than 10 times the number of Haitians returned to their country from the United States by the immigration service.
While the thousands of poor, sun-lashed Haitian boat people stumbling onto south Florida's beaches in the early 1980's drew national attention, this wave of Dominican illegal immigrants has gone largely unremarked.
Those who make it to Puerto Rico, avoiding disaster at sea or arrest on arrival, often establish themselves without difficulty on that island or make their way by plane to the mainland United States with little risk of detection, Dominicans and United States immigration officials say.
 
No Routine Customs Check
Because Puerto Rico is a United States commonwealth, immigration officials say, they are not allowed to make the routine customs checks that would ferret illegal aliens out from the planeloads of passengers between the island and the mainland.
Instead, the immigration service polices the Puerto Rican coast, where its agents arrest many Dominicans, like Mr. Castillo, for repatriation. Most are jailed by the Dominican authorities for leaving the country illegally until they can pay a $68 fine.
For many, that penalty seems small compared with the pain of a 60 percent inflation rate, high unemplyment and low wages.
Mr. Castillo and a friend who had been in a grocery-cafe in this small, somnolent town recounted three failed attempts to move to Puerto Rico. The truck driver indicated all the while how little the fines and dangers affected his determination to go.
''I had to try for something better,'' Mr. Castillo said. ''Life here is too difficult. On my last trip, in January, I went with $10 in my pocket. There were 54 of us on the boat. Many of the others came with nothing.
''I'll go as soon as I get enough money for the boat,'' he added, referring to the cost of the passage - $275 and up, depending on the quality of the boat, with no guarantees of arrival. ''I won't wait to save up any pocket money.''
 
Three-Month Wait for a Boat
Several people who had tried the trip said the waiting list for a spot on a boat, most of which are operated by professional traffickers, can be as long as three months. When the chance comes, few turn it down.
Mr. Castillo's friend, Jesus Santana, whose mother made her way to Puerto Rico in by boat in 1980, seemed no less determined.
''We had lots of problems last time,'' said Mr. Santana, a 28-year-old driver employed by a motorbike taxi service whose $10 daily earnings are divided with the owner. ''We lost all of our money. We were arrested on the beach in Puerto Rico. And we spent a week in jail here before my family could pay the fine.''
''I think about the danger of the yolas, how they are overloaded and take on water,'' he said, referring to the wooden boats, while he leaned on his motorbike in the shade.''But I think of a better life too.
''Nobody likes to talk about it,'' he said, ''but if they had the money, everyone here would try to go - at least all of the young people.''
If many people are reticent talking about the sea journey to Puerto Rico, even as they contemplate the trip for themselves, perhaps it is because of the high toll in human lives.
At Boca de Yuma, a fishing village of a few empty dirt streets that sits on the azure southeastern coast, comment on the traffic to Puerto Rico is sparse. The lure to go is made stronger at Boca de Yuma and other places in the east by the clear reception of Puerto Rico's numerous radio and television stations, which serve up tempting images of material abundance and cosmopolitan sophistication that many find hard to resist.
Earlier this year, a boatload of voyagers, including several from Boca de Yuma, disappeared at sea. No one knows what happened, or how many died, but a half a dozen bodies floated back onto a beach here near where the boat was launched.
Juan Julio Santana, 30, a fisherman, repainted his boat in bright reds and greens as he talked about the voyagers. ''We have an idea why people go,'' he said. ''There is nothing but misery in this place. No work, no opportunity, not even electricty.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Castillo, center, and his friends still dream of emigrating from the town of Higuey in the Dominican Republic to Puerto Rico, despite the perils of the clandestine boat voyage and the failure of their last attempt. (Howard W. French/The New York Times); map of Dominican Republic showing location of Higuey (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); HAITI (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); BEACHES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); ARRESTS (86%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TRENDS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); INFLATION (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W JOSE CASTILLO (90%); 



51 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Construction Fades as Boom Loses Its Vigor

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
So many new towers are rising on the West Side of Manhattan that it is hard to believe the boom is over. But the construction workers who form lunchtime knots on the sidewalks and gather beneath the scaffolding know better.
''I'm thinking about going into a new career,'' said John Colwell, a carpenter from Long Island who is working in a 26-story office building on West 47th Street.
Such uncertainty would normally be unheard of this time of year, which is supposed to be the busy season for New York City's construction industry. But after a decade in which they filled in the skyline, adding nearly 50 million square feet of office space - enough room for nearly 200,000 office workers - and 106,000 units of housing, some of the hard-hat workers at the building sites that pock the West Side are worrying about where or even when they will be working next. 
 
Hit Late by Economic Slowdown
According to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, construction employment in New York City declined from 124,000 in September 1989 to 117,000 in April 1990, with about half of the drop due to seasonal variation and about half to the downturn in construction. And experts expect the falloff to continue over the next few years.
The economic slowdown that radiated from Wall Street was late to hit the construction industry, which has had to import workers from out of the region to help with the $18 billion in new construction that went up in the city in the 1980's.
About a dozen office buildings were completed in 1987 and 1988, many spurred by zoning incentives on the West Side, and eight more, with a total of nearly five million square feet of space, are expected to be finished this year.
But only a total of three buildings are scheduled to be completed next year and the year after. And with office vacancy rates in Manhattan at 15 percent, the highest level in years, and lending institutions tightening credit requirements, the pipeline might stay dry for a while. ''There's some talk of one or two projects,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. ''But I think it's unlikely anything is going to start in the next 6 to 18 months.''
Matthew P. Drennan, a professor at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, who tracks the New York region's economy, projects a 5,000-job decline in 1991 and an additional 4,000-job drop the next year. Given all the out-of-state license plates he said he has seen at city building sites, Professor Drennan wonders about the impact of the decline in new construction on local workers, although he says those who rely on rebuilding may be hit harder.
 
'Sitting on Their Hands'
Inside the building trades, the view seems downbeat. Raymond O'Kane, assistant to the president of the New York City Council of Carpenters, estimated that a quarter of the 30,000 carpenters were already ''sitting on their hands, waiting to go to work.''
''If they end up doing what they did in the 70's,'' he said, ''they'll drive cabs, be bartenders or get some business cards printed and finish basements.''
In feast or famine, the building trades have occupied a special niche not just in the city's economy but also in its culture and its politics. Just watch the officeholders and would-be officeholders jockey for position at a Labor Day parade.
In the last decade, construction has grown faster than any other segment of the city's economy except business services. Since 1978, according to the Real Estate Board, construction activity has generated $772 million in city payroll and sales taxes. But the drop in construction jobs now comes even before the industry has fully recovered from the dismal slump it had in the 1970's. After hitting a peak of 139,000 jobs in 1962, construction employment dropped to a low of 64,000 in 1977.
 
'A Roller-Coaster Industry'
''It's a roller-coaster industry,'' said Samuel I. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. ''And as they're finishing things, they see there's no tomorrow.''
Peter J. Brennan, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of New York City and New York State, said the downturn would hurt workers in some specialties more than others. Electricians, plumbers and painters can always repair or renovate existing buildings - called ''dirty'' jobs, as opposed to new or clean construction - and there will be opportunities for carpenters too, although not as many as now.
In contrast, he said, those who mainly build new office or apartment towers - ironworkers, concrete workers, sheet-metal workers, machinists, operating engineers and steamfitters - could find jobs scarce, at least for a while. Many of the unions representing those trades, Mr. Brennan notes, have large apprentice programs, so people trying to enter the industry will be hurt, too. ''You can't bring young people in and train them for no jobs,'' he said.
There are now about 16,000 apprentices in the various unions, about 7 percent of whom are women and 40 percent of whom are members of minority groups, Mr. Brennan said. He and others speak proudly of those programs and the efforts the unions have made in opening up the industry.
But last year Thomas R. Bailey, a research scholar at the Conservation of Human Resources Project at Columbia University, concluded that during the 1980's the number of black construction workers actually fell. Paradoxically, he found that there was more progress in the hard times of the 1970's, perhaps because the issue of racial discrimination in the industry was more of a public concern then.
For those who made the transition, a construction job has been a ticket to the middle class. Mr. Ehrenhalt said the average earnings of those in the construction industry nearly doubled between 1980 and 1988, to about $35,000 a year.
 
Some Commuters
Some New York City construction workers live in the suburbs and commute to the city, although Mr. Colwell, a carpenter for 18 years, said that lately he has seen fewer of them on his trains. At building sites along and around Broadway, he and others speak of business cycles and ripple effects as they try to assess what the economy holds in store for them.
''Once we get slow, everybody else gets slow,'' Mr. Colwell said. ''Housing starts drop, and that means people are no longer spending money. And then the auto industry is hurt.''
Ray Dean, a steamfitter working on the new Embassy Suites hotel at Seventh Avenue and 47th Street, said he was disappointed with what he clearly regarded as an anti-development attitude at City Hall - a view commonly heard at construction sites and union halls. He singles out Mayor David N. Dinkins's opposition to the construction of a garbage incinerator, a project that would have employed a lot of steamfitters.
''I don't know how bad it's going to get,'' Mr. Dean said. ''This company might send me to another job, or I might get laid off.''
Union leaders hope that Donald J. Trump will somehow put his empire back together and build his city on the Hudson and that the Columbus Center project will overcome legal challenges. But they are mostly counting on public, not private, work to sustain their members in lean times.
 
City Housing Program
There is the city's $5.2 billion housing program, although much of that, the union leaders say, is going to nonunion workers. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has scaled back its rebuilding plans for Kennedy International Airport, and it is far from certain how much money the Metropolitan Transportation Authority will have to continue its efforts to restore commuter lines and the subways.
But bilions of dollars will be spent rebuilding the highways, bridges and sewer lines, and the city's School Construction Authority will spend $4.3 billion to build 50 new schools and 30 annexes and remodel 70 others, all in five years.
And in April, New York State finally acquired most of the land for the 42d Street redevelopment project, first envisioned a decade ago. The four skyscrapers will range in height from 32 to 57 stories, comprise 4.1 million square feet of space and require about 16,000 construction workers to build.
But if those four buildings are the future, the present lies a few blocks away, at the Avenue of the Americas between 45th and 46th Streets. There, still only partially sheathed in pale rose granite, stands Americas Tower, a 48-story monument to uncertainty. Work stopped in December, with the tower 75 percent finished, when the developers failed to obtain a construction loan and began battling for control of the project.
''If the market had been better,'' said Mr. Spinola of the Real Estate Board, ''they wouldn't have had the argument.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CONSTRUCTION (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); STATISTICS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD DAVID DAVIS (70%); 



52 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Reading Test Scores Decline For 9th and 10th Graders

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The spring 1990 reading and mathematics achievement test scores for the New York City public schools show a sharp decline in reading scores among ninth and 10th graders, but otherwise are virtually unchanged from last year.
''Over all, this is boring news,'' said Robin Wilner, the board's executive director for the Division of Strategic Planning, Research and Development. ''Basically, the scores are flat. We are seeing no significant year-to-year change.'' 
The systemwide test scores, being released today, are the first since Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez took office in January. He said that while he was pleased that scores hovered around the national median - which means that half of students are at grade level and half are not - that the system needs to do better.
In reading, 48.1 percent of the 436,654 students tested in grades three through 10 scored at or above grade level. Last year, 49.2 percent did. Most grades showed only small performance changes. But among ninth and 10th graders there were drops of 6.2 and 5.1 percentage points respectively. Ms. Wilner said school officials did not yet know what these scores mean, but would be investigating.
 
Tougher Reading Standards
This was the second year that a new and tougher set of reading standards was used. The older standards, developed in the 1981-82 school year, had resulted in highly inflated scores for city students over the last few years.
In mathematics, 56.3 percent of 418,385 students tested in grades two through eight scored at or above their grade levels, compared with 56.2 percent last year. The largest increase was 6.1 percentage points for students in grade two and the largest decrease was 9.2 percentage points for grade five.
Robert Tobias, director of the Office of Research, Evaluation and Assessment, said the higher mathematics scores in the lower grades seemed to indicate a need for a strong push at higher grades.
 
'Curriculum Development'
''Clearly, we are doing a better job in second, third and fourth grades,'' Mr. Tobias said. ''There was a lot of curriculum development work in the seventh grades and they're beginning to approach the national norm. Where we have to do better is the higher grades.''
Reading scores are the most widely used indicator of how well students, their schools, and ultimately the entire system are performing, and Mr. Fernandez said he was concerned about the sharp drops in ninth and 10th grade reading scores this year. Last year 52.5 percent of ninth graders read at or above grade level, as did 60.8 percent of 10th graders. That is compared with 46.3 percent and 55.7 percent respectively this year.
''Everything we are doing in the redirection of the primary grades is to improve this,'' Mr. Fernandez said. ''There is some indication we have to do something different in the middle years. We're still hovering at the median and our task is get above that. I'm convinced reading is the key.'' Degrees of Reading Power ''The danger is in getting complacent,'' Mr. Fernandez said.
The reading examination is called Degrees of Reading Power. The individualized test scores, like the math scores, were sent home to parents in the last two weeks. Citywide, only fifth and 10th graders as a whole read at or above grade level. In other grades, most students read below grade level.
Ms. Wilner said the test scores will probably also have implications for the board's promotion policies. An analysis this year of pupil achievement in reading from 1986 to 1989 shows that the reading scores of students who are older than standard age are much lower than those who are the right age for their grade.
Among sixth graders, for example, 71 percent of standard-age students read at or above grade level, compared with 42 percent of over-age students.
 
More Females Than Males
''Clearly, the students who are being held back are not doing as well,'' Ms. Wilner said.
The reading score analysis also revealed that more females than males scored at or above grade level in grades three through seven. In grades eight, nine, and 10 more males scored higher. Morever, for eighth, ninth and 10th graders the percentage-point difference between the sexes increased as the grade level increased.
There was an increase this year in the number of students exempted from the math or reading test because of limited English proficiency, both because there were more student not fluent in the language, and because the state education department expanded the critieria for the exemption. Translations for the math test are available in Spanish, Chinese, Haitian-Creole and French. This year, 17,989 students (4.3 percent) took translated tests, compared with 14,746 (3.5) last year.
As always, there was a wide variation in test scores from district to district, although individual district scores in math and reading varied little from last year. The range was from the low of 29.7 at or above grade level in reading in District Five in Harlem to the high of 79.2 in reading and math at District 26 in Bayside, Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: READING POWER (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; READING; MATHEMATICS; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (56%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR); LEE, FELICIA R MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



53 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
A unified Germany seems to be on its way to dominating Western Europe's economy even more than West Germany had. On both sides of the remnants of the Berlin Wall, signs of an economic boom are everywhere, a result of the merger of the East and West German economies. [Page A1.] The exchange of currencies began with orderly lines outside banks. [A1.] With pockets full of hard currency, East Germans expressed confidence in the future. [A6.] 
Amid efforts by the Soviet Union to liberalize its stagnant economy, a seemingly quixotic movement to adopt a Western-style patent law is gaining momentum. [D8.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Gasoline prices remain high despite a 20 percent drop in crude oil prices. The United States refining industry does not have the capacity to produce more gasoline. [A1.]
A bill to subject insurers to antitrust law was cleared by the House Judiciary Committee. If adopted, it would overturn the way the industry conducts business.[D1.]
The economic slowdown that radiated from Wall Street has begun to affect the New York construction industry. [A1.]
 
 
 
Companies
RJR Nabisco has cut its capital spending plans by 45 percent as it struggles to cope with the billions of dollars in debt from the leveraged buyout of the company. The $100 million reduction cut into an already sparse budget from the new owners. [D1.]
Ratners Group, the British jewelry retailer, is expected to announce that it is buying Kay Jewelers. [D1.]
Time Warner accuses Pathe Communications of trying to sell the same film distribution and home video rights twice, in a $100 million lawsuit filed in Los Angeles. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
Spain's ebullient economy has spawned a boom in newspapers, as the demand for advertising increases. [D6.]
Robert Maxwell, who plans to challenge A. C. Nielsen in the United States, received setbacks in Britain and Australia. [D6.]
A group of journalists is exploring the prospects for a magazine that would ruthlessly scrutinize all forms of the media. [D6.]
More magazines are being started than ever before, says a journalism professor who tracks new publications, despite the industrywide plunge in ad pages. Magazines. [D6.]
Spin magazine is hoping to challenge Rolling Stone as the pre-eminent magazine of music and youth culture. Spin is still losing money, but is trying to change. Advertising. [D7.]
 
The
 
Markets
The performance of stocks in the second quarter turned out less gloomy than many financial analysts had predicted. Despite the sluggishness in the economy, many financial analysts said the market's performance had exceeded expectations. [D1.]
Many of the strongest foreign stock markets in the first quarter failed to continue to do well in the second three months. [D8.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
The big new scare for the already sluggish American economy is coming from the construction industry, particularly home construction. Building loans are hard to get, customers are scarce and the unemployment rate among construction workers is 10.3 percent, higher than in any other industry. Business Scene. [D2.]
Harman International Industries, the maker of top-of-the-line stereo speakers, is producing sweet and sour notes for Wall Street. The company's chief executive said 1990 earnings will be below last year's, and the stock fell to its lowest point in 52 weeks, but some analysts see a rise in 1991. Market Place. [D4.]
Interest rates are expected to drop in the second half, credit market participants and analysts say. Credit Markets. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SIG (NYSE) (54%); SIG (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); SPAIN (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (55%); SIGNET JEWELERS LTD (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); JEWELRY STORES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); PATENT LAW (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (68%); WRITERS (68%); INSURANCE (68%); LITIGATION (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (64%); PATENTS (55%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 



54 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Brace for Debate On How Industry Operates

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 1

 BODY:
In advancing a bill last month that would subject insurance companies to Federal antitrust laws, the House Judiciary Committee has set the stage for a long and bitter debate about the pricing and availability of insurance coverage.
Passage of this measure to repeal an antitrust exemption that was adopted in 1945 would overturn the way the insurance industry operates, but industry experts say it is not clear how the changes would affect consumers.
The complex debate can be distilled into a single question: Has the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 -which shields insurers from prosecution under the Federal antitrust laws - limited the availablity of insurance and kept premiums artificially high?
The consumer groups who are leading the attempt to repeal McCarran-Ferguson think so, while insurers and their trade-group representatives argue that the impact of the law has been badly overblown.
The industry also contends that a Federal law is unnecessary because their products and prices are already regulated by the states. But consumer groups say the states have widely varying rules and standards of enforcement. 
Oddly the two sides, which disagree strenuously on the issue, cite the same evidence to reach their conclusions.
For example, insurance executives argue that the industry is brutally competitive, citing the nearly 1,500 underwriters nationwide in the property-casualty business alone.
But Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, maintains, ''A truly competitive market could not sustain such a large number of players.''
Similarly, insurers note that prices for auto policies vary widely, especially in large cities, demonstrating just how cutthroat that business is. Consumer groups respond that if auto insurance were cutthroat, premiums would be falling, not rising, and would tend toward a single price.
The two sides even disagree about whether the exemption insurers enjoy is unusual. Craig A. Berrington, general counsel of the American Insurance Association, a trade group, notes that farm cooperatives, utilities and sports teams all enjoy some form of antitrust immunity.
But Edward Correia, a visiting professor of law at Northeastern University who studied the issue as a Congressional staff member, argues that insurers have a far broader exemption. Not only can they avoid prosecution under the Sherman Act, he said, but insurers are also not subject to Federal consumer protection laws and to the scrutiny of the Federal Trade Commission.
''Even if the biggest insurance companies in the country got together in a hotel room to fix prices, there is nothing the Justice Department could do about it,'' Professor Correia said. ''No other industry enjoys that privilege.''
 
Support of State Lobbyists
The McCarran-Ferguson Act became law largely because of the support of state lobbyists. States feared that if insurers were made subject to Federal antitrust laws, the Federal Government would soon take control of all aspects of insurance regulation, imperiling states' ability to collect taxes on insurance premiums. So the states joined forces with insurance lobbyists to push the law through.
The House bill, which has not been scheduled for a vote in the full chamber, would outlaw price fixing and allocating regions or customers. It would also limit the areas in which insurers can collaborate. A similar bill is pending in the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Consumer groups have no quarrels with some of these joint efforts and some collaborative practices may remain legal. For example, insurers commonly agree on the language in their insurance contracts and the risks they are covering. And reinsurers, who buy parts of policies from insurance companies to help them spread the risk, regularly team up to serve individual clients.
But consumer groups object to the way insurers set prices. Some disapprove of insurers' banding together in what are called ''joint associations'' to underwrite complex risks. One example of this is the assigned-risk pool, in which most large auto insurers compare their experiences in covering bad drivers and together determine premium levels.
Consumer groups say McCarran-Ferguson has enabled insurers to act like a cartel, convening to restrict supply and to set prices artifically high.
These critics say states are partly to blame because of their overall lax approach to pricing. Insurance regulation differs by state and by type of coverage. Only three states - Texas, Massachusetts, and North Carolina - set rates for auto policies. Of the remaining 47 states, roughly half require insurers to submit rates for approval, while the rest do not regulate auto rates at all.
Similarly, for homeowner's insurance policies, only about half the states require prior approval of rates, and the rest have no rate regulation. Business insurance rates are generally not regulated.
''Historically, the only strong, adequately funded insurance department has been New York's,'' Mr. Brobeck of the Consumer Federation said. ''I've heard the industry refer to the thousand-pound gorilla and all the spider monkeys.''
 
Studies Are Questionable
Many of the studies on the impact of McCarran-Ferguson are old or viewed as questionable since they were paid for by partisan groups. No one appears to have conducted a thorough study of the insurance market in California, which in 1988 repealed its antitrust exemption for insurers.
But the research tends to support the industry's view.
Scott Harrington of the University of South Carolina notes that in liability insurance for business the top four companies - American International Group, CNA Insurance, Aetna Life and Casualty and Chubb - have about a 31 percent market share. In auto insurance, he says, the big four - State Farm, Allstate, Farmers Group, and the Nationwide Insurance Companies - have about a 40 percent share.
''Most economists would regard that as low,'' he said of the concentration in the industry.
One study done 10 years ago found no difference in auto insurance rates between Illinois and surrounding states. At the time, auto insurance companies in Illinois were not covered by the McCarran-Ferguson Act because that state was the only one in the country that did not regulate auto insurance premiums.
At the heart of the pricing discussion are the rate bureaus, in particular, the Insurance Services Office Inc. in New York, the industry's largest rate bureau. Founded in 1971 and owned jointly by such giants as the Hartford, the Travelers and Aetna, the Insurance Services Office helps insurers develop the language in insurance contracts and gathers and analyzes data on the payment of claims. Most important, the I.S.O. has published a list of suggested premiums, to which many smaller insurers have adhered.
Consumer groups argue that the I.S.O. is the principal vehicle through which insurance price fixing occurs. They were not appeased when the rate bureau recently decided to stop publishing suggested premiums because the I.S.O. still provides critical guidance to insurers on how to set their rates.
''The bottom line is that the I.S.O. enables joint pricing of insurance, and that translates into higher rates,'' said J. Robert Hunter, president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization, another consumer group in Washington. He estimates that if McCarran-Ferguson is repealed, auto rates will fall by as much as 19 percent and premiums for homeowners' insurance would drop by about 12 percent.
But insurers disagree. They note that in the line of insurance that consumers seem most angry about -auto coverage - many of the industry leaders, including Allstate and State Farm, do not even subscribe to I.S.O.'s information services and therefore set prices independently.
Executives at I.S.O. say that if the organization were done away with, many small insurers that depend on its data could go bankrupt by setting premiums too low, thereby diminishing competition.
''We permit more companies to operate, not fewer,'' said Mavis A. Walters, an I.S.O. executive vice president.
While insurers and their critics disagree sharply on what would happen if McCarran-Ferguson were repealed, the issue is critical to residents of New York and New Jersey. In those states, roughly 25 percent of drivers participate in the assigned-risk pool for bad drivers. Most experts agree that the assigned-risk pool would be dismantled if insurers lost their antitrust exemption.
''Although it is not clear which way rates would go, the impact would be significant,'' predicted Charles A. Bryan, a New York-based partner in the insurance group at Ernst & Young, the accounting firm. ''The whole mechanism for insuring these drivers would be thrown out the window.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Robert Hunter, president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization in Washington. (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CRAIG A WEST (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MCCARRAN-FERGUSON ACT US MCCARRAN FERGUSON ACT (95%); INSURANCE (94%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); CARTELS (78%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); SPORTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N EDWARD CORREIA (62%); 



55 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Leading the Enigma Called Xerox

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
An enigmatic person may be provocatively appealing, but unfortunately for the Xerox Corporation's relations with Wall Street, an enigmatic company is usually seen as just plain annoying.
As Paul A. Allaire prepares to take over the chief executive's office from David T. Kearns at the company's Stamford, Conn., headquarters next month, Xerox enjoys a reputation as a model corporate citizen and is admired for its award-winning programs to improve product quality. And Mr. Allaire has been doing his best to spread enthusiasm for Xerox's vision of the future, which is built around the company's plans to create devices that combine the capabilities of copiers, printers, computers and facsimile machines.
 
Surprises and Complications
On Wall Street, though, the small band of analysts who still follow the nation's 21st-largest industrial company seem preoccupied with how hard it has been to project Xerox's performance since it branched into financial services, adding numerous surprises and complications to its balance sheet. And they grumble about how unrewarding an investment Xerox has been for most of the last 20 years. 
Wall Street wants to know which Xerox Mr. Allaire will lead: The one that lost key portions of its copier market to foreign competitors or the one that seized much of them back by designing better products and cutting manufacturing costs by 50 percent? The Xerox admired for research achievements, including the first personal computer, or the one that let other companies build and dominate markets based on them? The Xerox that has courted investors with a large, dependable dividend or the company that has piled up losses and debts in its bungled effort to diversify into insurance, leasing, real estate and investment banking?
Analysts anticipate strong leadership from Mr. Allaire, 51 years old, an electrical engineer by training who joined the company as a financial analyst in 1966 after getting a master's degree in industrial administration at Carnegie-Mellon University. He has been president and chief operating officer since 1986.
 
Shares Peaked in 1972
But it will take more than personal respect, which the 59-year-old Mr. Kearns has also enjoyed, to overcome Wall Street's accumulated irritation with the company. Xerox's shares peaked at $172 in 1972, a time when its name had become synonymous with copying. Last week, they closed at $46.875, their lowest level since 1985.
''Xerox has a track record of screwing up, so it's hard to bet against them doing it again,'' said B. Alex Henderson, who follows the company for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
Most analysts still following Xerox are specialists on the electronics and photography industries who are leery about their ability to dissect what is happening in the financial services segment. ''I'm predicting zero earnings from the entire financial business this year, but there's really no way to forecast,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''Basically, the financial side is unfathomable.''
Roughly a third of Xerox's $17.63 billion in revenue and $704 million in net income last year came from its financial businesses. But most of the financial businesses' profits came from gains in the investment portfolio held by Crum & Forster, the insurance subsidiary, and that source of income is expected to drop sharply this year. The company took a $400 million write-off early this year to cover expected real estate losses and some analysts fear further write-offs may be needed to cover reserve shortfalls at Crum & Forster.
 
Debt on the Balance Sheet
The growth in financial services has also piled billions of dollars of debt onto Xerox's balance sheet. The leasing business in particular relies far more heavily on borrowing than Xerox's traditional manufacturing. Xerox's debt-to-equity ratio at the end of last year was a hefty 64 percent; without the financial services group, it would have been 33 percent.
The uncertainties attributable to Xerox's financial services business might not bother Wall Street so much if the outlook for its traditional business were brighter. Growth in the company's document-processing business, which includes copiers, computer work stations and printers and the software to link and operate such equipment, has been steady but slow. Analysts fret that even a slight recession could lead to a sales downturn.
To be sure, Xerox's decade-long drive to modernize products and manufacturing, which helped it win the Commerce Department's Malcolm Baldrige quality award last year, appears also to have helped finally halt the slide in operating margins. But those margins, which were more than 20 percent in 1975 before the Japanese onslaught in the low end of the copier business gathered steam, are now a modest 5.5 percent.
 
Benefits From Revamping
Margins should begin to improve this year. The company is now getting the efficiency benefits from a revampin announced in late 1988 that scaled down electronic-typewriter production, phased out production of a proprietary work station in favor of marketing units made by Sun Microsystems Inc., and shut down manufacturing lines for medical equipment. Those moves reduced 1988 pretax earnings by $275 million.
Xerox is also helped by the switch from its older Series 10 copiers to the new and popular Series 50 models. Still, it is hard to imagine margins will ever approach those Xerox enjoyed when it owned a near-monopoly in the copier market.
In addition, rapidly changing office environments put pressure on Xerox for more aggressive product innovation. Analysts are worried, for example, that although Xerox has identified color copying as a probable growth area, it has let Japanese companies like Canon and Ricoh take the lead in marketing products.
 
Beaten to the Market
''Xerox says it will be ready when the market is ready, but the Japanese don't wait for that,'' said Peter Enderlin, who follows Xerox for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. ''They try things and are established as the market leader when it emerges.''
The Japanese have also beaten Xerox to market with early versions of the likely successor to today's copier: a computerized device that makes electronic instead of photographic images of documents. In theory, such devices could store, alter and combine documents, print them out, fax them and move them among work stations, as well as copy them.
Xerox's first challenge is to prove that it can outperform the Japanese in developing such technology, not to mention American competitors like the International Business Machines Corporation, the Digital Equipment Corporation and the Hewlett-Packard Company. All of them have moved into the processing of images and documents from their strongholds in computing. Xerox's first multifunctional machine is likely to be introduced in October.
 
I.B.M. Executive Recruited
In readying such machines for market, Xerox must balance demands for speed, quality and ease of use against cost. Xerox signaled its seriousness when it recruited William Lowe from I.B.M. in November 1988 to head the project to develop multifunctional machines. (Mr. Lowe had managed I.B.M.'s entry into the personal computer business.) But analysts saw the move as only one step in the right direction. ''You need to come up with something that customers have to have, not just a great technology demonstration,'' said Mr. Enderlin, the analyst.
Mr. Allaire and other senior Xerox officials were unavailable for interviews when this article was being prepared. But there is no doubt they understand the company's skeptics.
 
Plans to Sell Insurance Lines
Melvin Howard, the executive who ran the financial segment, announced his early retirement on April 2, the day it was announced that Mr. Allaire would succeed Mr. Kearns. Since then, Xerox has announced its intention to stop selling all standard personal property and casualty insurance coverage, which accounted for 11 percent of Crum & Forster's business, and sell its domestic third-party financing operations, which include leasing, loans to equipment purchasers and financing for other companies involved in restructuring.
At a meeting in early June for analysts who represent mutual funds and other major stock purchasers, Mr. Allaire said that any new investments in financial businesses would have to come from money generated in those businesses and that trimming financial services would continue to the point that whatever remains is profitable. And he hinted that even the profitable pieces might go, saying that he had already set up a special committee led by Mr. Kearns to review the company's involvement in financial services.
A decision to get out of all financial services other than financing purchases of Xerox equipment would square with Mr. Allaire's reputation. ''He seems to have a great concern with the nuts and bolts of operating the business,'' Mr. Enderlin said, ''and, as an engineer, more personal interest than Kearns in technology,''
 
Xerox Official Gets Fund Post
Melvin Howard, the executive who led the Xerox Corporation's troubled expansion into financial services, has been named president of the Management Asset Corporation, a Westport, Conn., investment management firm.
Mr. Howard, who is 55 years old, ended a 20-year career at Xerox on May 1, after Paul A. Allaire was named to succeed David T. Kearns as chief executive on Aug. 1 and the company began to pull back from its involvement in financial services. Mr. Howard had been vice chairman at Xerox.
Management Asset manages a number of corporate pension funds, a mutual fund and a hedge fund.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul A. Allaire is to be the Xerox Corporation's chief executive. (E.J. Camp/Outline Press Syndicate); charts of the weekly close of Xerox stock on the New York Stock Exchange; Xerox's 1989 revenues; Xerox's 1989 net income (sources: Datastream; Xerox)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PHOTOCOPIER MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (62%); RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; ALLAIRE, PAUL A ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



56 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Outperform Expectations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The performance of stocks in the second quarter turned out to be less gloomy than many financial analysts had predicted. In spite of sluggishness in the economy, many financial analysts said the market's performance had exceeded expectations.
''The second quarter did a lot better than the first,'' said Byron Wein, chief market strategist at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''Consumer nondurables and health-care issues did extremely well in the second quarter. The market seems to believe that either earnings will be better than expected or that interest rates are going to be lower.'' 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 173.48 points in the quarter, gaining 6.41 percent to close at 2,880.69 on Friday. Among the broader market indexes, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks gained 5.32 percent, to 358.02, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index was up 4.62 percent, to 195.48. Meanwhile, the American Stock Exchange composite index was down only one-tenth of a percent, to 361.21, and the composite index of over-the-counter stocks was up 6.1 percent, to 462.29.
 
'New Kind' of Buyer
''Even though interest rates are lower than they were at the beginning of the quarter and there is still a great deal of caution on the part of investors, it seems that you're getting a new kind of public buyer in the stock market,'' said Michael Sherman, the chief market strategist for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. ''He's not geared to short-term performance, but rather geared to an investment on a long-term basis. At the end of the first quarter, the advice many investors were getting was to reduce their equity positions.''
Kenneth M. Spence, the director of technical analysis for Salomon Brothers Inc., said the better performing stocks had one thing in common: ''visibility of strong earnings over the next 6 to 12 months.'' He added that stocks in the financial and more cyclical industries, like steel or construction, came under selling pressure. He said the stocks of cyclical industries had trouble because the companies were unable to pass on cost increases to consumers.
The big winner on the New York Stock Exchange was the Foxboro Company, a Massachusetts-based industrial controls company that agreed a week ago to be acquired by Siebe P.L.C., a British safety products and engineering company, for $52 a share, or $655 million.
On news of the agreement, Foxboro's stock soared $12.875 last Monday, to $51, and almost 1.2 million of its shares were traded. By Friday, the stock had more than doubled from the beginning of the quarter, to $51.375, from $20.25.
Foxboro had received a number of inquiries from potential suitors in the month before the announcement.
Another top performer on the Big Board was Oakwood Homes, a manufacturer of mobile homes and an operator of mobile home parks. The company, which is based in Greensboro, N.C., reported record sales and earnings, a result of its introducing a revamped line of mobile homes, company officials said. The company's stock rose 55.7 percent, or $4.25, in the quarter, closing Friday at $11.88.
 
General Development Plunges
The leading declining stock on the Big Board was the General Development Corporation, a big developer of planned communities in Florida. The company filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. General Development cited an inability to secure additional short-term financing. The filing followed the company's guilty plea for violating Federal mail fraud laws. The developer later agreed to pay more than $80 million to certain homeowners over 25 years. Its stock fell 84 percent during the quarter, closing at 94 cents.
Another big declining stock on the the Big Board was the Tonka Corporation, the Minnesota company that manufactures and sells toys and games under the Tonka, Kenner and Parker Brothers brands. The company, which reported net income of $7.7 million last year, said its level of orders had deteriorated in the first half of the year, adding that it was uncertain if it would post a profit for the year. Tonka's stock fell 51 percent for the period, ending the quarter at $6.25.
On the American Stock Exchange, the top performer was Lazare Kaplan International Inc., a diamond merchant controlled by Maurice and Leon Templesman. The company was also the Amex's top performer in the first quarter. Its sales and earnings have expanded with its expansion in Japan and elsewhere in the Pacific region. Its shares soared 83.1 percent for the quarter, or $12.25, to close at $27.
Another big Amex winner was OEA Inc., an aerospace and automotive products company based in Denver. The company is a leading maker of a device that ignites the inflator in vehicle airbags. Its stock has been helped by increases in airbag orders from the automobile industry. Federal law requires auto makers to install either airbags or automatic seatbelts in new models. OEA's stock rose 56.4 percent, or $11, for the quarter, closing at $30.50.
The largest declining stock on the Amex was the First Connecticut Small Business Investment Company, an investment concern that makes loans and furnishes equity capital to small businessees, primarily on the East Coast. The company has been hurt by depressed conditions in the New England real estate market. It recently announced that it was omitting its dividend. Its shares tumbled 58.6 percent in the quarter, to $7.625, closing at $5.375.
The biggest gainer among the over-the-counter stocks was the Y & A Group, an electrical engineering consulting firm. The company has expanded rapidly through internal growth and acquisitions. It reported record earnings of $221,000 for the first quarter, on record sales of $2.7 million. The stock was spurred by analysts reports, predicting that the company's sales would double this year to about $20 million.
Another big gainer among the over-the-counter stocks was Summit Technology Inc., a maker of lasers used to correct vision disorders. The Boston-based company intoduced a photochemical laser for treating farsightedness. The laser, which does not use heat, leaves the eye tissue intact, the company said. Summit Technology's stock more than doubled, closing the quarter at $17, up from $8.375.
 
Washington Bancorp Tumbles
The biggest losing stock among the over-the-counter issues was the Washington Bancorporation, a holding company for three bank subsidiaries, including the National Bank of Washington.
The company received an offer from an investor group, which was withdrawn after Washington Bancorp announced a $5.7 million first- quarter loss. The stock tumbled 82.3 percent, or $11.94, closing at $2.56.
According to Media General Financial Services, 733 Big Board stocks gained for the quarter, 748 were lower and 55 were unchanged. On the Amex, 219 issues were up, 278 were down and 23 unchanged. Among the over-the-counter issues, 992 were up, 1,021 were down and 92 unchanged.

GRAPHIC: Tables showing the common stocks that showed the largest percentage gains in the second quarter, as caluclated by Media General Financial Services. (pg. D1); Quarterly Nasdaq Gainers and Losers; Quarterly Amex Gainers and Losers; Quarterly Big Board Losers (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); ISYS (LSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (80%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (80%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); INVENSYS PLC (80%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (64%); FOXBORO CO (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ENGINEERING (62%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



57 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Times Are Tough For U.S. Builders

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
THE big new scare for the already sluggish American economy is coming from the construction industry, particularly home construction. Building loans are hard to get, customers are scarce and the unemployment rate among the nation's construction workers is 10.3 percent, higher than in any other industry.
Even successful builders, like Frank Wimer, president of the Wimer Construction Company of Pittsburgh, are feeling the pinch. Mr. Wimer built 12 suburban homes last year, selling them as they were built at prices upward of $300,000. But now he has five more under construction and none has been sold yet, a rare and unnerving experience for Mr. Wimer. ''I am not going to start more homes until I sell these,'' he said. 
His caution means that Wimer Construction's 1990 output will be, at best, only eight or nine homes - a 25 percent decline from last year. Mr. Wimer's behavior helps to explain why single-family home construction across the nation plunged from January through May to an annual rate of only 900,000 building starts, down from one million in 1989. Not since the recessionary early 1980's has home building been so weak.
Still, Mr. Wimer is luckier than many other builders. The nationwide surge in defaults on real estate loans has made lenders extra wary about financing anyone who is not a good credit risk. With 42 years as contractor, Mr. Wimer's two long-time lenders, the Landmark Savings and Loan Association and the Pittsburgh National Bank, continue to give him loans. But they charge him more.
''We used to get construction loans without upfront fees, but now we have to pay 1.5 percentage points,'' he said. In addition, the interest rate that Mr. Wimer pays on loans has risen to an annual rate that is two percentage points above the prime rate, or a total of 13 percent. Until this year, Mr. Wimer paid only 1.5 percentage points over prime.
The hard times did not pop up overnight. The construction of offices and other commercial buildings began to decline in 1988, and soon afterward apartment construction also shrank sharply. Both were victims of overbuilding in the 1980's and a backlog of unsold units. But the building of single-family homes remained robust, and this category is the industry's largest, representing 30 percent of all construction.
Then last fall, single-family home construction began to collapse, with building starts declining by 10 percent since October. The Northeast and the South accounted for most of the fall. ''The only thing that had held the construction game together was single-family housing and now it, too, is in the junk pile,'' said George A. Christie, chief economist for the F. W. Dodge division of McGraw-Hill Inc., which collects industry data.
Many explanations are offered for the hard times. The post ''baby boom'' generation is providing fewer home buyers. The sluggish economy has made people concerned about job security and therefore reluctant to go into debt for new homes. And the savings and loan crisis has been hugely destructive, on two counts.
The main one is that savings institutions are a principal supplier of construction loans. Not only have 1,000 of these lenders failed and disappeared, but a law enacted by Congress in August greatly restricted the amount that a savings and loan can lend to a single developer.
The builders could turn to other lenders, like insurance companies and pension funds. But Francis H. Schott, chief economist at the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, notes that insurance companies seek longer lending periods than those provided by construction and mortgage financing. And pension funds often restrict construction and home loans to 5 percent of their portfolios.
Aside from the credit crunch, the Federal Government is trying to sell tens of thousands of homes and other buildings, an effort that depresses already-weak real estate prices and helps to kill the demand for new construction. The Government acquired the property from failed savings and loan companies that had originally seized the buildings from borrowers who had defaulted.
Inevitably, the construction industry's troubles will show up as weakness in the gross national product. The G.N.P. measures the national wealth that is created through the production of goods and services. The construction industry, with five million workers, accounts for 7.5 percent of this wealth creation, and as current construction is completed - without new building to replace it - construction's contribution to G.N.P. will shrink.
Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company, estimates that the construction slump will result in a decline of two-tenths of 1 percent in the G.N.P. in the second half of the year, a not inconsiderable hit at a time when the G.N.P. is growing at an annual rate of less than 2 percent.
Could the construction slump tilt the economy into recession? Most economists do not think so. But given the credit problems and the big supply of unsold homes (an eight-month backlog, according to a Goldman Sachs estimate), the construction industry is likely to remain a weak sister for months to come.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL INC (60%); CONSTRUCTION CO NO 1 (57%); NATIONAL-BANK AG (54%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (54%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (54%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (54%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CONSTRUCTION (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS FRANK WIMER (92%); 



58 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Lower Rates Seen for Second Half

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Credit market participants and analysts say they are optimistic that interest rates can decline further in the final six months of the year.
Their enthusiasm is tempered by the fact that earlier predictions of a first-half drop in rates fell flat. Yet conditions that often accompany a rally in the bond market seem to be falling into place.
Inflation fears are fading, after pushing bond yields up above 9 percent for a brief period in the spring from just under 8 percent at the end of 1989. The economy is plodding along at a 1 percent to 2 percent rate of growth and seems disinclined to accelerate to a faster pace anytime soon. 
In addition, President Bush made it plain last week that he thought spending cuts and tax increases to cut the Federal budget deficit were in the nation's best interests. Mr. Bush's comments were sweet music to the bond market, a tune it has long been waiting to hear.
Even though the size of the deficit as a percentage of gross national product shrank during the latter half of the 1980's, ''the deficit reduction we did have was never viewed in a serious light by the financial community, because tax increases were never considered,'' said Richard M. Kelly, president of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, primary dealers in Government securities.
''Improvement in the prospects for meaningful deficit reduction adds to an already constructive environment for fixed-income securities,'' Mr. Kelly said.
 
Policy Committee Meets
The market could get further encouragement this week from the Federal Reserve Board. The policy-making Open Market Committee begins two days of talks in Washington today.
Most analysts said the Fed is not likely to take any immediate action to reduce interest rates, despite all the recent positive developments. But with some action on the deficit in the works and the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, scheduled to testify before Congress in mid-July, pressure is rising on the Fed to move quickly.
''Although increased fiscal restraint will bias the Fed toward an easier posture, any signs of renewed stirring in the economy will stay its hand,'' Richard B. Berner, an economist at Salomon Brothers, noted in the firm's weekly ''Comments on Credit.''
 
Employment Data Will Be Critical
''In this context,'' Mr. Berner added, ''the upcoming employment report will be more critical to the near-term direction of monetary policy than progress, or lack thereof, on the budget accord.''
David Wyss, chief financial economist at Data Resources Inc., the economic consulting firm, said that like a good poker player the ''Fed won't do anything until they are pretty sure a budget deal will pass.''
''But they may have to do something earlier than that if they see a soft employment report, which could happen.''
The June employment figures are due to be released by the Labor Department on Friday. Economists said another weak report would be particularly telling, because the survey period for June is five weeks rather than the usual four.
The Government has made the task of estimating the job figures more difficult because in June it dismissed many of the temporary census workers it had hired earlier in the year.
Excluding the Census workers, most analysts are projecting that nonfarm payroll employment rose between 125,000 and 165,000 last month after a census-adjusted gain of 17,000 in May. Analysts at Salomon Brothers point out that an increase of that magnitude would be the first significant gain in four months.
If the experts are right, and long-term interest rates fall significantly from their current level of about 8.40 percent, the drop would be met with thunderous applause in the debt-strapped corporate sector.
Robert A. Schwartz, a vice president and senior financial economist at Merrill Lynch, said that more than $42 billion worth of corporate debt with coupons of 10 percent or higher could be called during the current quarter.
A drop in long-term interest rates to 8 percent or lower would prompt a surge of refinancings, he said.
''The drop in rates we had during June prompted a nice deal flow,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''But if rates get to 8 percent I think you will see a real surge in new financings.''
 
Option to Refinance
Generally, corporations would choose to refinance callable debt if rates are betweeen one percentage point and one and one-half percentage points below the level at which the securities were originally issued.
In 1986, the last time interest rates dropped substantially, $40 billion worth of callable debt was refinanced, Mr. Schwartz said.
''I don't expect to see anything of that magnitude, but a lot of short-to-medium term debt issued in the 1982-to-1985 period would see significant cost savings'' if rates fell to 8 percent or less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (67%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); POKER (65%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (68%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



59 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* American General Finance Corp., a unit of American General Corp., Houston, is offering $100 million of notes yielding 9.387 percent due in 1994 through Salomon Brothers Inc.
* Citizens Federal Bank, Miami, is offering to exchange non-cumulative preferred stock and cash for its $110 million in subordinated notes.
* Divi Hotels N.V., Ithaca, N.Y., has extended the exchange offer on its two outstanding issues of debt securities until Aug. 14.
* Home Depot Inc., Atlanta, is offering $200 million in 6 percent convertible subordinated notes due in 1997 at par through First Boston Corp.
* Multimedia Inc., Greenville, S.C., is redeeming its subordinated discount debentures due in 2005 at their $480 million face amount. 
* Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., Syracuse, will redeem on Aug. 1 all its outstanding 11 percent series first mortgage bonds due in 1993.
* SFP Pipeline Holdings Inc., a new subsidiary of Santa Fe Pacific Corp. and Santa Fe Pacific Pipeline Partners L.P., has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an offering of $210 million in variable rate exchangeable debentures due in 2010.
* Service Merchandise Co., Nashville, has completed a $90 million offering of first mortgage secured notes due in 2000 through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
* Sumitomo Bank International Finance N.V., a subsidiary of Sumitomo Bank Ltd., Tokyo, is offering $500 million in 10-year fixed-rate notes through Goldman, Sachs & Co.
* USX Corp., Pittsburgh, has filed a registration statement with the S.E.C. for an offering of zero-coupon convertible senior debentures due in 2005 through First Boston Corp.
* United Merchants and Manufacturers Inc., New York, has extended until July 12 the exchange offer for its 13 3/4 percent senior subordinated debentures due in 2000 and its 15 percent subordinated debentures due in 2004. The company has revised the offer so that the increase in the annual interest rate in the exchange debentures is 3.5 percent instead of 3 percent.
* Weirton Steel Corp., Weirton, W. Va., has entered into a $100 million unsecured extendable revolving credit agreement with a bank syndicate led by Chase Manhattan Bank, a unit of Chase Manhattan Corp.
 
Common Stock
* Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc., Cambridge, Mass., is offering two million common shares at $12.875 a share through Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
* Marquette Electronics, Milwaukee, has filed with the S.E.C. for a proposed public offering of 2.14 million common shares through Robert W. Baird & Co.
* Vishay Intertechnology Inc., Malvern, Pa., has filed a registration statement with the S.E.C. for a public offering of two million common shares through Bear, Stearns & Co.
* Williams-Sonoma Inc., San Francisco, has filed for a proposed offering of 1.4 million common shares.
 
Preferred Stock
* Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor, Mich., is offering 2.4 million preferred units at $10 a unit through Roney & Co.
 
Ratings
* Calton Inc.'s subordinated debt has been cut to CCC+, from B-, by Standard & Poor's Inc. The construction company is based in Freehold, N.J.
* Charter Medical Corp.'s senior debt has been lowered to B-2, from B-1, and its subordinated and junior subordinated debentures have been lowered to Caa, from B-3, by Moody's Investors Services Inc. The operator of health-care centers and services is based in Macon, Ga.
* Philadelphia's general obligation bonds have been lowered to Ba, from Baa, by Moody's. Primericad(Smith Barney, Harris Upham)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); HD (NYSE) (72%); MRO (NYSE) (67%); X (NYSE) (67%); VSH (NYSE) (62%); WSM (NYSE) (61%); FNFG (NASDAQ) (60%); GCI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (72%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (72%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (70%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); NAICS486910 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); SIC4613 REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (69%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (69%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (67%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2253 KNIT OUTERWEAR MILLS (66%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (63%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (61%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (61%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (60%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (57%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (77%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SPRINGLEAF FINANCE CORP (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN GENERAL CORP (91%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (91%); SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (82%); DIVI HOTELS NV (72%); HOME DEPOT INC (72%); NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (70%); SERVICE MERCHANDISE CO INC (69%); SANTA FE PACIFIC PIPELINE PARTNERS LP (69%); SFP PIPELINE HOLDINGS INC (69%); SANTA FE PACIFIC CORP (69%); MARATHON OIL CORP (67%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (67%); UNITED MERCHANTS & MANUFACTURERS INC (66%); WEIRTON STEEL CORP (64%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (63%); GREENERY REHABILITATION GROUP INC (63%); VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY INC (62%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (62%); WILLIAMS-SONOMA INC (61%); SECOND STREET CAPITAL INC (60%); RONEY & CO (60%); FIRST NIAGARA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GANNETT CO INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); S E C (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (92%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BONDS (90%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (74%); DEBT FINANCING (74%); SYNDICATED LOANS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); 



60 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
New Dailies Proliferate in Spain as Ads Surge

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
Although newspaper circulation has remained stagnant in Spain since the 1930's, publishers have been rushing to start new dailies in a scramble to tap the booming advertising market here.
''Spaniards don't read newspapers,'' one senior Government official said, noting that Americans buy four times as many newspapers per capita than Spaniards. ''But this doesn't seem to put off publishers.''
Last year, El Mundo and El Independiente raised the number of national newspapers to eight. In May, El Sol, started with an investment of $30 million, joined the fray. 
Meanwhile, established newspapers are spending heavily on modernization, and more dailies are planned.
 
Spain's Ebullient Economy
The main explanation for such growth is Spain's ebullient economy. Advertising is booming, with total spending growing by about 25 percent a year since 1986. Nearly a third of this ad spending, or $2.2 billion in 1989, goes to the nation's newspapers, which print less than 3.3 million copies daily.
This advertising bonanza has spilled over into the glossy weeklies. Filled with social gossip and scandal stories, Hola, Interviu, Tiempo and Tribuna attracted a total of $1 billion in advertising revenue last year.
Indeeed, international media entrepreneurs, from Rupert Murdoch to Robert Hersant of France, are now awakening to the Spanish market.
But another factor is at work. Some Spanish financiers and business executives have concluded that newspapers and magazines are useful arenas in which to conduct political and economic battles. By investing very quietly in some publications, they have insured that their views do not go unnoticed.
 
Extraordinary Turmoil
So with television and radio also being buoyed by inflated advertising revenues, the Spanish media is going through extraordinary turmoil and prosperity. ''Obviously, everyone wonders when the bubble will burst,'' a Spanish journalist said.
The upsurge in Spanish publishing began after the death in 1975 of Generalissimo Francisco Franco, whose dictatorship insured that newspapers were not worth reading. In 1976, El Pais appeared and rapidly became Spain's most influential daily. Soon afterward, the magazine Cambio 16 gave birth to the daily Diario 16.
By the mid-1980's, with democracy well installed in Spain, newspaper executives began focusing more on economics than politics. Spain's entry into the European Community set off a burst of growth; the middle classes started spending heavily and advertising surged.
Today, three newspapers that survived the Franco era - La Vanguardia, Ya and ABC - are back on their feet. Three business dailies are fighting for an audience that may number only 100,000. And a total of 110 newspapers are being published.
 
Ambitious New Venture
El Sol, which took its name from a newspaper closed by Franco in 1939, is the most ambitious new venture. ''This is a long-term project with enough investment to win both market and credibility,'' said Jose Antonio Martinez Soler, its editor. ''We're not interested in sensationalism. We want to be serious, but not boring.''
Mr. Martinez Soler said El Sol, owned by German Sanchez Ruiperez, a leading book publisher, plans to focus on social change. ''Spaniards are no longer obsessed by politics,'' he said. ''They want to know about ecology, health, alcoholism, the quality of life and so on.''
To win readers, El Sol has initiated what it calls the ''plastic bag,'' which is distributed with its Sunday issue. It contains two magazines, a cooking course and an English-language course. The bag's cost is covered by an advertisement from a local department store.
Several weeklies are also providing their readers with gifts. Cambio 16 has been providing a small novel each week; Tiempo and Tribuna have given away videotapes of highlights of World Cup soccer games, as well as tape-recordings of purported ghosts in a Madrid palace, and Panorama has offered a video of an exhibition of Velazquez paintings.
 
Lure of Sensationalism
Still, a number of publications often resort to sensationalism to attract readers and thereby gain advertisers. ''In supposedly serious media, the wives of certain local personalities take up more space than the revolutions in Eastern Europe,'' lamented Juan Luis Cebrian, the founding editor of El Pais.
El Pais, though, still stands above the crowd. The newspaper, owned by Jesus de Polanco's Prisa Group, has the largest circulation in Spain, reaching 300,000 daily and about 800,000 Sunday.
No less significantly, it has maintained a high standard of journalism that some newcomers are aspiring to follow.
''You have to remember that most papers here are elitist by definition because there are so few readers,'' Mr. Martinez Soler of El Sol said. ''I want to start with the dominant class and then go down. There's no point in producing a newspaper for people who don't read.''
 
Growing Foreign Presence
Given the appearance this year of three new private television channels and the continuing popularity of radio, there remains a question of whether newspapers will continue to gain readers. But the growing presence of foreign investors suggests that this may not matter.
Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation has bought 25 percent of the Z Group, which owns several dailies and national magazines; Mr. Hersant has acquired 25 percent of the group that includes Cambio 16 and Diario 16; The Financial Times owns 35 percent of the business daily Expansion; and Dow Jones & Company has a share in Estructura, which publishes a business daily and weekly.
For them, advertising is key. As a share of gross domestic product, ad spending in Spain ranks second in the world after the United States and, in absolute terms, fourth after Britain, West Germany and France within the European Community.
But Mr. Cebrian of El Pais worries about the direction of the Spanish press, especially the deepening involvement of Spanish financiers and businessmen.
''The media feed on the values of the society in which they live,'' he said. ''The dominant ethics in Spain today are the ethics of profit.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ambitious new Spanish daily is El Sol. ''This is long-term project with enough investment to win both market and credibility,'' said Jose Antonio Martinez Soler, its editor. (Alan Riding/The New York Times); Chart showing Spain's advertising spending amount in 1989. (source: J. Walter Thompson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: EL SOL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



61 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
A 2d-Quarter Rebound for the World's Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
What goes up must come down, and vice versa. And that is just what happened in the world's stock markets in the second quarter.
Many of the top performers of the first three months of the year - including Austria, West Germany and Norway - all tumbled into the second division during the second three months. And the cellar dwellers of the first quarter - New Zealand, Sweden, Spain, Britain and even Japan - all moved up. 
The one consistent performer was Mexico, up 32.6 percent in local currency (28.7 percent in dollar terms) in the second quarter, after a 22.4 percent surge in the first quarter. The stock market rallied on the strength of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's economic program and the debt-reduction agreement with Mexico's commercial bankers.
 
A Kinder Quarter
Over all, the second quarter was much kinder to stock markets around the world. As a whole, world stock markets were up 4.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with a 14.6 percent decline in the first, according to the Financial Times world indexes in local currencies.
For American investors abroad, a weakening dollar added to the gains abroad. When translated back into dollars, the gains in the world's stock markets were 6.7 percent, compared with a 17.7 percent decline for the first three months.
''The first quarter was so bearish,'' said Gavin Dobson, president of Murray Johnston International in Chicago. ''There was a surfeit of bearishness at the time,'' he added, arguing that this realization helped the rebound in the second quarter.
Despite the reversals in the second quarter, for the first six months of the year the lineup of markets in the Financial Times world indexes changed little.
Eight of the 10 leaders in the first quarter - Mexico, Austria, Norway, Hong Kong, Singapore, Italy, West Germany and Denmark - are still among the top 10 in gains over six months. The new arrivals are Sweden and Switzerland. Europe Outperforms U.S. Over all, world markets fell 8.1 percent in terms of local currencies. The United States, which was up 1.1 percent, was outperformed by Europe, which was up 6 percent in dollar terms, and by 14 other markets. But in terms of its own currencies, Europe was up only seven-tenths of a percent.
In Austria, the 9.9 percent decline in the second quarter in local currency (8 percent in dollars) and the 4.3 percent percent drop in West Germany (3 percent in dollars) were mostly because of concern about the impact, both in cost and higher interest rates, of the economic union of East and West Germany, which took place yesterday. But the two markets rallied some in the last two weeks, and for the year Austria is No. 2 on the Financial Times list of 24 countries, with an increase of 38.5 percent (40.7 percent in dollars). West Germany is in ninth place, with a jump of 6.3 percent (8 percent in dollars).
Several factors accounted for the second-quarter gains: Rebounds often occur after sharp declines; some local economies showed improvements in interest rates and inflation, and some benefited from foreign investment.
 
Spain Up After Decline
Spain was up 17.4 percent in local currency (24.8 percent in dollars) in the second quarter after an 18.9 percent decline in the first quarter. Spain's market was helped by a huge shift of foreign investment as managers looked for alternatives to West Germany. Some progress on inflation also added to the attraction of the market.
Italy and Hong Kong also benefited from foreign investment, which helped push up the Milan bourse by 8.8 percent (10.6 percent in dollars) and the Hong Kong market by 9.6 percent (9.9 percent in dollars). Italy declined 1.5 percent in the first quarter, while Hong Kong was up 3.3 percent. Hong Kong got special help as the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre in June passed without problems and President Bush extended special trade benefits to China.
Switzerland was another beneficiary of foreign investors looking for a hot market. The market was up 8.8 percent (14.9 percent in dollars), after falling 7.6 percent in the first quarter. Richard Finch of James Capel Inc. in London said that the Swiss rally, which came in May, was helped by the expectation that interest rates had reached a peak and that inflation would decline.
Sweden, which fell 10.2 percent in the first quarter, jumped 25.7 percent (27.6 percent in dollars) in the last three months, led by foreign buying of leading stocks like L. M. Ericsson and Alfa-Laval. But the Government, which has been struggling to impose a tough economic program, faces possible labor unrest.
In Norway, where the Oslo market rose 14.7 percent in the first quarter, the decline in oil prices dragged the shipping sector down, and the market fell by 2.6 percent (two-tenths of a percent in dollars) in the second quarter. For the year, however, the market is still up 14.3 percent in local currency (17.7 percent in dollars). Like Sweden, Norway faces some labor troubles.
 
A Move to Stabilize Currency
Britain's stock market, which rose 5.4 percent (11.6 percent in dollars) after a first-quarter decline of 8.3 percent, rallied mostly on the back of the Thatcher Government's decision, when inflation is low enough, to take the pound into the European Monetary System. It is a move that should make the currency more stable and mean that inflation has been brought down to a reasonable level.
A rally in New Zealand of 5.7 percent (7.4 percent in dollars) in the second quarter may not continue because elections are due by October. But the current Government's economic policy is taking hold, which is improving the longer-term outlook for the market.
Japan set the tone of the first quarter with its 30.3 percent decline (37 percent in dollars) that threatened to, but did not, drag down other stock markets with it. In the second quarter, a strengthening yen helped the market rebound by 5.2 percent (8.7 percent in dollars), leaving it down 21 percent for the year.

GRAPHIC: Charts showing how the Stock markets fared around the world (source: Datastream, Goldman, Sachs & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); GERMANY (90%); NORWAY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DENMARK (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BONDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CARLOS SALINAS (56%); 



62 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Soviet Effort for Patent Law Reform Gaining Momentum

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1

 BODY:
Amid efforts by the Soviet Union to liberalize its stagnant economy, a seemingly quixotic movement to adopt a Western-style patent law is gaining momentum.
Proposals have been put forward to give people and private corporations exclusive rights to their inventions for 20 years from the time they apply for a patent. In the process, the plan would reverse doctrines dating back to the Revolution of 1917 that allow state enterprises to appropriate almost any technology and offer only token compensation in return.
''If we want to make our economy free, if we want to build business, we must bear some responsibility'' for protecting inventions, said Edvard P. Gavrilov, a professor at the Moscow Institute of the National Economy and president of the All-Union Patent Law Association, a national association of patent experts. He added: ''I cannot steal your watch. Why should I be able to steal your idea?'' 
 
Effort Begun in 1985
As early as 1985, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev expressed support for overhauling the Soviet patent system, Professor Gavrilov said. While the issue had not received high priority amid the many economic and political changes, the State Committee on Inventions and Discoveries, which oversees the patent system, recently organized a committee to make recommendations. That committee is led by Mikhail Gordisky, head of Soyuzpatent, an arm of the Soviet Chamber of Commerce.
Of particular importance to Western companies, the proposals would do away with provisions of current law that deem some fields, including pharmaceuticals and chemical processes, simply unpatentable.
The measure received a push last month in the trade agreement signed here by President Bush and President Gorbachev.
 
Pledge to Sign Treaty
As part of a deal to obtain most-favored-trade status with the United States, the Soviet Union pledged to sign an international treaty governing copyrights and to provide patent protection along the lines of Western laws. The proposed measure is expected to be considered later this year by the Supreme Soviet, the nation's parliament.
The proposal also has strong advocates among Soviet patent experts, who argue that a new law would help attract Western capital and technology and enable the Soviet Union to make better use of its rich scientific research. Compared with Japan and West Germany, for example, the Soviet Union has few inventions patented in the United States.
Milton Wayne, a patent lawyer in New York who has worked on Soviet patent issues for 15 years, said: ''The research they do is first class in some areas. The problem they have is that they don't know how to exploit it properly.''
 
Areas of Patent Strength
The strongest area of Soviet patents has been in heavy industry, particularly steelmaking, Mr. Wayne said. And only last week, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration to market ethmozine, a drug for treating irregular heart beats. Du Pont licensed that drug in 1974 from the Soviet Government.
The advocates of patent reform acknowledge that, with the Soviet economy in its worst crisis in years, they face a steep barrier of indifference. ''I am afraid most of our leaders consider it of little importance,'' Professor Gavrilov said. ''There are many other burning issues to be considered. The specialists have to push - can I use the word lobby? - to include this legislation on their agenda.''
In theory, the Soviet Union has long offered patent protection. In practice, protection for inventors is all but nonexistent. In addition to those fields that are not regarded as patentable, the law denies patents to anybody who develops a technology that has any relationship at all to work that person is doing for the Government.
 
Practice of Awarding Certificates
In lieu of a patent, the Government awards most people an ''inventor's certificate,'' which assigns the rights to an invention to the Soviet Government and to any state-owned enterprises that want to use it. Inventors are legally entitled to compensation, but Professor Gavrilov said the sums rarely exceed a few hundred dollars.
Although the law theoretically lets inventors choose whether to apply for a patent or a certificate, 80 percent of all inventions receive certificates.
Under the proposed legislation, most technology would be patentable, including genetically engineered micro-organisms and cell cultures. Inventors would be able to sell their patent rights or assign them to their employers in much the same way that company employees assign their rights in Western countries.
In drafting the legislation, Soviet trade and patent officials have carried on lengthy discussions with experts at the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The American team was led by Jules Katz, deputy United States trade representative.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I cannot steal your watch. Why should I be able to steal your idea?'' said Prof. Edvard P. Gavrilov, a Moscow economist who favors a proposed patent law. (Peter Wegner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (82%); DD (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (82%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (82%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; LAW AND LEGISLATION PATENTS (95%); PATENT LAW (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CHEMICALS PATENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); APPROVALS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



63 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Gregory Vistnes Weds Jessica Primoff

 BODY:
Jessica Lynn Primoff, the daughter of Arlene Kelvin of Bayside, Queens, and the late Melvin Primoff, was married yesterday in White Plains to Gregory Scott Vistnes, a son of Dr. and Mrs. Lars Vistnes of Los Altos, Calif. Rabbi Joseph Gelberman and the Rev. Pamela Blair, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at the Mansion at the Stouffer Westchester Hotel. 
Mrs. Vistnes, a graduate of Brandeis University, earned a Ph.D. in economics at Stanford University, as did her husband. She is an economist at the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research of the Public Health Service in Rockville, Md. Her father was a lawyer and an accountant. Her mother is a librarian at Hendrick Hudson High School in Montrose, N.Y.
The bridegroom, a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, is an economist in the antitrust division of the Justice Department in Washington. His mother, Carol Vistnes, is a fund-raising coordinator at the Children's Health Council in Palo Alto, Calif. His father is a professor of surgery at the Stanford University Medical Center in Palo Alto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (57%); AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY & RESEARCH (57%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); 

PERSON: PRIMOFF, JESSICA LYNN; VISTNES, GREGORY SCOTT LARS VISTNES (92%); GREGORY SCOTT VISTNES (79%); JESSICA PRIMOFF (57%); ARLENE KELVIN (57%); JESSICA LYNN PRIMOFF (57%); 



64 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev's Last Chance - Democracy

BYLINE: By Roman Szporluk; Roman Szporluk is professor of history at the University of Michigan.

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich.

 BODY:
For more than five years, Mikhail Gorbachev has preached the gospel of democracy. Starting today, with the 28th Communist Party Congress, he must begin to practice it or risk losing his remaining power base.
The time when a great reformer -a solitary czar-liberator - could dictate events is over. Mr. Gorbachev must now evolve into a great reconciler, negotiating his differences with the reformist forces emerging in the republics. At the center of this effort must be a reconciliation with his nemesis Boris Yeltsin, the president of the Russian Republic. 
Mr. Gorbachev initially had hoped to avoid this sort of politicking by using the Communist Party as his principal instrument in transforming the Soviet Union. Yet, as the recent congress of the Russian Communist Party dramatically underscored, the party has emerged as the center of opposition to reform. Indeed, in all likelihood the democrats will be forced to leave the party. Despite their rising and open hostility to their nominal leader, the anti-reform forces are unlikely to oust Mr. Gorbachev in the party congress -though they may have the necessary votes to do so. The more intelligent hard-liners know that a return to the Stalinist model would provoke violent resistance in the cities and would be a disaster for Soviet foreign relations.
In these circumstances, it has been widely suggested that Mr. Gorbachev simply give up his party posts and continue his reforms by running the state machine as President. But, as he is well aware, the new state machine is too weak - and the party is still too strong - for this to happen. The professional bureaucrats who dominate the party apparatus would continue their successful efforts to undercut economic reform.
The reformist democrats, for their part, have proven they know how to win elections. But they have trouble translating their electoral triumphs into control over city hall. They have a strong voice - though far from a majority - in the Congress of People's Deputies and the Supreme Soviet, and somewhat more influence in Russia than in the other republics.
But nowhere - not even in the liberal hotbeds of Leningrad and Moscow - have they yet established effective control. Anti-reform Communists not only direct the party apparatus but dominate in the middle and higher ranks of the state machine.
Fortunately, in this cacophony of political forces lie the seeds of a potent, progressive coalition. Mr. Gorbachev's task at the party congress is to begin the process of forging a strong alliance with the reformist elements, personified by Boris Yeltsin.
Mr. Yeltsin was elected by democrats and liberals in Moscow and Leningrad and moderate patriotic elements in the provinces. This same constituency - which Mr. Gorbachev fumbled away in clumsy attempts at old-style domination - has emerged in all the republics.
If they are to gain the power to govern effectively, however, these emerging reform movements need Mr. Gorbachev's support. They also fear the hard-line alternatives to him.
Mr. Gorbachev, who has alienated just about every faction, needs the reformers' support if he is to maintain power and carry through his dream of westernizing his country.
In addition to mending fences with Mr. Yeltsin, therefore, Mr. Gorbachev must strike a deal with reformers in all the republics: self-rule in return for their support of his future efforts at reform.
What sort of self-rule should he offer? In the Baltic states, the people will be satisfied by nothing short of independence. Mr. Gorbachev should recognize the inevitable and agree to work out a plan for autonomy.
But independence is not necessarily the rallying cry in all the non-Russian republics. Many, such as the Ukraine, Byelorussia and Kazakhstan would probably agree to remain within an overhauled Soviet Union that granted self-rule within some sort of confederation or commonwealth.
Mr. Gorbachev also should remain head of both the state and the party. Combining the two roles should allow him to pursue his reform program by gradually dismantling the governing functions of the party and, where necessary, replacing them with democratic structures.
For the current, fractured state of affairs Mr. Gorbachev has nobody but himself to blame. By refusing to share power, he has alienated his natural constituencies. Perhaps even more damaging is his ongoing conflict with Mr. Yeltsin. His attempt to prevent Mr. Yeltsin's election was a terrible political mistake.
Ironically, Mr. Gorbachev seems slower than his opponents to adjust to the vast changes he has wrought. By virtue of his celebrity status, he continues to exercise great influence. But to maintain his standing, he has to realize that the diffusion of power that he engineered has irrevocably changed Soviet politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: SZPORLUK, ROMAN; YELTSIN, BORIS; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (94%); BORIS YELTSIN (71%); 



65 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2971 words

HEADLINE: Economic Pulse; Southern California;
Test for Peace Dividend: Boom or Bust in California

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Southern California, perhaps more than any other region, offers a clear test of the American economy's capacity to convert from military to peaceful purposes.
For years it has been the center of the nation's aerospace and weapons industry, seemingly invulnerable to the economic vicissitudes that in the 1980's hit the once-booming economies of Texas and then the Northeast.
But an economic slowdown of uncertain proportions and duration has gripped this region in response to the easing of the Communist threat in Europe. And it comes against a backdrop of other problems in recent years, including growing congestion, soaring housing prices and increasingly costly environmental rules that have made this region less competitive for industry.
A crucial question is whether it can make up for lost business by taking advantage of the growing worldwide demand for commercial aircraft and expanding its space exploration industries. 
 
Pentagon Spending Peaked
Pentagon spending here peaked three years ago, and deeper reductions have caused recent announcements of layoffs by the region's major military contractors - including the Lockheed Corporation, the Northrop Corporation and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation - shaking confidence throughout California and sparking debate over whether such industries and their workers can readily shift to other work.
Aerospace and high-technology industries in the five-county Los Angeles basin - which embraces Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, Riverside and San Bernardino counties - employ nearly 420,000 people, or 7 percent of the region's 6.2 million jobholders, double that of the rest of the country. And in San Diego to the south, with the largest military presence in the country, one-fifth of the county's annual output of goods and services, or gross product, depends directly on military procurement and salaries.
 
Signs of a Downturn
While few economists here contend the region is sliding into a recession comparable to the Northeast's, there is a growing perception that the era is over when Southern California could rely on a laissez-faire business ethic leavened by good climate, balmy beaches and proximity to the Pacific Rim and Latin countries. The unrelenting optimism of the booming 1980's has turned into caution for the 90's.
Signs of the difficulties are apparent along the coast from Santa Barbara to San Diego. Retailers complain that sales are flat, permits for new home construction have plunged, banks are tightening credit rules, unemployment rates are creeping up and the superheated housing market has stabilized, with prices falling in some areas as home sales drop.
In addition, an unexpected slowdown in the growth of tax revenue has forced Los Angeles to impose new taxes, like a 10 percent levy on people who park in lots and garages, and to cut municipal spending.
California is far less dependent on military spending than it was during the Vietnam War, after which it suffered a much more severe recession than the rest of the country. The military's contribution to the state's gross product has dropped to 8 percent this year, from 15 percent in 1968. But the state's more diversified economy is now hobbled by the effects of huge growth - high housing costs, costly smog-control rules, traffic congestion, deteriorating schools, crime and drug abuse - that have made it more difficult to attract and retain industry.
 
'Everything Points To Slower Growth'
While Northern California shares many of the problems plaguing the Los Angeles basin, the situation is more pronounced in Southern California simply because of its large population.
''Everything points now to slower growth in California and Los Angeles,'' said David G. Hensley, director of California forecasting at the University of California at Los Angeles Business Forecasting Project.
''It is true we have moved away from defense,'' Mr. Hensley said, ''but we must take into account the other negative things that have developed - traffic, crime, costs, pollution, environmental regulations. Defense cuts in this environment will have a different effect than 20 years ago. People underestimate the importance of that segment.''
Mr. Hensley predicts that job growth in the state will drop from its recent rate of 500,000 new jobs a year to 300,000 this year, which would be the slowest rise since 1982.
Jack A. Kyser, chief economist at the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce, said: ''All this is making people think they've got to do a good old-fashioned job of economic development. Before, we ran by remote control; growth just happened. Some of the impact of the aerospace layoffs has been soft so far, by attrition. But as we go along, we'll see more and more outright layoffs, and that is very unnerving. People are very concerned.''
The latest blow came in early June when McDonnell Douglas, grappling with delays and losses in its new MD-80 passenger jet and with falling Pentagon spending for warplanes, announced budget reductions that were expected to add another 10,000 layoffs to the 7,000 workers it already planned to let go from its Southern California plants.
Mr. Kyser estimates that the Los Angeles basin suffered a loss of 12,500 high-paying jobs in aerospace, electronic components, navigation and other high-technology fields in 1989 and predicts a loss of 15,000 more this year.
 
Tumultuous Years, Then the Downturn
The slowdown comes after what was probably the most tumultuous decade in California since the Gold Rush. Los Angeles boomed. Spurred in large measure by the military buildup under the Reagan Administration and the success of the 1984 Olympic Games here, the area blossomed well beyond its origins in the entertainment industry. By 1988, the Department of Defense was spending a fifth of its budget, $57.2 billion, in California.
The largest share went to Southern California, where factories cranked out fighter planes and began work on Stealth bombers and Star Wars projects. Those programs, in turn, spawned a galaxy of more than 10,000 subcontractors. In 1986, the Los Angeles basin accounted for 5.6 percent of the jobs in the United States, but nearly 15 percent of the jobs in military areas.
The basin's economy was further stimulated by a surge in foreign and domestic migration to the region. In the last decade, its population grew at more than twice the national rate, to 14.1 million from 11.5 million, making it larger than any state but California, New York and Texas. At the same time, the region added 1.3 million non-farm jobs, a 27 percent increase, though its manufacturing base has been slipping in recent years.
The commercial ports of entry here became the nation's main funnel for cars, trucks, stereos and other products from Japan, South Korea and the rest of the Pacific Rim. International trade tripled in value over the decade, to $101.4 billion in 1989, making Los Angeles the second busiest customs district after the New York-New Jersey area, with $117.8 billion in 1989.
The once-sleepy downtown of Los Angeles exploded with a construction boom, with Japanese interests owning 30 percent of the skyline's newer structures. In the last decade, construction permits were issued for $15 billion worth of office buildings and nearly $9 billion for industrial buildings in the Los Angeles area.
Meanwhile, housing prices spurted. The median price for new detached houses rose to $369,000 by mid-1989, from $152,000 in mid-1986, and today only about one in seven households can afford to buy a median-priced home in Orange and Los Angeles counties.
 
Tremors in Europe Shake West Coast
But the tremors caused by world events have shaken the region. Among the projects under scrutiny by Congress and the Bush Administration are the C-17 cargo plane meant to ferry American troops to Europe, which is being developed by McDonnell Douglas in Long Beach; the Stealth bomber, which is being built by Northrop, and Star Wars research.
Also vulnerable are the Long Beach Naval Shipyard, with 4,000 workers, the Los Angeles Air Force Base, with 3,000 jobs, and the Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo, a kind of high-technology research organization for Government military security that employs about 3,000 people.
In all, 10 military bases and installations have been marked by the Defense Department as candidates for closures or staff reductions.
Lockheed, with its contracts for the Stealth and the P-3 antisubmarine craft running down, announced it would lay off 2,000 to 2,500 workers and would move its Aeronautical Systems Company to Marietta, Ga., with a loss of another 4,500 aircraft jobs in the Burbank area. Northrop said it would cut 2,700 jobs in the area because of likely Federal cuts in the Stealth program.
And San Diego was shaken in June when Defense Secretary Dick Cheney proposed eliminating 20 ships, or almost one-fourth of the Navy fleet stationed there, including 11 of the 15 nuclear-class attack submarines based there.
While most of the layoffs among military contractors have not yet begun, effects are already apparent. The unemployment rate for Los Angeles County was 5.4 percent in April, up from 3.7 percent a year earlier. The Southern California Gas Company, serving 56 percent of the California population, says new gas hookups are running 10 percent below last year.
 
Retail to Realty, A Softer Economy
''Retailers throughout California have seen fairly soft sales for the last several months,'' said E. Harlin Smith, a vice president of Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc., a Los Angeles-based company with 43 Broadway Southern California department stores in the region. He said sales from February through May were up a negligible six-tenths of a percentage point, as against an 8.6 percent increase a year ago. Sales tax receipts in Los Angeles are growing by only a third of normal this year.
The real estate market has also cooled. ''For the moment, California has priced itself out; the average guy cannot afford to buy anymore,'' said Michael S. Salkin, senior vice present of the real estate division at First Interstate Bank of California in Los Angeles. ''There needs to be a pause so incomes can catch up.''
Both Mr. Salkin and John Oliver Wilson, senior economist for the Bank of America, see no overall appreciation in California real estate this year.
In April, the median resale price of a single-family home in California dropped 2 percent from the previous year, to $197,107 from $201,034, according to the California Association of Realtors, with much sharper drops in high-priced coastal areas like Santa Barbara, which fell 8 percent. Permits for construction of new single-family and multifamily housing dropped by 29 percent in April, as against 1989, according to the Construction Industry Research Board.
Commercial vacancy rates in downtown Los Angeles are about 15 percent and rising, and they are running about 20 percent in some parts of Orange County, as against the national average of 21.3 percent. Mr. Salkin said banks are taking a ''good hard look'' at new building projects.
But few expect a fall in real estate like that in New York. ''At the end of the day, California continues to be tremendously popular,'' Mr. Salkin said. ''Land is scarce. We do not see a debacle.''
The crucial question is whether the reductions in military spending will precipitate the kind of downturn brought on by the contraction of the securities industry in New York.
Southern California suffered a body blow two decades ago when the Vietnam War ended. Employment in the state's aircraft and missile industries dropped by 120,000 jobs in four years, and unemployment rates swelled to three percentage points above the national average, drastically slowing migration to the region.
 
Despite Cutbacks, Some Sign of Hope
But many analysts argue that the region is far more diversified and far less dependent on the military today, with fewer than 4 percent of jobs directly dependent on the Pentagon. ''Over all, I see a slowdown in areas impacted by defense cuts, but those are isolated areas,'' said Mr. Wilson of the Bank of America. ''But we are not talking about a shakeout like the late 60's or early 70's.''
C. Lance Barnett, chief economist for the California Department of Commerce, said the local economy will be buffered by strong demand for commercial aircraft, electronics and space and communications products. ''While caution is warranted, we are not in imminent danger,'' he said.
A recent study by the Southern California Association of Governments was also confident. It calculated that if military spending continued at current levels, the region would create 1.26 million new jobs by 1995. Then it assumed that the spending was cut back to 1980 levels by 1995, a cut of about $90 billion nationally, or about one third. Under this scenario, it found that the region would create only 100,000 fewer jobs that it would have otherwise. And, it went on, if the ''peace dividend'' were shifted into space programs, the region could wind up adding 65,000 more jobs than the 1.26 million expected by 1995, even though 70,000 military-related jobs would vanish.
But others are much less optimistic. While the region is more diversified than ever, Mr. Hensley of the U.C.L.A. Business Forecasting Project wrote recently, ''We believe there is a risk of being too smug about California's prospects.''
He compares the California aerospace industry to the securities industry in New York, which has shed more than 25,000 jobs in the last two years.
''In the end,'' Mr. Hensley said, ''we may learn from the case of New York that a fairly small industry can have a lot of leverage even in a big, well-balanced economy. For California, which has more of its economic resources tied up in the military than New York does in the securities industry, the lesson should be that our 'crash' has not occurred yet, i.e. our unique vulnerability, which has been and remains defense cuts, has not been tested in twenty years''
No one yet knows how deep the cuts will be. But in a computer simulation based on an economic model of California, assuming declines in military spending at 2.9 percent in 1990, 9.6 percent in 1991 and 11.5 percent in 1992, Mr. Hensley concluded that the gross state product of California would fall by $7 billion, taxable sales would drop by $3.16 billion and there would be 151,000 fewer jobs than would otherwise be expected. He has also predicted that net migration to the state would drop sharply, from more than 400,000 last year to 250,000 in 1992.
Mr. Hensley's bearish views find some support in the aerospace industry. Stephen E. Chaudet, vice president for public affairs at Lockheed, where 39,000 of its 80,000 employees work in California, said that the cutbacks would have ''serious ramifications'' for the region and that he saw little to keep top aerospace workers employed for now.
''California has the potential to lose a lot of highly skilled and hourly employees,'' Mr. Chaudet said.
Lockheed is trying to replace some of its lost military business with a proposal to modify Boeing 747 passenger jets at two hangars at Norton Air Force Base, which is to be closed.
But union leaders are not optimistic about finding new jobs for the unemployed.
''The prospects are pretty bleak at this point,'' said Don Nakamoto, spokesman for District 722 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents 5,000 workers at the Lockheed plant in Burbank. which is to be shut, starting with 1,000 layoffs this month.
 
Living Cost Soars, Style of Life Falls
Further clouding the economic outlook, Southern California has become a costly and difficult place to do business. The typical house costs 215 percent of the national average, and some workers are forced to commute 70 miles each way. In fact, there has been a steady flow of longtime Southern Californians to other parts of the state and region that are cheaper and less congested.
Also, California is on the cutting edge of environmental regulations. This year, 34 new anti-smog rules are to be imposed in the Los Angeles basin, many of them putting expensive new burdens on manufacturers. For instance, the Douglas Aircraft Corporation, a subsidiary of McDonnell Douglas, spent millions of dollars to build special hangars in Long Beach to control fumes while painting aircraft, and then almost ended up not being able to use them because the smog-control authorities said the hangars did not adequately control the fumes.
The ultimate question is whether military contractors can convert to peacetime pursuits. Mayor Larry Agran of Irvine, in Orange County, has proposed having contractors build a $250 million, four-mile monorail in the city.
Ruth Galanter, a member of the Los Angeles City Council, has established a committee to explore the creation of an electric-car manufacturing industry, with backing from the machinists union. The San Diego Econonomic Development Corporation has been working with a group called Dollar for Dollar and with local military contractors trying to find commercial applications for their skills.
But such efforts in the past have largely failed. After the Vietnam War, Lockheed tried to diversify into education and computer services, Rohr Industries of Chula Vista tried building subway cars and the Grumman Corporation of Bethpage, N.Y., tried to build city buses.
''We all failed,'' said Harry R. Biederman, an economist who retired recently after 35 years with Lockheed here. ''Defense engineers are brought up in an environment not like the commercial one.''
He added that under military contracts, they had become accustomed to spending too much money on products to make them commercially competitive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the easing of the Communist threat and the reduction in the Federal defense budget, many companies will have to convert their operations for peaceful purposes. Workers assembled a commercial aircraft at the McDonnell Douglas Corporation plant in Long Beach, Calif. (George Brich for The New York Times); graphs of the military spending in California as a percentage of gross state product. (soruce: California Commission on State Finance); unemployment rate, nonagricultural-job growth and population growth rates in Southern California (source: Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce Economic Development; Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistice; U.C.L.A. California Forecast) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A special report.

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (84%); NOC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (69%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (69%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (84%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (69%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (68%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; PRICES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ENVIRONMENT; POPULATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ASTRONAUTICS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ETHICS (69%); CREDIT REGULATION (69%); AIRLINES (68%); BUSINESS ETHICS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); RETAILERS (63%); COASTAL AREAS (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT DAVID G HENSLEY (58%); 



66 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
East Germans Find Shelves Full And Opt for Food, Not Frivolities

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST BERLIN, July 2

 BODY:
East Germans took their new West German marks for a trial spin today, hunting through stores newly stocked with Western goods, but for now they appeared mostly to be just looking.
The East Germans' practical approach heartened officials who had feared an inflationary shopping spree as the West German currency was adopted in the East with the economic union that went into effect on Sunday.
Checks around East Berlin and reports from other cities indicated that East Germans used their money to buy things that they had planned to buy for some time, or to stock up on food.
On a tour of shops in Leipzig, the West German Economics Minister, Helmut Haussmann, said, ''I am impressed by the entrepreneurs who switched supplies overnight, and by consumers and customers, who did not fall into a buying orgy with the D-mark but studied and checked out the situation.''
Reacting in part to the smoothness of the monetary union, West German stocks, especially blue chips, and the mark itself ended the day higher in trading. The mark, buoyed by the anticipation of tax increases in the United States, closed at 1.6538 to the dollar, up from 1.6715 on Friday. 
''To sum it up: optimism for a new German capital market,'' said Klaus Belling, a dealer on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
 
Political Progress
On the political front, officials in Bonn and East Berlin began work on the final push to full political unity, which Chancellor Helmut Kohl hopes to achieve in December with all-German elections.
That push gained momentum today with the announcement by the governing Christian Democrats in East Germany that all-German elections should be held on Dec. 2.
Gunther Krause, the parliamentary floor leader of the Christian Democrats, said the elections would be preceded by voting in East Germany on Oct. 14. That vote would restore the five states that existed in East Germany before the Communist Government abolished them, meeting a requirement for unity in the West German Constitution.
Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere, the Christian Democratic leader, said on Sunday that all-German elections could take place by the end of the year. But first, he said, East Germany would have to restore a federal system through a vote. And the military status of the unified country would have to be agreed on by the four World War II Allies - Britain, France, the Soviet Union and the United States.
Members of the governing coalition in East Berlin, which includes Foreign Minister Markus Meckel's Social Democrats, opened meetings to discuss the next ''state treaty'' with Bonn, which will deal with the legal, political and practical arrangements for unity.
In Bonn, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, a strong advocate of holding elections in December, said in a televised interview: ''We want to achieve German unity this year. We want to vote in an election this year.''
 
'Big Choice' Now
At the huge Centrum Kauf am Alex department store on Alexanderplatz in East Berlin, almost entirely restocked with Western goods, the biggest sellers were television and video sets, refrigerators, athletic shoes and children's toys.
''Everybody is buying the one thing they've been missing a long time,'' said Gabriele Sandhop, who came to Centrum with her daughter Claudia. ''For example, we've been looking for shoes for my daugher. She needs especially big shoes, and we could never find anything before. Today, we came here and there was a big choice.''
East German goods were either missing or lost in the abundance of Western wares. Many had been sold in clearance sales last month, and many others were simply deemed incapable of competing in price or quality. Those that were still on sale were drastically reduced to match the Western goods. A television set that once cost 6,000 marks, or about $3,600, stood on sale for one-tenth that amount.
 
'A Lot More Joy'
At the toy department, a saleswoman, Hannelore Vogt, described with a smile how a couple asked for a bicycle for their 7-year-old son. ''I said, 'I'll go see if we have any left,' and immediately I realized that of course we have many left,'' she said. ''It was a mechanical reaction from the old days, when we just distributed goods until they ran out.''
Despite the crush of customers, Mrs. Vogt said, it was much more fun to work. ''We came to work with a lot more joy,'' she said. ''In the old days, all we did was go back to the storeroom and see if we have one. Now we can give advice. We can help people.''
The combination of pragmatism with a touch of self-indulgence was evident at Das Internationale Buch, a large bookstore. Thrillers by Stephen King were doing well, but so were ''how to'' books - ''How to Apply for a Job,'' ''Rent Laws A to Z,'' ''How to Start a Business'' and the like.
With so large a new market opening up, advertisers were quick to seize on East German themes. One television ad for coffee said: ''The revolution of last fall continues. Here are our revolutionary new coffee prices.''
For all the smoothness of the first shopping day of economic union, there were also the first harbingers of the tensions expected when East German companies begin failing or laying off large numbers of workers. Estimates have ranged to as many as two million unemployed by year's end.
 
Things Go Smoothly
About 20,000 supporters of the East German metal workers union held brief work stoppages to back the workers' demands for a two-year guarantee of their jobs and wage increases.
Another brief warning strike was also reported at the Ludwigsfelde auto-parts plant south of East Berlin, where workers are demanding a shorter work week and higher pay. In East Berlin, 66 coal dealers protesting the lifting of state subsidies briefly blocked four loading points.
East German workers on average earn 60 percent less than West German workers, and the discrepancy is likely to become a source of contention now that the West German mark is common to both states. Until the end of the year, however, East German rents, public transport and energy prices will remain frozen at their former low levels, lifting the spending power of East Germans.
But on balance, the first day of economic union seemed to hearten officials.
''There are all the reasons now to expect that the new currency in the G.D.R. is being used with thought,'' said the West German Government spokesman, Dieter Vogel. The Government had watched ''with great satisfaction how calmly, almost routinely, the distribution of D-marks passed in the G.D.R.''
Officials said 3.4 billion marks were withdrawn in the first day of monetary union. At the same time, Rudiger Wrede, director of the new Deutsche Bank branch in East Berlin, said many East Germans had opened savings accounts with 10,000 to 20,000 marks.
 
Filling the Larders
Most of the first-day purchases were reported in grocery stores. Supplies had become ever scarcer in the days leading up to monetary union as shops sold off East German products and customers stocked up at old prices, and for many this was the day to check out the new prices and refill their larders.
Staples like bread, potatoes, milk, meat and sausage, subsidized under Communist rule, were more expensive, sometimes four times more. But products like chicken, butter, vegetables and fruit were cheaper.
The initial buying patterns substantiated studies that said East Germans would probably first buy cars, then vacations and then electronic equipment like television sets, stereos and video players.
''What we hope is that after all that they may want a new kitchen,'' said Gottfried Frauenstein, director of the Profit Center furniture store in East Berlin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Western goods filled East Berlin's formerly empty shelves yesterday and beckoned to shoppers who carried their new West German marks. (Reuters) (pg. A1); Children in East Berlin yesterday peering at goods from the West. East Germans received the West German mark over the weekend. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOOD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GERMAN MARK (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (85%); CURRENCIES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BONDS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TRENDS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 



67 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Rebel Forces in Liberia Surround the Capital and Begin an Attack

BYLINE: y CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2

 BODY:
Rebel forces began a major assault on Liberia's capital, Monrovia, today, and have cut all the main roads into the city, a senior Bush Administration official said.
''The battle of Monrovia has begun,'' said Herman J. Cohen, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. ''It is serious. The rebels have effectively surrounded the city and they are moving toward the inside of Monrovia.'' 
Mr. Cohen also said that the Government of President Samuel K. Doe was concentrating its efforts on survival.
Mr. Cohen said a representative of Economic Community of West African States was trying to mediate a settlement to avert a bloody battle in the heart of the city. The representative, he said, ''expressed some hope the talks might resume.''
 
Diplomatic Discussions
A second Administration official monitoring events in Liberia said Vice President Harry S. Moniba and other officials of the Doe Government were meeting with United States diplomats at the American Embassy in Monrovia. They were discussing ways of removing General Doe from the country and seeking a settlement to the fighting.
But the official added, ''The march of military events seems to be outpacing the efforts at negotiation.''
The Reuters news agency reported that most of the members of General Doe's Cabinet and other senior officials have fled the country, while the President appears to have remained in his fortified mansion in Monrovia surrounded by about 500 special troops. Commerce Minister John Wisseh McClain, General Doe's speech writer, reportedly tried but failed to board an aircraft leaving the country.
Talks between the Government and the rebels in Freetown, capital of neighboring Sierra Leone, broke down last week when the rebels refused to continue. The fighting began in December, when 150 guerrillas of the National Patriotic Front, headed by Charles Taylor, crossed the border into northeastern Liberia. Since then, the rebels, whose numbers have increased to several thousand, have pushed the Government forces out of virtually all the northeastern and north-central parts of the country.
The rebels, who have reportedly received training and financial support from Libya, have taken many important economic objectives, including the country's important iron mines, the Firestone rubber plantation, and Buchanan, the second-largest city.
 
Reports From Monrovia
Reports from Monrovia itself were few and vague due to the cutting of telephone and telex lines, but there were indications that at least one army base on the edge of the city was in flames. Rocket, artillery and automatic-weapons fire reverberated from the eastern suburb of Paynesville, while frightened people streamed out of the capital, according to pooled dispatches from journalists in the city and local radio broadcasts monitored from the neighboring Ivory Coast.
The rebels moved into the capital this morning in a two-pronged attack from the northwest and the east. Some Government troops fled from the fighting, jumping into pickup trucks heading downtown, and Mr. Cohen said there was no sign that the army was effectively resisting. Lieut. Gen. Henry Dubar, the army chief of staff, resigned over the weekend.
Mr. Taylor, who has accused General Doe's Government of brutality and large-scale corruption, has promised a thorough political house-cleaning but has equivocated about his intention to hold national elections. The war has been fought mostly along tribal lines, with members of the Krahn and Mandingo ethnic groups, who hold most high positions in the Government and army, battling the Gio and Mano tribes. Both the rebels and the Government forces have been accused of brutal attacks on civilians during the fighting.
The peace talks, held at the United States Embassy in Sierra Leone, failed when General Doe refused to accept a rebel demand that he resign unconditionally. The Liberian President promised not to run for re-election in January and offered to include the guerrillas in an interim government, but the rebels refused to continue the talks. In response to the offensive, General Doe repeated his peace offer on radio today. #4 American Ships The United States Navy has deployed a four-ship task force off the Liberian coast to evacuate about 800 Americans still living in the West African country. American officials in the last few weeks have expressed concern that forces of either side, particularly those of General Doe, were undisciplined and could go on a rampage. There were reports today that drunken soldiers were commandeering cars and extorting money from civilians.
Mr. Cohen said the Navy ships ''are ready for an emergency evacuation if necessary.'' But, as of Monday evening, he added, ''we don't have any reports of Americans being harmed or asking to leave.''
The United States has had close relations with Liberia since it was colonized and founded by freed American slaves in the early 19th century. American installations in the country include a navigational station that guides ships and aircraft across wide areas of the Atlantic Ocean, and two communications relay stations, one that transmits the Voice of America and the other that handles diplomatic and intelligence traffic for nearly all of Africa south of the Sahara.
Mr. Cohen said the Voice of America station is already behind rebel lines, but remains unharmed. He said, so far, the rebels ''have been disciplined and correct.''
Government forces control the area where the diplomatic and intelligence station is situated, and it also remains undamaged, Mr. Cohen said.
 
Abuse Is Reported
Mr. Cohen was less sanguine about human rights in Monrovia. He said United States officials were receiving reports of the abuse of civilians, carried out along tribal lines, by both sides. Such violence, he said, included beatings and shootings.
Washington has had a sometimes close, sometimes difficult relationship with the Doe Government since it took power in a bloody 1980 coup, which resulted in the execution of President William R. Tolbert and other members of the deposed Government. The Reagan Administration was critical of the executions and later of the Doe Government's corruption. But between 1980 and 1985, the Administration granted Monrovia $500 million worth of military and economic aid.
The relationship began to sour after accusations that the Doe Government tampered with election results in 1985, leading to a succession of Congressional aid cutbacks. This year, Liberia received no military aid and just $10 million in food and other humanitarian assistance.
Still, the Bush Administration was reticent about cutting all ties to the Doe Government. In February, two American military advisers were dispatched to a northeastern combat zone in an effort to improve the Liberian Army's human rights performance. Based on the advisers' counsel, some officers were transferred, but American officials have privately admitted that the army continued to abuse villagers.

GRAPHIC: Map of Liberia showing location of Monrovia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBERIA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (93%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY ACTION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); CIVIL WAR (79%); ARMIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); POLITICS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); IRON MINING (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: DOE, SAMUEL K (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD SAMUEL K DOE (95%); HERMAN J COHEN (80%); 



68 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-12

 
The 28th Communist Party congress began in Moscow with an address by President Gorbachev. He offered an uncompromising defense of his economic and foreign policies, but the performance left most of his fractious audience cold. Page A1

 
Humorlessly, a long-ruling party looks at itself
 A11

 
East Germans shopped cautiously. Armed with their new West German marks, they went hunting through stores newly stocked with Western goods, but for now they appeared to be mostly just looking. A1 
 
 
Capitalism was confronted soberly by most East Germans as they returned to work after a joyous celebration of the economic unification of the two Germanys. A12

 
With nonreaders gone, Marxism's journal fails A12

 
News analysis: The NATO strategy proposed by President Bush making nuclear weapons an arms system of ''last resort'' maintains the alliance's position that it has a right to use nuclear weapons first in response to a Soviet conventional attack. A1
 
About 1,400 Muslim pilgrims died in a stampede in a crowded pedestrian tunnel leading to the sacred city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia, witnesses and diplomats said. A1

 
Fewer Palestinians were killed in connection with the uprising last month than during any month since the Palestinian unrest began 31 months ago. A3
Blacks stayed home from work across South Africa at the start of a weeklong campaign organized by the African National Congress and its allies to protest factional violence in Natal. A2

 
A major assault on Liberia's capital, Monrovia, was begun by rebel forces. They cut all the main roads into the city, a senior Bush Administration official said. A2

 
The 42 poorest nations in the world are telling the seven richest nations what they would like to see come out of an economic summit meeting to be held next week in Houston. A3

 
Quebec struggles to find new role A6

 
Wuzhong journal: A Muslim corner of China A4

 
National A14-15, B5

 
California's economy has faltered in response to the easing of the Communist threat in Europe. Pentagon spending in the region peaked three years ago and deeper reductions have caused announcements of layoffs by major military contractors. A1

 
Redistricting can be challenged by legal aid lawyers, a Federal district judge has ruled in a rebuff to the Federal Legal Service Corporation, which had barred local agencies from working on such cases. A14

 
President Bush's reversal on taxes promises to make life harder for at least one incumbent Republican, Representative John Hiler of Indiana, who is a longtime opponent of higher taxes. A14

 
The key witness in the Barry trial testified that Mayor Barry told her seven times that he did not want any drugs. But the witness, Rasheeda Moore, said she as well as the Federal agents who overheard the refusals decided to continue the operation.
 B5

 
Two ships collided in the Chesapeake in a thunderstorm on Sunday night, severely damaging the vessels and spilling about 30,000 gallons of heavy fuel oil. A14

 
The leader of Orthodox Christians arrived in the United States for a month-long visit. The Ecumenical Patriarch Dimitrios I of Constantinople is the spiritual leader of more than 250 million Eastern Orthodox Christians. A15

 
A manslaughter trial in Boston, one of a growing number of cases involving the parents of children who have died under Christian Science care, has received particular attention because it is in the city that is the worldwide headquarters of the church. A15

 
Hubbardton journal: A battle has broken out in a Vermont town over plans to stage a re-enactment of a Revolutionary War battle. The state says the re-enactment would demean the drama and memories of the original battle. A14

 
Regional B1-4

 
Imelda Marcos was acquitted of charges that she looted her country's treasury and invested the money in the United States. The widow of the former Philippine president wept when she heard the verdict. A1

 
News analysis: Did the case belong in the U.S.? B3

 
President Aquino disappointed by the acquittal B3

 
Mayor Dinkins chose a black woman for the remaining seat on the Board of Education, completing a board whose diversity reflects the New York City school system's largely black and Hispanic population. A1

 
The Rev. Al Sharpton was acquitted. After deliberating for six hours, a jury cleared Mr. Sharpton of fraud and larceny charges brought by the State Attorney General's office. B1

 
The judge in the Bensonhurst trial said he would give the jury deliberating murder charges against John S. Vento until today to reach a verdict or he would declare a mistrial. B1

 
Representation by a lawyer can be restricted in some criminal cases,
 
New York State's highest court ruled, reversing a decision that had made New York's right to counsel the most far-reaching in the nation. B1

 
The regulation of horse racing in New York will be changed under a law signed by Governor Cuomo. The measure will clear the way for competition to New York City's virtual monopoly over offtrack betting.
 B1

 
Three health-care bills approved in Albany B2

 
Judge overturns a zoning law
 B2

 
''Waiting for Harold,'' a L.I.R.R. saga B2

 
Man is firing needles at the backs of women in New York
 B2

 
Business Digest D1

 
Science Times

 
Genetic factor emerges as key to Lyme arthritis C1

 
Hubble astronomers add up their losses C1

 
In rats, more to admire and more to fear C1

 
Invasion tactics of viruses C3

 
Volunteers pay to aid ecological researchers C4

 
Personal Computers C6

 
Science Watch C8

 
Peripherals C10

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Confidence and crises at BAM C11

 
Scotland Yard in Sotheby's case C14

 
Film: ''Die Hard 2'' C11

 
Music: Latin Jazz Jam C12

 
Barbara Carroll's pianism C12

 
Xiao-lu Li on violin C14

 
Russian Chamber Chorus C18

 
Dance: Nanette Bearden troupe C13

 
''The Sleeping Beauty'' C13

 
Word and Image: New novel by R. K. Narayan C15

 
Reshaping effort at WNYC-TV C16

 
Changing a man into a woman C16

 
Fashion Page B7

 
Sprightly clothes for cruise or career
 
By Design
 
Patterns
 
Sports

 
Baseball: Mattingly sidelined B9

 
Hawkins coping with no-hitter letdown B10

 
Mets' hitters come through B10

 
Red Sox beat Rangers B10

 
Boxing: King vs. Douglas in Federal Court B11

 
Columns: Berkow on no-hitters B9

 
On Horse Racing B10

 
Cycling: Rider looks to classical music B11

 
Soccer: Turin braces for semifinal B9

 
Naples loves Italy more than Maradona B11

 
SportsPeople B10

 
Tennis: Capriati loses to Graf B9

 
Becker beats Cash B12

 
10-year-old prodigy B12

 
Obituaries B6

 
Dr. J. C. R. Licklider, an early computer innovator
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A16

 
A better idea on tax credits
 
Wrong surgery for sick schools
 
David C. Unger: Argentina
 
Letters A16

 
Anthony Lewis: A glorious Fourth A17

 
Flora Lewis: Get Gorbachev moving A17

 
Walter F. Mondale: Lip-reading aside, Bush deserves applause
 A17

 
Stanley A. Weiss: For a heftier peace dividend A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (51%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); LAYOFFS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); REDISTRICTING (60%); LEGAL AID (60%); JUDGES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



69 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Poorest Countries Seek Increases in Aid

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 2

 BODY:
As the world's seven richest nations prepare for their annual economic summit meeting, to be held next week in Houston, the 42 poorest nations are knocking at the door to tell the haves what the have-nots would like to see come out of that exclusive gathering.
Last week the Foreign Ministers of Bangladesh, Somalia, Sudan and Togo, representing the so-called least-developed nations, visited Washington and gave President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d a list of requests before flying to Tokyo to do the same to the Japanese Government.
Not suprisingly, the poor countries -countries where the average citizen earns less than $500 a year - are seeking additional aid, debt relief and the chance to sell more to the industrial world. But the demands are perhaps more urgent this year because they come after the poorest of the poor failed to achieve the goals they set themselves for the 1980's, including 7 percent annual economic growth rates and an end to illiteracy. 
 
Delegation's Travels
Earlier in June, the delegation made similar calls in Paris, Bonn, London and Rome - four of the capitals that will be represented at Houston - as well as to the United Nations in Geneva, the European Commission in Brussels and representatives of the Nordic countries in Stockholm.
On Saturday, two days before the summit conference opens, former Prime Minister Bettino Craxi of Italy is expected to lend his support for more generous debt relief when he presents Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar in Geneva with a report commissioned by the United Nations on the third world's crushing debt burden.
''As the summit approaches the least-developed countries are doing everything to put our concerns before the seven, to tell them things are desperate,'' Bangladesh's Foreign Minister, Anisul Islam Mahmud, the delegation leader, said in an interview here before the group went to Tokyo.
 
Concessions Wanted
The poorest nations are urging the seven to persuade the rest of the industrialized world to grant them further concessions at the second United Nations Conference on the Least-Developed Countries, which opens in Paris on Sept. 3.
Foreign Minister Mahmud reported that the seven were showing ''interest and sympathy for our requests'' but were avoiding hard promises before the Houston meeting. ''Secretary Baker said he will do his best but he was not specific,'' he said.
Mr. Mahmud said the seven are preaching a new development doctrine to the poorest countries these days, telling them that if they want Western help they must become more democratic and respect human rights.
This view, which has been gaining ground among development economists, holds that autocratic third world governments often hamper overall national development by following economic policies that favor the Westernized elites that support them.
 
Skills of Ordinary People
A democratic approach is said to spread resources more evenly, seeking to raise the skills of ordinary people so they can improve their own living standards.
''The elites have hijacked development,'' said Mahbub ul-Haq, a Pakistani economist who earlier this year produced a United Nations report classifying countries by the level of ''human development'' they have achieved.
Mr. ul-Haq's report said 20 of the 25 developing countries with the lowest level of human development are African dictatorships.
The trickiest demand by the world's poorest countries is for the seven richest to respect a longstanding pledge to give the very poorest countries aid equivalent to 15-hundredths of a percent of their own wealth each year and to reach this target by 1995.
Most summit participants - Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Canada -are sympathetic since they have either reached this target or are close to it.
But the United States, which opposes aid targets, directs only four-hundredths of a percent of its gross national product to the poorest countries; Japan gives them about the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (93%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (77%); ITALY (70%); BELGIUM (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); TRENDS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



70 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: A Better Idea on Tax Credits

 BODY:
Both the House and Senate have approved expansions of a wonderful but little-known anti-poverty weapon called the earned income tax credit. This income supplement helps working parents with low wages by reducing their income taxes or, if they owe no tax, by paying them cash.
The program now totals about $6 billion yearly. The Senate would raise the earned income tax credit, or E.I.T.C., only for families with children under age 4, at a cost of $3 billion, and spend an additional $7.5 billion on other tax subsidies - all over five years. The House version would adjust for family size, increase credits for families with children under age 6, and would cost $18.5 billion over five years above present expenditures. 
The E.I.T.C. is the best means available to the nation for lifting the working poor out of poverty. The House bill recognizes this more profoundly and generously than the Senate's, and should prevail.
The earned income tax credit is paid only to poor parents who work, thereby discouraging welfare. A full-time worker would need to earn about $6.50 an hour to lift a family out of poverty. In 1991 the minimum wage will rise to $4.25 an hour, leaving a gap of $2.25 for the E.I.T.C. to fill.
The current E.I.T.C. is worth at most 50 cents an hour. The House bill would roughly double that amount, still leaving a typical family well short of the poverty threshold.
If Congress tripled the E.I.T.C., a minimum wage worker would earn about $5.75 an hour. In combination with day care, medical and other Federal subsidies, that would be enough to push many single-earner families out of poverty.
Expanding the E.I.T.C. much further becomes prohibitively expensive, according to David Ellwood of Harvard University. The problem is phasing it out once the family's income rises above poverty. If Congress tries to control costs by phasing it out quickly, it would discourage families from working longer or for higher wages.
The upshot is that the E.I.T.C. by itself cannot end poverty among working families. But it can be tripled, which would be well beyond what the House, let alone the Senate, has so far proposed.
The Senate bill spends too little money on the E.I.T.C. in part because it spends too much on other, less effective tax credits. It would create a refundable tax credit to offset the cost of medical insurance for the working poor. The goal is admirable, but the plan is flawed. This credit would encourage employers to shift more of their health care expenses onto their low-paid workers. The money is better spent on the E.I.T.C.
Another provision in the Senate bill would make partially refundable the existing dependent care tax credit. Thus poor families that owe no tax would receive a cash payment to offset part of their day care expenses. This is a good idea. Yet most poor families would be better off if the money were spent instead on a higher E.I.T.C. For one thing, its benefits are protected against inflation while the dependent care credit is not.
Even with a substantial E.I.T.C., poverty would remain sickeningly prevalent. Nearly three-fourths of poverty-level families with children have no parent working full time. These families are beyond the E.I.T.C.'s reach. And there are other problems. Almost 40 percent of E.I.T.C. payments were sent to ineligible families; and an unknown percent of eligible families don't even know how to apply.
None of these problems are insurmountable. The E.I.T.C. is already a good program. The House bill would make it a whole lot better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX CREDITS; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); EDITORIALS INCOME TAX (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); 



71 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
Rich Argentines Confront Capitalism

BYLINE: By DAVID C. UNGER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES

 BODY:
There's no visible privation in the Barrio Norte, Buenos Aires's 300- square-block district of European elegance and conspicuous consumption. But there's plenty of anxious discussion about President Carlos Menem's tough economic policies.
His Government has pledged to sell off state enterprises, squeeze public employment, deny aid to failing private companies, raise prices for basic services and balance the budget. Some of these policies at last seem set to take hold. 
Rich and influential Argentines, the beneficiaries of 60 years of governmental largesse, feel as threatened by such measures as their poorer cousins do, but for different reasons. Ordinary people worry about day-to-day economic survival. The affluent risk losing a life style that most upper middle class New Yorkers would envy -country estates, foreign vacations, first-class restaurants. Less than 1 Argentine in 100 lives so well, but that still amounts to well over 100,000 people, most with residences in the Barrio Norte.
Argentina has many businessmen, but few entrepreneurs. The plain-spoken owner of a large cattle ranch expressed a typical attitude: ''The private businessman can't be expected to know what to do without the Government telling him what it wants, and then helping him do it.'' But in sophisticated urban circles, people recognize that such paternalism, having bankrupted a thriving state, cannot continue. Of course, every businessman would much rather be the last beneficiary of a bailout than the first example of a free-market bankruptcy.
The biggest question now is whether President Menem will be tough enough to resist the special pleas of failing businesses.
He needn't worry much about resistance from the political opposition, but he gets plenty of pressure from within his own Peronist Party, traditional protector of the special interests.
His political style is less than reassuring. While his predecessor, Raul Alfonsin, was given to clear, sometimes blunt declarations of principle, Mr. Menem prefers to bargain, and sometimes to procrastinate. But such blurring of potential conflict may be just what Argentina needs at this difficult moment in its evolution toward democratic stability.
And Mr. Menem has managed to persuade some highly credible independent figures to join his team. These include two first-rate non-Peronist economists, Javier Gonzalez Fraga, who now heads the Central Bank, and Domingo Cavallo, the Foreign Minister.
Mr. Menem has also favorably impressed the Bush Administration and won its strong support. Mr. Bush is scheduled to visit Buenos Aires in September, the first U.S. President to go there since Eisenhower. Argentines expect much concrete U.S. help. Relations between Buenos Aires and Washington are better than they've been for a very long time and U.S. advice is eagerly sought on issues from economic strategies to the latest computer techniques for combating white-collar crime.
It's still far from clear whether Mr. Menem will persevere with his economic plans, and beyond that, whether they will succeed. But for a change, there's some basis for optimism. Mr. Bush is right to encourage it.
DAVID C. UNGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); PERONIST PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (72%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: UNGER, DAVID C; MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (86%); 



72 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Who Won Cold War? Japanese and Germans.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A. M. Rosenthal is unhappy about Mikhail S. Gorbachev's suggestion that we not argue over whether the United States or the Soviet Union won the cold war (column, June 10). The real point, however, is that both lost. Both countries produced a military-industrial complex that pre-empted capital and technical and scientific talent and made respectable, in the name of patriotism when all else failed, a degree of waste and incompetence tinged with corruption that sapped the economic vitals of their societies. It proved contagious.
The main cause of the Soviet industrial crisis is that nearly all their goods come out of such a production system. Their television sets cost 700 rubles (about 3.5 times the monthly wage of a worker), but they are similar to the $640 toilet seats and $6,000 coffee makers of our military sector.
The difference is that we have imported what we needed to the tune of a cumulative goods deficit of more than $900 billion in the last seven years, for which we pay by foreign debt and selling assets. Now that we have run down our food reserves (our main exports), one wonders how much longer we can go on like that.
The victors, as far as economic big-power status defines victory, are West Germany and Japan. They won the cold war, simply by not wasting the resources of creative, industrious societies on the treadmills of the arms race and occasional ''small'' wars.
 
JOHN E. ULLMANN
Hempstead, L.I., June 10, 1990
 The writer is a professor of management at Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COLD WAR (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ARMS RACE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (59%); 



73 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: The Lip-Reading Slogan Aside, Mr. Bush Deserves Some Applause

BYLINE: By Walter F. Mondale; Walter F. Mondale, the former Vice President, was Democratic Presidential candidate in 1984.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
As the individual who is sometimes credited with making the biggest political mistake of the 1980's by saying -on no less an occasion than my acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention -that I would raise taxes, I take a special interest in how our President and members of Congress now struggle with the issue of taxes and the Federal deficit.
We have gone through a decade of dissembling about the fiscal condition of our nation. In 1980, the total Federal debt was $914 billion. Now, it is $3 trillion and rising. Our annual net interest payments on the Federal debt were $52 billion in 1980. They are now nearing $200 billion, accounting for 15 percent of the annual budget. 
The budget deficit for the 1991 fiscal year - including the annual cost of bailing out the savings and loan institutions - is projected to surpass $200 billion.
President Bush now confronts the undeniable reality that spending cuts alone cannot meet the requirements of the Gramm-Rudman law, which limits the 1991 deficit to $64 billion.
When in 1988 George Bush, the candidate, said, ''Read my lips: no new taxes,'' he was not quite leveling with the public. But now George Bush, the President, has begun to learn the difference between campaigning and governing.
We should give the President credit for his statement last Tuesday about the need for ''tax revenue increases.'' He had the courage to change his mind, to acknowledge the truth about our nation's troubled finances, to ''think anew,'' as he admitted at his press conference on Friday. He is being honest about what is required to get our deficit under control.
The President should also be given credit for resisting the tremendous pressure from many of his Republican colleagues to sacrifice our nation's fiscal responsibility to a short-sighted campaign slogan. Mr. Bush may now show the Presidential leadership needed to launch a bipartisan attack on the deficit.
There is also a matter of basic public trust at stake. The public is fed up with the hypocrisies and tricks of modern political campaigns. A recent poll found that 40 percent of Americans say they didn't think President Bush ever meant it when he made his promise of no new taxes.
For the last 10 years, we've had a fiscal politics of evasion. Nobody -Democrat or Republican - has wanted to deal with these issues. The Republicans haven't wanted to give up a good campaign slogan. The Democrats have been terrorized by my landslide defeat in 1984. Ever since, there has been a bipartisan evasion of the deficit issue, because it requires facing up to taxes.
Nobody wants to accept paternity for a tax increase. But it is the future of our country - our future generations - that is harmed by the failure to deal with these problems.
Our politics have entered a new era, the age of the marketeer. Just as bad money drives good from circulation, marketing strategies are driving honesty and substance from politics. The marketing experts have our leaders practicing the politics of irrelevance and avoidance.
On our country's important education issues, candidates now seek advice from pollsters, not from educators. On our tough environmental issues, they go to media managers, not scientists. In dealing with the Federal deficit, they depend on political consultants, not on economists.
On the advice of the marketeers, our leaders are blowing in the wind of momentary public opinion. They inspect their polling and focus group data to decide what issues they'll talk about and what ''spin'' they'll put on them. So we get ''perception management'' from candidates rather than honest debate and bold ideas.
Our leaders conclude that if they talk at any length or in any detail about important issues, they're in trouble. In the 1984 campaign, for example, I tried to talk honestly about reducing the deficit. My opponent, who read the polls, declared that the deficit would disappear by reducing taxes. His dangerous policies resulted in our nation living on borrowed money we cannot afford. Now, our Federal deficit is a disgrace.
We might learn something important from the new and inspiring leaders in Eastern Europe - people like Vaclav Havel, Adam Michnik and Bronislaw Geremek. They speak about the vital importance of ''living in truth.'' The totalitarian system taught them in brutally clear terms about the corrupting and demoralizing effects of a government that refuses to tell the truth. Hoping the instinct for truth was not extinguished by Communism, these leaders now struggle to restore the people's trust in their government and society.
May this hard-won lesson from Eastern Europe be an inspiration for our own challenges here in the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); SAVINGS & LOANS (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MONDALE, WALTER F GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



74 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Get Gorbachev Moving

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
The weather is pleasant and things look the same. There's no highly charged sense that once again, as John Reed wrote about Petrograd in 1917, these are days that will shake the world. Mikhail Gorbachev is doing his best to keep his comrades from rocking the boat, trying to keep the Communist Party and the country together.
But these are days that are moving the world, days of profound confusion. The one thing sure is that things won't be the same again even if there isn't a sudden divide to mark the new from the old, even if nothing dramatic happens, because standing still isn't possible any longer. 
When he launched reforms at the 27th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party four years ago, Mr. Gorbachev said technology was the key. His country had stagnated for lack of technology, he announced, and now he was going to stir it up and get it moving into modern times.
All the evidence indicates he had no idea of how much further and deeper he would have to go, and that even so it wouldn't be enough to take decisions. Getting rid of the ''command system'' requires something else to organize people if they are to produce, and the something else, the mysterious market and the consensual base of democracy, don't create themselves overnight.
Now Mr. Gorbachev is leading his party at its 28th Congress. He had himself made President of the country and is in the process of transferring power from the closed, rigid party system to the Government.
The party may or may not split here, or change its name, or plod on losing the disgusted young and the talented. This Congress is the last of the old type, nonetheless, and he is trying to acknowledge that without upsetting the die-hards. He wants the center, but it's crumbling.
When he was in Washington last month, I asked one of his advisers which way Mr. Gorbachev would go if the party broke into two or more. The answer was that it depended who provoked the split. If the ''radicals,'' which in current Moscow jargon means the impatient reformers, walk out, he would stay with the remainder to coalesce a center-right. If the ''conservatives'' make the challenge, meaning old-liners who say the real trouble is only lack of discipline, he would stay to form a center-left. Obviously, he prefers avoiding the choice.
That means avoiding other choices. The talk is about ''the meaning of socialism'' and ''the role of the party,'' and words serve to postpone admitting that much has to be dumped. But there is no more reason to think buying time will make things easier.
Living conditions are still getting worse. Even polls reflect the huge pessimism. There is still fear, but a different kind. People are not afraid to speak up, and they say anything. But they are afraid of what's ahead, no longer convinced that change means improvement after awhile.
That loss of momentum is costly. Now, Chancellor Kohl of West Germany wants the West to provide a vast cushion of credits to keep Mr. Gorbachev afloat on his current ambiguous course. It makes sense that Mr. Kohl offered some $3 billion from Bonn alone for short-term needs.
The unity of Germany and its coming absorption by NATO has left the Soviets gasping for time to digest the difficult but unavoidable shock. In this case, Bonn wouldn't be buying time, which just isn't available. The Soviets would be selling it, and the money helps ease the inevitable.
The big package, $15 billion to $20 billion from Europe, the U.S. and Japan, is something else. The Russians deny they asked for it, though Mr. Kohl says he knows they want it. It's supposed to be divided between short-term, to pay pressing bills, and long-term, to support real economic overhaul, but the proportions haven't been specified.
More important, neither have the plans. President Francois Mitterrand of France seems to be giving Mr. Kohl enthusiastic support to make up for his initially sour line on Germany, closing the diplomatic gap. But his argument that the money will assure the reforms isn't a good one.
There is certainly a psychological need for the Soviet people to feel they are on the right road and that the West is prepared to be generous - if they keep going, not if they stall.
President Bush will be taking this up at the Houston summit meeting. He should stick with the old principle that time is money, and wasting it is no gain. Then Mr. Gorbachev would have another good reason to shove the hangers-on who want to stand still, damn the remaining Stalinist torpedoes and order full speed ahead for his bewildered people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS OF THE SOVIET COMMUNIST PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRENDS (68%); CONSERVATISM (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; LEWIS, FLORA JACK REED (73%); 



75 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: At BAM Opera, Confidence Amid the Crises

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
The Brooklyn Academy of Music ended its second opera season on an upbeat note the other day with the final performance of Mark Morris's admired dance version of Purcell's ''Dido and Aeneas.''
While all might have seemed business as usual, however, it was hardly that. The academy's operatic initiative has weathered a number of crises that might have scuttled it.
Now, the impact of the Northeast's economic slowdown on fund raising, and possibly the lack of operatic expertise on the academy's staff, seem to have dampened hope for new opera productions initiated by the academy itself. But Harvey Lichtenstein, the academy's president and executive producer, is still moving confidently ahead, with a variety of imports planned for the next several seasons. 
BAM Opera was intended to offer interesting operas or innovative productions as a full-scale, highly professional alternative to the city's two big companies, the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera.
The venture got under way with a flash in the spring of 1989. There was Verdi's ''Falstaff'' from Peter Stein, the West Berlin director, and the Welch National Opera. Peter Sellars, the best-known American avant-garde opera director, recycled his combination of Bach contata arias and Kurt Weill's ''Mahagonny Songbook.'' And William Christie, the American early music specialist, brought in his Paris Opera production of Lully's ''Atys.''
 
Unraveling Plans
Prospects looked bright. Matthew Epstein was artistic director of the project, and he seemed to offer a rare blend of operatic expertise and interest in operatic innovation. There was much talk of home-grown productions for the future. And a partnership was announced with the Metropolitan to produce two seasons of exotic repertory in productions at the academy conducted by James Levine and directed by Mr. Sellars.
But most of that brave planning has seemed to unravel. The season did open as scheduled with a theatrically ambitious production of Mozart's ''Finta Giardiniera'' by the Theatre Royale de la Monnaie of Brussels. But Mr. Epstein resigned, unhappy over budgetary constraints and what he called administrative amateurishness by the academy's staff.
Then the Met deal collapsed when the Met thought anew about its $1.5 million fund-raising goal for the collaboration, the constraints on its own independence and perhaps in some quarters the genuinely radical nature of the project. Mr. Sellars' planned production of Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' from Chicago fell through for budgetary and casting reasons. Teresa Stratas indefinitely postponed a Weill evening, saying she hadn't had time to master the music.
Even ''Dido and Aeneas,'' for all its critical acclaim, was more dance than opera, with Mr. Morris and his Brussels company miming the action with Nicholas McGegan, the Philharmonia Baroque Orchestra and the singers in the pit.
 
On Its Own Without the Met
In the middle of this operatic ''Gotterdammerung'' sits Mr. Lichtenstein. But unlike the weary god Wotan, he sounds remarkably sanguine about the future of BAM Opera.
''We have regrouped,'' Mr. Lichtenstein said the other day from his Brooklyn office. ''Our basic premises remain the same. We're committed to the project and we think we can bring it off handsomely without the Met. And I'm happy to say we've held onto almost all of the grants we raised jointly with the Met.''
Mr. Lichtenstein's plans for his third opera season, in 1991, seem intended in part to prove that he can accomplish by himself almost exactly what he was to do with the Met.
Those plans had originally included the American premiere in May, 1991, of the new Sellars/John Adams opera, ''The Death of Klinghoffer,'' about the terrorist attack on the liner Achille Lauro and the murder of one of its passengers. That premiere is still to take place at the academy, except now Kent Nagano, who will lead the world premiere in Brussels in March, will conduct the Brooklyn Philharmonic instead of Mr. Levine leading the Met orchestra.
Another Met/Brooklyn production was to have been Gluck's ''Orfeo ed Euridice'' directed by Mr. Sellars. Mr. Lichtenstein said he was close to concluding a deal to import a notable staging of that same opera in February by Harry Kupfer, director of the Bayreuth Festival's current ''Ring,'' and his Komische Oper of East Berlin, with the countertenor Jochen Kowalski as Orfeo.
The third 1991 production will probably be ''The Black Rider,'' a dark comedy by Robert Wilson, the theater artist; Tom Waits, the rock composer, and William S. Burroughs, the novelist. ''The Black Rider'' was first staged this spring by the Thalia Theater in Hamburg, West Germany.
An alternative or additional possibility for 1991 is a version of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' by the Folksoperin of Stockholm, which Mr. Lichtenstein says is theatrically original and which Mr. Epstein opposed as musically inadequate.
 
New Version of Rameau Work
For 1991 or 1992, Mr. Lichtenstein would like to bring in a new William Christie production, staged by Alfredo Arias, of Rameau's lavish opera-ballet, ''Les Indes Galantes,'' scheduled for its first performances this month at the Aix-en-Provence Festival in France.
Other plans, or hopes, include a Wilson staging of Wagner's ''Parsifal,'' which will be first seen in Hamburg next season and which is already set for Houston in 1992. That would be for the spring of 1992 or 1993 in Brooklyn, with a hybrid Hamburg-Houston cast and Dennis Russell Davies conducting the Brooklyn Philharmonic.
Projects under consideration also include a reworking of a Colin Graham production of Berlioz's ''Beatrice et Benedict,'' seen originally in St. Louis; a Peter Stein/Pierre Boulez production of Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande,'' scheduled for the Welch National Opera; a possible Beethoven ''Fidelio'' co-production with Bonn, where Mr. Davies is the city's music director, staged by Mr. Sellars; the Chicago Lyric Opera production of William Bolcom's forthcoming opera, ''McTeague,'' staged by Robert Altman, the film director, and conducted by Mr. Davies, and a zarzuela, or Spanish operetta, that Peter Brook is planning for Spain and Paris in 1992.
 
Budget Gap of $700,000
Mr. Lichtenstein's budget for a three-opera season is $2.3 million, with $600,000 already in hand and an expected box office of $1 million. He says he should be able to close the remaining $700,000 gap without too much trouble.
The main loss for the future would seem to be much hope for new opera productions conceived in Brooklyn. That is partly a matter of economics. But Mr. Epstein, when he resigned, protested strongly that the academy's staff was insufficiently professional in operatic matters to undertake such ambitious ventures.
Although Mr. Lichtenstein is aware of economic realities, he defends his staff's administrative and fund-raising abilities. He also argues that he will still be able to fulfill his mandate through imaginative imports.
''I have no pride of authorship, in terms of doing something first,'' he said. ''The important thing is for significant work to be seen in New York.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stefan Kurt, left, and Dominique Horwitz in ''The Black Rider'' at the Thalia Theater in Hamburg, West Germany. The production is scheduled to arrive next June at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (Thalia Theater)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); BELGIUM (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN ACADEMY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

SUBJECT: OPERA; FORECASTS; FINANCES OPERA (94%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); BUDGETS (89%); THEATER (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN MARK MORRIS (74%); PETER SELLARS (55%); WILLIAM LINCOLN CHRISTIE (54%); 



76 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

 
Companies
Forstmann Little agreed to buy General Instrument, a leading supplier to the cable TV industry, for $44.50 a share, or $1.6 billion. The buyout is Forstmann Little's second this year, after nearly two years in which it did not complete a single deal. [Page D1.] 
Ralph Ingersoll left the newspaper business in the U.S. for Europe. He acquired newspapers aggressively in this country over the past decade but has been under mounting financial pressure. [D1.]
Philips will take a $1.44 billion charge against earnings and eliminate about 10,000 jobs in Europe as part of an effort to revive its loss-ridden computer and electronic-components divisions. [D1.]
Lotus sued two California software companies, Borland International and the Santa Cruz Operation, accusing them of copyright infringement. [D1.]
Ratners Group will acquire Kay Jewelers for about $410 million in stock, it announced in London. [D4.]
Southland filed with the S.E.C. to revise the terms of its exchange offer to restructure its outstanding public debt. [D13.]
A New York developer may be in trouble, and Trump's not the name. Larry Silverstein reportedly intends to give up some of his interest in 7 World Trade Center and in his A.&S. Plaza. [D15.]
A slowdown has gripped Southern California as its aerospace industry tries to adjust to a less militaristic world. [A1.]
Santa Fe Pacific handed layoff notices to 300 Santa Fe Railway employees and said more cuts were coming by 1992. [D4.]
 
The Economy
The Government will hold an international auction in late September, via satellite, for properties worth more than $1 million each that were acquired from insolvent savings and loans, Administration officials said. [D5.]
The nation's economy continued to expand in June for the third straight month, according to a report by the National Association of Purchasing Management. [D5.]
The construction industry remained in a slump in May as spending dropped 0.4 percent for its second straight monthly decline, the Government said. [D5.]
 
International
East Germans took their new West German marks for a trial spin, poring through stores newly stocked with Western goods, but for now they appeared to be mostly just looking. [A1.] At a state-owned menswear company in East Berlin, a 20-year-old seamstress was worried whether she would have a job in a few weeks. [A12.]
 
Markets
Stocks perked up in the last half-hour, with most of the gain coming from computerized program buying. The Dow climbed 18.57, to 2,899.26. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities were little changed and interest rates were basically flat in light trading. [D13.]
The mark rose on the first day of trading after the monetary union in Germany. Demand for the pound remained strong. [D14.]
Soybean and pork futures scored sharp price gains amid speculation that hot weather would scorch the bean crop and slow the movement of hogs to market. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Most Americans would gladly exchange their health-care system for one like Canada's, which is entirely financed by the Government. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
The last three months provided the holders of international government bonds with the best performance since 1987. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
Bonneville Communications has made its mark by spreading the word of God. Now it wants to sell secular products. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SIG (NYSE) (56%); SIG (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); SIGNET JEWELERS LTD (56%); SCO GROUP INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ELECTRONICS (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); FUTURES (73%); EURO (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); AUCTIONS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); GERMAN MARK (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (54%); COPYRIGHT (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (54%); BANK FAILURES (50%); MEN'S CLOTHING (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: RALPH MCALLISTER INGERSOLL II (58%); 



77 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Group Tries to Think Like the Fed

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio, July 2

 BODY:
As the Federal Reserve's top policy makers met today in Washington, 31 business people and economic analysts convened at the grand old Toledo Club to imitate - and thereby fathom immediately - the thinking of the people who determine the nation's interest rates and availability of money.
This is the Parallel Fed, a five-year-old exercise in experimental economics that focuses on monetary policy. This day the Toledo group concludes that the Federal Reserve's powerful policy group, the Open Market Committee, is likely to tilt toward an easing of policy. If so, it would be the Fed's first move to actively lower rates since just before Christmas. 
 
'Prepared to Follow'
The official Fed, its emulators declared in a statement, will ''maintain the current degree of restraint on bank reserves, but lean toward greater ease if further signs of economic weakness begin to appear.'' The Fed will ''be prepared to follow market interest rates down with the Federal funds rate if market rates continue this trend,'' the statement added.
The Federal funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is the principal benchmark for short-term interest rates in general. The Fed can strongly influence the funds rate by increasing or decreasing the amount of money that banks have available to lend above their required reserves.
Both groups meet on the same day eight times a year - the official Fed session this time continues into a second day on Tuesday - but the Open Market Committee's decisions are not scheduled to be disclosed until late August.
The Parallel Fed's record appears to be enviable. It correctly predicted in December, for example, that the Fed had decided to relax monetary policy, though it did not come quite as soon as the Toledo group expected.
This means that when William J. Hudson, a business consultant in suburban Maumee, Ohio, and his Parallel Fed group have done a good job of putting themselves in the shoes of the 19 men and women meeting on Constitution Avenue, they and their customers gain a decided edge in business and in financial markets.
What sets the Parallel Fed apart from the vast army of Fed watchers is its rigorous effort to simulate the actual meetings of the Open Market Committee. That includes not only meeting on the same day but also trying for a similar diversity of viewpoints and generating what is hoped to be similar group dynamics, or what Mr. Hudson calls ''hubbub.'' Mr. Hudson runs the group with partners John F. Minor and Jonathan Harsch.
Unlike the Shadow Open Market Committee, a long-established group, the Parallel Fed shuns prescriptions of what the Open Market Committee should do and concentrates entirely on divining what it will do. The shadow committee has a strong academic representation and is oriented toward a monetarist ideology, which says the amount of readily available cash mainly determines economic activity.
Mr. Hudson, a 6-foot 10-inch agricultural specialist and economist, started the Parallel Fed in 1985 while working for the Andersons Investment Services Corporation, a privately held Ohio company involved in grain and other businesses.
 
Wanted to 'Empathize'
''I wondered if I could combine economic fundamentals with a reading of the so-called pulse in some kind of live setting which would parallel the Fed and which would give participants both a learning experience and a leg up on their own business competitors,'' Mr. Hudson said. He added that he wanted to ''empathize with the charter and roles of appointed officials, as opposed to criticizing them from a remote and comfortable distance.''
Mr. Hudson acts as chairman for the meetings but he does not imagine himself to be Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, nor do any other Parallel Fed members play the roles of individual Fed governors and regional bank presidents that sit on the Open Market Committee.
''That would make the thing too complex,'' said Mr. Minor, who acts as vice chairman and whose economic analysis seeks to replicate that of the Fed's large and perhaps unparalleled research staff. Attempts at psycho-economics would only ''get you off track,'' he contended.
Still, group members say they learned some lessons. One is that the real Fed thinks more like bankers than like business executives and seems to have delayed its December 1989 easing by a few weeks to help the banking system shore up its profits before having to cut interest rates.
Another is that Mr. Greenspan is not so quick as Paul A. Volcker, his predecessor, to shift policy. The Parallel Fed has also learned not to rely too much on the latest economic figures because they are so frequently revised.
At today's session, which ran slightly longer than the usual one and a half hours, were people from Marathon Oil, Toledo Stamping, Chrysler, Owens Corning Fiberglas and the brokerage house of Prescott, Ball & Turben. They offered the perspective of their various industries as well as anecdotal nuggets like a report of a conversation with a salesman of corrugated cartons who said orders were sagging and he was under strong pressure ''to try to drum up new business.''
 
Seen as a Harbinger
That statement was regarded as a harbinger of general economic conditions because so many goods are shipped in cardboard cartons.
But with no part of the economy really vigorous and some, like consumer spending and construction, in decline, there was little doubt among Parallel Fed participants today that their Washington counterparts would decide that an easing of monetary policy was in sight.
But they do not think such a move is imminent and President Bush's indication last week that he would accept higher taxes was not thought likely to have impressed the makers of monetary policy in Washington.
While the Fed's tools are strong, they are relatively few and Mr. Greenspan seems to have a strong reluctance to move before absolutely necessary. ''They're probably going to be very cautious about easing now because when they do it,'' said Mr. Minor, ''they'll find themselves out of ammunition.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Parallel Fed met in Toledo, Ohio, yesterday about the same time the Federal Reserve's top policy makers were meeting in Washington. The Toledo group seeks to fathom the thinking of the people who determine U.S. interest rates and the availability of money. (Blake J. Discher for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; PARALLEL FED (ORGN); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); CHRISTMAS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR WILLIAM J HUDSON (76%); 



78 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2374 words

HEADLINE: The Savings Debacle: How Safeguards Failed;
A Blend of Tragedy and Farce

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2

 BODY:
Behind the collapse of the nation's savings and loan industry is the story of how the public and private safeguards intended to insure the financial health and integrity of the savings system failed.
The professionals - accountants, appraisers, auditors, directors and Government examiners - manning the chain of accountability in the savings industry were overwhelmed by the sweeping deregulation of the 1980's and the changes it brought. Some were confused by the new rules, others were lulled into complacency by Federal insurance on deposits, and some were willing to approve questionable practices as long as they were paid handsomely.
American Savings and Loan of Stockton, Calif., was a case in point. According to Philip W. Maher, an appraiser at the California institution, the practices there during the mid-1980's at times seemed like scenes from a Peter Sellers comedy. 
For example, when its management guaranteed they had ''looked at'' the appraisals on loans, they meant they had seen the book shelves that held thousands of bound documents, not the actual appraisals, many of which were false or inflated, Mr. Maher said in a sworn court declaration. He had raised questions about the practices.
The cost of the slipshod and suspect work at American Savings has since become painfully apparent. In 1988, it was declared insolvent, the largest savings institution in the country to fail, and is expected to cost the Federal Government billions of dollars.
The breakdown of the industry's controls is a key reason why the savings crisis grew unchecked for years and why the bailout has become so expensive, costing the nation's taxpayers as much as $500 billion over the next three decades. The generous Federal insurance on savings deposits and Federal guarantees on mortgage-backed securities mean that the industry's troubles became the Government's problem.
Professionals stood at each checkpoint in the savings system, supposedly responsible for giving independent and expert advice. For example, appraisers were to provide unbiased estimates of property values; outside accountants were to scrutinize the financial statements of savings institutions; in-house auditors were to oversee a system of internal controls; state and Federal examiners were to evaluate a savings unit's safety and soundness. And outside directors' were to oversee, independently, an institution's managers.
Yet at the savings and loans that collapsed, experts increasingly see a common pattern.
''The breakdown of safeguards was pretty much across the board of those thrifts that were in trouble,'' said Fred E. Case, who retired recently from the graduate business school of the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was a professor of real estate.
William J. Crawford, who until recently was California's chief savings and loan regulator, traced the breakdown in standards in the industry to an uncritical acceptance - so much in fashion at the time - that regulation meant inefficiency and that free-market policies would work to everyone's benefit.
 
'Wasn't a Free Market'
''They all got caught up in this thing of the free market, but it wasn't a free market,'' Mr. Crawford said in an interview. ''The Government was insuring the deposits. It wasn't entrepreneurialism, it was high fliers operating with the public's money. There was no diligence.''
And sharp scrutiny seemed less pressing because the economy was booming. ''Nobody paid much attention, there was euphoria in the markets, everybody made a ton of money,'' said Frederick W. Wolf, the former assistant comptroller general of the General Accounting Office, who is now a partner at the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse.
 
The Decontrol
Broad Safeguards Were Abandoned
The deregulation of the savings industry allowed fundamental changes in the ownership and investment policies of these traditionally conservative institutions that help explain the industry's collapse. In essence, decades-old structural safeguards were abandoned in the rush to a free-market philosophy.
Until the 1980's liberalization, a savings and loan was required to have at least 400 shareholders, a rule intended to limit the influence of developers, who saw the institutions as ''milk cows,'' as Dr. Case put it. The directors of an institution, in theory, acted as a further check.
But in 1981, on the theory that banks enjoyed a similiar status, , the Federal Home Loan Bank Board permitted savings and loans to be owned by only one shareholder. The year after that the board provided further incentives for developers when it allowed owners to invest less of their own money and use real estate rather than cash as the basis for their investment.
By 1982, every dollar of capital -the real estate or cash contributions made by owners - was a license to raise $33 in federally insured deposits. Previously, Congress had raised the level of insured deposits to $100,000 from $40,000.
 
Mortgages Sold
The new, liberalized rules also made possible increasingly sophisticated and risky investments. In the mortgage-backed securities market, fueled by the expansion of other Federal guarantees, savings and loans sold off mortgages to Wall Street firms, freeing funds for more ambitious investments. The investment banks pooled the home mortgages and sold them as securities to investors, part of the 1980's trend of ''securitization.''
But as savings institutions increasingly pulled back from their traditional business of making long-term loans to home buyers, the links between borrowers and lenders were eroded. The dictum of ''know your borrower got lost,'' Mr. Crawford said.
The broad regulatory changes led to a subtle shift in the balance of power. For example, savings and loan directors, even those inclined to be independent-minded, did not understand the sophisticated new financial transactions well enough to question the wisdom of the more aggressive investment practices. So more power accrued to managers, many of whom had ties to developers or securities firms.
''If directors don't know about complicated instruments, they have to rely on financial data and reports from internal auditors and accountants,'' Mr. Crawford said.
''One of the best thrift safeguards is to have the internal auditor report to the board, but I found this lacking at most associations,'' said Dr. Case, who is co-author of a 1988 book, ''Where Deregulation Went Wrong,'' for the United States League of Savings Institutions.
 
The Breakdown
Auditors Cleared Ailing Institutions
The principal tool in determining whether a company is solvent or in trouble is the financial report, which must be scrutinized and approved by independent accountants. As the savings and loan crisis grew, all too frequently reports on ailing institutions failed to accurately portray their financial condition.
Last year the General Accounting Office, an arm of Congress, found that outside audits of 11 Texas savings institutions had reported a cumulative net worth of $44 million even though the savings and loans, at the time they were seized by the Government, had a total negative net worth of $1.5 billion.
In California, Mr. Crawford found a similiar situation; 29 of 31 insolvent savings and loans had clean audits before they were taken over by the Government.
The G.A.O. found the auditing problems significant enough to refer six unnamed firms to professional and regulatory agencies for possible disciplinary review. In addition, Federal regulators have sued a dozen accounting firms for savings auditing failures, including Coopers & Lybrand, Grant Thornton, Ernst & Young (the firm created by the merger of Arthur Young & Company with Ernst & Whinney), and Deloitte Touche (created by the merger of Deloitte Haskins & Sells and Touche Ross).
 
Some Cheerleaders
To be sure, some accounting firms steered clear of the savings and loan industry. Others raised so many questions that they lost clients. But in a echo of changes taking place in the industry, a significant number, Mr. Crawford said, became cheerleaders in their pursuit of clients.
''When I came into the business in 1974, the hero or king was the smartest, the most independent person, the one who could say no,'' said Thomas R. Bloom, the bank board's chief accountant in 1987 and 1988. Mr. Bloom, now a partner with Kenneth Leventhal & Company, added that ''by 1984 the salesman became the hero of the profession.''
Faulty appraisals also figured prominently in the savings crisis.
In December 1985, the House consumer and monetary affairs subcommittee found that virtually every failed savings and loan used appraisals to overvalue collateral and make bad real estate loans look secure. A report of the committee in 1986 found significant appraisal deficiencies in 800 out of 3,200 federally insured savings institutions.
''Faulty and fraudulent real estate appraisals,'' the report concluded, had ''contributed directly to the insolvency of hundreds of the nation's financial institutions and have helped cause billions of dollars of losses.''
 
The New Rules
Equity Created 'Out of Thin Air'
Many experts say that the real fault in savings and loan accounting lay not with the auditors but in the Federal accounting rules under which the industry operated.
In the early 1980's, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Congress put into place a set of rules one Congressional committee found to be so permissive that it called them ''accounting gimmicks.'' Mr. Bloom, the former bank board accountant, said they ''masked the troubles in the industry.''
''They created equity out of thin air, with incredible rationalizations,'' said Donald J. Kirk, a professor of accounting at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business who was head of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, a private rule-making group, in the early 1980's.
One bank board rule, called loan loss deferral, allowed savings institutions to sell losing loans to Wall Street firms and write off the loss over the life of the loan rather than against that year's profits. This rule served to hide the growing financial problems of the industry and, according to Martin Mayer, a financial writer who is working on a book on the savings crisis, ''made the collapse of the industry inevitable.''
 
'We Need an Understanding'
When Federal regulators visited the accounting standards board to explain some of the Government's accounting changes, they were accompanied by a representative of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, another private group that provides guidance to the profession. Mr. Kirk remembers their joint message: ''The industry is in trouble, we need an understanding of the predicament.''
Mr. Kirk says that the incident showed that the accountants' institute was too sympathetic to the industry, which was a big client for many accounting firms.
The standards board opposed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's accounting changes. The president of the accountants' institute told Congress last year that the profession had also raised some objections to the loan loss rule and other bank board changes.
Mr. Bloom is among those who question whether the institute has taken adequate disciplinary action against large accounting firms involved in questionable savings and loan audits. A spokesman for the institute said the case of the six accounting firms that the G.A.O. referred sixteen months ago for possible disciplinary action was still under review. Four of the cases have been deferred because of suits by the Government, he added.
One of those cases, said an accountant who asked not to be identified, involves the audit of the Western Savings Association in Dallas by Arthur Young, the firm that is now part of Ernst & Young. Last March, Federal regulators sued Ernst & Young for $560 million for failing to detect and report huge losses at the association, which was seized in 1986. The suit contends that the firm gave Western a clean bill of health in 1984 and 1985 when it had a negative net worth of $100 million and $200 million, respectively, in those two years.
Commenting on the suit, an Ernst & Young spokesman blamed regulators, for putting ''boxcar-sized numbers in the lawsuit to deflect the focus to the accounting profession of their own failure to regulate.''.
 
The Cutbacks
Rise in Examiners Was Rejected
While they do not exculpate the accounting firms, many experts note that the supervisory and examination staff of the bank board failed to keep up with either the complexity of the industry or the growth in the Government's deposit insurance liability.
In his book on the savings and loan scandal, ''The S&L Insurance Mess,'', published last year, Edward J. Kane, Reese Professor of Banking and Monetary Economics at Ohio State University, emphasized that in 1983 and 1984, precisely the years in which associations began taking riskier investments with insured deposits, the number of Federal Home Loan Bank Board examiners began to shrink. Between 1984 and 1986, Mr. Kane wrote, hundreds of savings institutions were not examined. Edwin J. Gray, the former chairman of the bank board, said in an interview that in 1984 he sought to increase the number of examiners but was told by White House budget officials that a rise was contrary to the Administration's deregulatory philosophy, even though the salaries of examiners are paid out of industry funds.
''The White House attitude that you do what the marketplace allows and we won't oversee you very strongly, that was a fundamental mistake,'' said Frederick D. Wolf, the G.A.O.'s assistant comptroller general until last year.
As for the states, which had responsibility for savings associations they chartered, they followed the Federal lead in relaxing regulations.
Yet the deregulation was coupled with huge increases in Federal guarantees for deposits and mortgage-backed securities, while the capital requirements for owners were reduced. These changes significantly altered the burden of risk in the industry.
''You had the socialization of loss, if there was a loss, and the privatization of profit, if there was profit,'' Mr. Crawford said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the breakdown of safeguards in the savings and loan industry included one accounting firm erroneously in a list of firms that have been sued by the Government over their auditing of failed savings institutions. Coopers & Lybrand has not been sued by the Government. As auditor for a private financial company, the firm was sued by an Oklahoma savings and loan that did business with the financial company. The Government inherited this suit when it assumed control of the Oklahoma savings and loan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fred E. Case, University of California at Los Angeles, ''The breakdown of safeguards was pretty much across the board of those thrifts that were in trouble.'' (Craig R. Dietz, 1984); Donald J. Kirk, Columbia University Graduate School of Business ''They created equity out of thin air, with incredible rationalizations.'' (Columbia University, 1987); (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (83%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); APPROVALS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); WILLIAM J CRAWFORD (56%); PHILIP W MAHER (56%); 



79 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Most Want U.S. To Pay the Bill

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
A LARGE number of Americans say they would gladly exchange their health-care system for one in Canada, which is entirely financed by the Government.
Surveys by The Los Angeles Times in March, NBC last year and Louis Harris & Associates in 1988 all showed that majorities of at least 61 percent of those polled favored a comprehensive national health plan. In the Harris poll, respondents chose the Canadian way in preference to both the American approach and the British system of Government-controlled doctors and hospitals. The choice in The Los Angeles Times poll was between the American and Canadian systems only. 
Canadians go to their own doctors, who practice independently but are all in the system. All medical bills are paid with tax money.
The surveys worry employers and insurers. Many employers believe that higher taxes would outweigh their savings under a Canadian-style system (although American auto makers with plants in Canada have not found this to be so). And health insurers fear that their business would be decimated if the Government took over. But health-insurance experts say the Canadian system is not really the issue and that most Americans know little about either its strengths or its weaknesses.
''The issue is financial insecurity,'' said Robert J. Blendon, chairman of the Department of Health Policy and Management at the Harvard School of Public Health. Even people who have health insurance worry that their coverage may be cut back or eliminated and that they may be unable to afford medical care, he said in an interview. Americans pay 26 percent, on average, of their own health-care bills. At least 16 percent do not have either private or Government insurance.
''When a lot of people think about health care, they see a dollar sign, they see risk, they see catastrophic danger,'' said John Erb, a managing consultant in New York with Foster Higgins, an employee benefits consulting firm. In a new study of the public's feelings about health care, Dr. Blendon, along with Robert Leitman, a senior vice president with Harris; Ian Morrison, an economist with the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif., and Karen Donelan, a Harvard research associate, looked at 10 countries. They found that the degree of satisfaction with the system was highest in Canada, followed by the Netherlands, West Germany, France, Australia, Sweden, Japan, Britain and Italy. Satisfaction was lowest in the United States. The United States and South Africa are the only major industrial countries that do not have Government-paid health-care systems.
But the low approval rating and widespread preference for Canada's system did not mean that Americans were dissatisfied with their doctors and hospitals, or even that they believed national spending on health care was too high, the researchers said. ''Rather, this response indicates the high level of public frustration with our current health financing arrangements,'' the Blendon group said in Health Affairs, a quarterly journal.
Businesses of all sizes are also frustrated, said Karen Berg Brigham, health-care policy manager with the United States Chamber of Commerce. They have all been hit by rapidly growing health costs, and many small employers have had difficulty getting affordable coverage. In a survey last winter of 1,101 small-business executives for the Chamber of Commerce, 21 percent said the United States should adopt a Canadian-style system, while 56 percent opposed the idea and 23 percent were undecided.
But Ms. Brigham said the demonstration of interest in the survey should not be seen as an endorsement of Government health insurance. She noted that many foreign systems were largely financed by payroll taxes. ''This is of great concern to business, especially small businesses, she said. ''The payroll tax is one of their largest costs.'' ''The majority of employers would find their costs increasing under a Canadian system,'' said Mr. Erb of Foster Higgins. ''But for Rust Belt manufacturers with huge numbers of retirees who have expensive health-care needs, spreading the risk to the Government might lower an employer's costs.''
The health insurance industry has also found that people are concerned about losing their insurance, said Edward Neuschler, director of policy studies with the Health Insurance Association of America, a trade group. But in a survey last year for the insurers by the Roper Organization, the overwhelming percentage of respondents ''were pleased with their current coverage and benefits,'' he said. The insurers group has proposed changes in state laws and a privately financed reinsurance plan to make it easier for small-business employees to get and keep affordable coverage.
The Blendon article said the United States spent $2,051 per capita on health care in 1987, or 28 percent more than Canada, which was second with $1,483. Sweden was next, at $1,233; then France, $1,105; West Germany, $1,093, and the Netherlands, $1,041. Australia spent $939; Japan, $915; Italy, $841, and Britain, $758.
But the Canadians also have problems with health care. Costs are rising as rapidly there as in the United States, said Mr. Neuschler of the Health Insurance Association. And when Americans are told that Canadians often must wait for long periods for certain complicated operations, like a coronary bypass or hip replacement, ''they do not at all like the notion,'' he said. Indeed, Americans are largely uninformed about the Canadian health system, Dr. Blendon said. He added, ''If it weren't for the high costs in the U.S., the world would probably be discussing why Canada is so expensive.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; PUBLIC OPINION HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INSURANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (53%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT ROBERT J BLENDON (63%); 



80 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Debt Of U.S. Rises

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2

 BODY:
The United States sank deeper in debt in 1989, the Commerce Department reported today, as the nation's overall deficit with the rest of the world swelled by 25 percent, to $663.7 billion.
Until 1985, the year it became the world's biggest debtor nation, the United States was a creditor country, and as recently as 1983 had a surplus of $89 billion in its dealings with other countries. 
But at the end of 1989, United States assets abroad totaled $1.412 trillion, while foreigners owned assets in the United States worth $2.076 trillion.
At the end of 1988, United States -owned assets abroad were valued at $1.266 trillion while foreign assets in the United States were $1.797 trillion for a net United States debtor position of $531 billion.
The Commerce Department annual report indicated that foreign direct investment in the United States climbed by 22 percent, to $400.8 billion in 1989.
 
Investments abroad by the
United States also increased from 1988 levels, but by a smaller 12 percent, to $373.4 billion.
For the first time, the Commerce Department included a cautionary note with the report saying that there may be a ''misstatement'' of the size of the United States foreign debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; CREDIT COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); 



81 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Global Auction Set for Some Savings Unit Assets

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2

 BODY:
The Government will hold an international auction in late September, via satellite, for properties worth more than $1 million each that were acquired from insolvent savings and loan institutions, Administration officials said today.
The officials said that potential buyers from Japan, Britain and Canada had expressed the most interest in the properties.
''We think it will be a good way to move certain properties, and at a good price,'' said David C. Cooke, executive director of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which oversees the savings and loan bailout and will conduct the auction.
''If the Japanese are interested in real estate in Arizona, it's better than the Government carrying this property,'' he said in an interview. 
 
First of Its Kind
Foreign investors have bought such property in individual sales, but this will be the first international auction. It will involve 98 properties with a total assessed value of $341 million. Only commercial properties will be for sale, including hotels, motels, office buildings, ''strip'' shopping centers and ''maybe a golf course,'' said John Karlson, Resolution Trust's assistant director for real estate marketing.
The foreign auction centers will be in London, Tokyo and probably a Canadian city. ''If a European buyer is truly interested, he'll be able to go to London,'' Mr. Karlson said in an interview. Other cities may be added, he said, noting that ''with the satellite linkup, you can go anywhere.''
The auction will also be held in 8 to 10 American cities. It was previously announced that there would be a national auction. The auction will be conducted by the Auction Company of America, of Miami.
Foreign investors have already acquired some Resolution Trust properties, including the Hyatt Grand Champion Hotel in Indian Wells, Calif., which Japanese buyers acquired for $66 million.
The satellite presentation will include videotapes of the properties, Mr. Karlson said, and brochures will also be provided. But he said he expected that potential buyers would send representatives to inspect the properties. ''People don't buy real estate without looking at it,'' he said.
 
A Big Inventory
Resolution Trust has sold $2 billion worth of property, but still has an inventory of 35,908 properties with a book value of $14.9 billion. Though no specific list has been released, the agency's holdings include coal and uranium mines, ranches and pasture lands, 162 golf courses, oilfields, marinas and boat yards, athletic clubs, garages, parking lots and mobile home parks. Still, 84 percent of its total inventory is made up of residential properties, mainly in Texas.
The auction comes as public opinion polls indicate widespread concern about the acquisition of assets by foreigners. The Government reported last month that foreign investment rose to a record of $2 trillion last year, up 12 percent from 1988.
Supporters of foreign investment say it provides money to finance the Federal budget deficit and helps support the stock market, while providing jobs, management skills and technology.
Critics contend that the United States has become overly dependent on foreign capital, which could lead to an erosion of political and economic independence as decisions affecting Americans are increasingly made abroad.
 
A Congressman's Viewpoint
Representative Charles Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, a member of the House Banking Committee, called the international auction ''a two-edged sword.''
''On the one hand we want to maximize the amount of dollars that come into the Treasury, and sell the properties for the highest amount possible,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''In the past, the R.T.C. has not reached out to a wide-enough circle.
''On the other hand, it's a shame that because of the capital shortage and the low savings rate in America, many of these deals that will make someone money will go overseas.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: AUCTION CO (61%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE; AUCTIONS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); GOLF (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); RETAILERS (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); TRAILER PARKS (60%); MOBILE HOMES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); URANIUM MINING (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN JOHN KARLSON (69%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); 



82 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Government Bond Gains Are Global

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
WITH economies less than exuberant in most parts of the world, the last three months provided the holders of international government bonds with the best performance since 1987.
According to the J. P. Morgan government bond index, all 11 government bond markets it follows had positive returns in the quarter, ranging in local currencies from a low of 1.34 percent in West Germany to a high of 5.16 percent in Italy. In the United States, the gain was 3.34 percent.
Those figures may provide scant comfort to money managers, since in some countries the second-quarter rallies failed to offset the first-quarter tumbles, which came amid fears of inflation in Europe and Japan. 
''Interest rates had begun to rise in the first quarter quite a lot, and they began to fall in the second quarter,'' said Victor S. Filatov, the head of J. P. Morgan's bond index group. ''That's true in all markets, except the Netherlands and Germany.''
To a certain extent, the Federal Reserve gets some of the credit for the rally. As the United States reported a succession of statistics showing that the economy was slowing, the perception grew that the Fed was likely to ease. That was important both for pushing United States rates down and for creating confidence that foreign central banks would not have to raise rates further to keep them competitive.
Over all, the global government bond market saw a gain of 3.29 percent in the second quarter, in local currency, and of 4.66 percent in dollars. The latter figure reflects the fact that the dollar declined during the period against every major currency.
Those total-return figures include the gain, or loss, on government bond prices, plus interest payments. In Germany, the positive return reflected the fact that prices did not fall far enough to offset the interest payments.
The last time global bond markets did better, on a dollar basis, was in the final three months of 1987, when central banks around the world eased policies dramatically in the wake of the October 1987 crash. Then, the global government bond market recorded a return of 11.97 percent in the quarter, according to J. P. Morgan.
The return figures from country to country are not strictly comparable, since they are based on the actual government bonds outstanding. In the United States and Britain, there is a greater reliance on long-term bonds, which are much more volatile than short-term ones. Britain, with an average maturity of outstanding bonds of 8.7 years, is the most volatile bond market, while Italy, with an average maturity of just 3.3 years, has shown the least volatility, according to the J. P. Morgan figures.
Because the bonds being measured are government issues, where there is no risk of default, the bonds can benefit from a slowing economy that might raise questions of credit quality for some corporate issuers. Keith Johnson, the co-head of economic research for J. P. Morgan, said evidence of a possible slowdown of economic growth in Europe aided some bond markets in the second quarter.
The worldwide rally in government bonds played a role in the improving stock market performances around the world during the quarter. But to the extent that bond market rallies simply reflect weak economies, they can also have negative implications for corporate profits.
As if to emphasize that the dangers of slow growth still affect companies, the Standard & Poor's Corporation said yesterday that only 65 companies announced dividend increases in June, down from 88 in the same month of 1989 and the lowest for any month since November 1971, when 54 companies announced increases.
 
Shearson's 'Uncommon Values'
More evidence that retail investors are in a mood to buy stocks was provided yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton released its latest list of ''uncommon values.''
Shearson has been putting out such lists, with 10 stocks, on the first trading day of July for 42 years. Of the 10 on this year's list, six rose more than $1. Fred Fraenkel, Shearson's research director, said that it was too early to tell just how much volume the list had generated, but that, over all, it was clear that ''retail investors are buying more stocks than they were a year ago.''
A year ago, when Shearson put out its last list, the reaction was subdued in the extreme. Then only one of that year's 10, Marriott, gained $1 on the first day. As it happened, Marriott was the worst of the 10 over the next year, falling 36 percent. That did not keep the list from rising 16 percent, compared with 12.6 percent for the S.&P. 500. The star was Amgen, which rose 80 percent. The picks that rose at least $1 yesterday were Acuson, Adobe Systems, Cable & Wireless, Contel, Johnson & Johnson and Unum. The three with smaller gains were Interpublic Group, Newell and Nord Resources. Schlumberger, down 37.5 cents, was the only loser on the list.

GRAPHIC: Table of total return of government bond markets during 1990 (Source: J.P. Morgan Government Bond Indexes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN CANADA (93%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD



83 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Encouraging Environment Expertise

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
A PROFESSOR at Tufts University, Anthony D. Cortese, thinks he is one of a kind - the first at any university to hold the title of dean of environmental programs.
His main task is to incorporate environmental awareness and responsibility into every part of the curriculum through the newly established Environmental Literacy Institute.
In an interview in New York recently, he said, ''My job now is to develop academic programs in all schools at Tufts to turn out the experts we need in engineering, science, governmental policy and management.'' Tufts has 7,800 students in its various schools, which encompass engineering, liberal arts, medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, nutrition and international diplomacy. 
Just a few miles from Boston, in Medford, Mass., Tufts has well-known neighors like Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston College, the University of Massachusetts, Boston University and Northeastern University. None has an environmental dean nor such a comprehensive environmental program. The impetus for it came from Jean Mayer, a leading nutritionist who is the president of Tufts.
Allied-Signal Inc. has provided $150,000 to sustain the program for two years, and Dr. Cortese said last week that the Environmental Protection Agency had made a similar grant.
Dr. Cortese said of the program that ''it is a matter of re-educating the faculty about the environment.'' In turn, he added, they are expected to educate the students at Tufts.
At a recent seminar, Dr. Cortese provided 24 faculty members selected from the various Tufts schools and departments with a reading list, reprints of articles and copies of talks about adding environmental knowledge to their classes.
Each faculty member receives $2,000 for participating in the program, which calls for them to do creative course revisions this summer to include environmental issues. They will present revised curriculums to the faculty and to the dean at the end of the summer. Then, in the fall, they will try out the new course material on the students.
''We have asked the professors to write articles about the revisions to be published in scholarly journals in their individual fields to inspire others,'' Dr. Cortese said, ''It is critical that we act now,'' he said, explaining: ''The population of the world will double in the next 40 years, and industrial output will increase by three or four times from today's level. Degradation that will occur in the environment will be enormous. My feeling is that the people who will be making decisions about the environment are graduating from colleges today. So they need teachers who can educate them and stress the connection between their studies and the environment.''
While environmental connections appear logical in courses like economics, accounting, science, engineering and medicine, they can also be relevant in liberal arts courses, including English literature and history, Dr. Cortese said. ''Why not include Henry David Thoreau's 'Walden' and Rachel Carson's 'The Silent Spring' in literature courses?'' he asked.
As for ancient history, he said that a cause of the decline of the Roman Empire was the wide use of lead water pipes, as well as lead goblets for wine. Acid from the wine caused lead to leach out, and lead poisoning can be debilitating and lethal.
In modern history, he pointed out, there was the sad example of the Aral Sea, in the Soviet Union, which used to be the world's fourth-largest inland sea. In recent years, its water has been overused to irrigate cotton crops. ''In 35 years,'' he said, ''the Aral has beeen reduced to the sixth-largest inland sea in the world. It has lost 40 feet in depth, and the commercial fishing industry has gone, along with 60,000 jobs associated with fishing.''
With better environmental knowledge, he said, such episodes could have been prevented.
As for other colleges and schools organizing a center like his, Dr. Cortese said that ''it will not be cost effective.'' So once the Tufts faculty has been trained, the program will be offered to professors at other universities, to high school teachers and to representatives of developing nations.
Dr. Cortese, who received both a bachelor's degree in civil engineering and a master's degree in environmental engineering from Tufts, later earned a doctorate in environmental science from Harvard University's School of Public Health in 1976.
Before he joined Tufts as a professor of environmental affairs in 1984 at Dr. Mayer's request to organize a center for environmental management, he served for six years as commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection. Before that he was with the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington. In both posts he learned much about industrial polluters.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TUFTS UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LITERATURE (73%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (71%); DENTISTRY (71%); NUTRITION (69%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



84 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Leads Quality Survey

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 2

 BODY:
The Toyota Motor Corporation's Cressida sedan had the lowest number of problems reported by car owners in an influential survey of quality conducted each year by J. D. Power & Associates.
Toyota dominated the survey results, which were released today by the automotive market research firm in Westlake Village, Calif. The company had Corolla, Camry and Lexus models also listed in the top 10.
The survey enumerates the problems new-car customers report within the first three months of ownership. Consumer experience in the first few months after purchasing a new car ''sets the stage for owner satisfaction,'' said David E. Whiteside, publisher of the report.
Two Mercedes-Benz models were in the top 10, as were two cars made by the Nissan Motor Company.
The only American car listed among the 10 most trouble-free was the Buick LeSabre, made by the General Motors Corporation, which ranked sixth this year, down from second place a year ago.
A compact pickup truck made by the Mazda Motor Corporation led the light-truck category, but American-made vehicles fared better in this group. The Ford Motor Company's Ranger pickup and Bronco II sport utility vehicle ranked No. 5 and No. 9, respectively, while Chevrolet's S-10 pickup ranked No. 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (97%); TM (NYSE) (97%); 7203 (TSE) (97%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (70%); 7261 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (97%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (70%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (69%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; POWER, J D, & ASSOCIATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES RANKINGS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); SEDANS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (70%); 



85 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Mark and the Pound Advance Against the Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The mark rose in foreign exchange markets yesterday, the first day of trading after the monetary union in East and West Germany over the weekend. Demand for the British pound also remained strong.
The support for the mark and pound put pressure on the dollar, which declined to levels not seen since 1988 against those currencies, traders said. Gold prices rose. Timothy Burton, a trader for the Harris Trust and Company in Chicago, said dealers were buying marks and sterling at the expense of the dollar. 
He said the smooth distribution of marks to East Germans, starting on Sunday, was helping the mark, while sterling was supported by relatively high British interest rates and increased speculation that Britain would soon be joining the European Monetary System.
The dollar traded at 1.6515 German marks in New York, down from 1.66065, and at 1.6580 marks in Europe, down from 1.6653. The last time it traded at those levels was in early 1988, Mr. Burton said.
In London, the pound was at $1.7635, up from $1.7450 late Friday. A pound fetched $1.7715 in New York - an 18-month high, Mr. Burton said - up from $1.7490 Friday.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 151.40 yen, down 1.45 yen from the finish last Friday. It traded at 151.25 yen in London, and at 150.91 yen in New York, down from 152.10 yen Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's quotes, included: 1.3965 Swiss francs, down from 1.4150; 5.5450 French francs, down from 5.5795; 1,212.75 Italian lire, down from 1,219.75, and 1.16175 Canadian dollars, down from 1.16335.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Friday, were: 1.4030 Swiss francs, down from 1.4155; 5.5635 French francs, down from 5.5945; 1.8650 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8737; 1,217.00 Italian lire, down from 1,222.50, and 1.1616 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1657.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery traded at $358.80 an ounce, up 90 cents from late Friday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold of $357.85, which was up 35 cents.
Gold traded in London at $357.55, up from $353.25 bid late Friday. The Zurich price was $357.80, up from $352.00 late Friday. In Hong Kong, gold traded at $357.15, up $5.
Silver prices also strengthened. On the Comex in New York, silver for current delivery traded at $4.935 an ounce, up from $4.887 Friday. Silver rose in London to $4.95 from $4.84.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); HONG KONG (65%); JAPAN (55%); SWITZERLAND (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); ZURICH (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM GERMAN MARK (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: TIMOTHY BURTON (79%); 



86 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: MANDELA HOPEFUL ON BRITISH TALKS

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 3

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela expressed optimism today about the prospects of narrowing his differences with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher over economic sanctions against South Africa, and backed off from comments that had suggested that Britain should negotiate with the Irish Republican Army.
On the first day of a two-day official visit, Mr. Mandela met Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd for lunch to discuss the prospects for resolution of South Africa's racial conflict. After the meeting, Mr. Hurd told reporters that he had emphasized to Mr. Mandela that Britain was ''anxious to do everything we could to help without interfering in South Africa's affairs.''
Mr. Mandela, deputy president of the African National Congress, said, ''I stressed the historical ties between Britain and South Africa and expressed the hope that these ties would be strengthened.'' 
 
A Strenuous Tour
The congress leader, nearing the end of a strenuous tour that has covered Western Europe and the United States, said he was ''optimistic'' about his talks with Mrs. Thatcher, scheduled for Wednesday. They are expected to discuss at least two issues - the congress's refusal to renounce the use of force against the Government and the continuation of international economic sanctions against South Africa, backed by the congress as a means to press the Government to end apartheid.
Britain has condemned the use of violence and been criticized by Mr. Mandela for easing some sanctions, including a ban on new investment in South Africa, in the belief that President F. W. de Klerk should be encouraged to reach a settlement.
Mr. Mandela suggested that there was a possibility of narrowing the gap between the two positions and said: ''There are some points of difference. That does not worry me.'' Controversy Over I.R.A.
But the issue of economic pressure was overshadowed today by the controversy surrounding remarks Mr. Mandela made in Dublin on Monday that appeared to suggest that Britain should open unconditional talks with the Irish Republican Army, which has been trying to force Britain out of Northern Ireland. Britain has said that it would not consider talks until the group lays down its weapons.
In reply to an I.R.A. question at a news conference, Mr. Mandela said: ''People are slaughtering one another when they could sit down and address the problems in a peaceful manner.''
Mr. Mandela said later that he had been misinterpreted after criticism from all of Britain's main political parties and both liberal and conservative newspapers. In a meeting today with 150 British Members of Parliament, he insisted that he had been speaking about conflict in general and not specifically about Northern Ireland.
 
$7 Million Raised in U.S.
By The Associated Press
Nelson Mandela raised more than $7 million for the African National Congress in his eight-city tour of the United States, according to figures provided by tour organizers.
Organizers said most of the cash should reach the congress because many meeting places and equipment used by the tour were donated or supplied at a discount. Expenses have not been subtracted from the income.
In Boston, planners raised about half their $1 million goal. But in New York, fund raisers said between $1.75 million and $2 million had been raised, about double their goal.
In Atlanta, projections were for roughly $400,000, while about $300,000 was raised in the Miami area. In Washington, about $150,000 was raised. Income in Detroit was estimated at $1.4 million, and preliminary numbers from Los Angeles were $1.7 million and from Oakland, Calif., $900,000.
The proceeds are to be deposited in a fund for the congress controlled by the American directors of the tour, led by Roger Wilkins, a professor at George Mason University and the trip's chief planner. The money will be used to finance 14 offices in South Africa for the African National Congress, a spokeswoman said. The remainder will go toward housing and education.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Mandela, left, being greeted yesterday in London by Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd before their meeting. They discussed prospects for resolution of South Africa's racial conflict. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); NORTHERN IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (90%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; NORTHERN IRELAND; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); TRAVEL, PERSONAL EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); POLITICS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); LIBERALISM (66%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA; MANDELA, NELSON; THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN); HURD, DOUGLAS (SEC) NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (94%); MARGARET THATCHER (92%); 



87 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Liberian Rebels Close In on City Center

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3

 BODY:
Liberian rebel forces were reported to be advancing slowly toward downtown Monrovia from the suburbs of the Liberian capital today in street-to-street fighting against Government forces. A senior Bush Administration official said the Liberian President, Samuel K. Doe, was ''in deep trouble right now.''
''The heavy fighting is continuing,'' said Herman J. Cohen, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, who is in contact with the United States Embassy in Liberia. ''Shooting is going on near the St. Paul River Bridge, showing that the fighting is getting into Monrovia.'' 
Mr. Cohen would not predict when Mr. Doe might fall or choose to accept an American offer to help him find sanctuary outside the country, but he said ''the end game is near.''
The National Patriotic Front guerrillas led by Charles Taylor, a former official in the Doe Government, began their assault on the capital early Monday. Attacking from the east and northwest, the guerrillas were reported to have cut off the three major exit roads. The reports could not be confirmed. Most communications links from the capital have been cut since early Monday, making reports from the battle zone sketchy and sporadic.
 
Resistance Stiffens a Bit
Mr. Cohen said the guerrillas were able to advance as quickly as they have in the past few weeks because ''the size of the army has shrunk due to desertions.'' But he said that as the rebels move closer to the heart of the capital and encounter Mr. Doe's elite units, Government resistance is beginning to stiffen.
An official acknowledged that it is possible that the troops, who are mostly members of the Krahn and Mandingo tribes, are fighting better because they fear retribution from the rebels, who are mostly Gio and Mano tribesmen. The seven-month civil war has accentuated ethnic hostilities.
Another Administration official said the Government could last ''days, not weeks.'' But he stressed that it was not certain that Mr. Taylor would take power.
''We have reports of internecine fighting in Taylor's political wing,'' the official said. ''There are five guys going around Monrovia saying they are in charge.''
Mr. Cohen said the Bush Administration favors a diplomatic initiative by the Economic Community of West African States, which has a representative in Monrovia trying to restart peace talks that broke down last month. The mediator has proposed an interim government, excluding both Mr. Doe and Mr. Taylor, to organize elections as soon as possible.
 
Doe Aides Seek His Removal
Bush Administrations officials said that Vice President Harry Moniba and three senior legislators met with American diplomats at the United States Embassy on Mondy to discuss ways of removing Mr. Doe, but that the talks did not continue today. Mr. Doe has refused to resign.
Reuters reported from Monrovia today that Mr. Doe had agreed in principle to resign if his safety and that of his Krahn tribe could be assured. Mr. Doe reportedly made his decision after Mr. Moniba and other ranking officials urged him to step down.
But a State Department official who monitors Liberia said: ''We can't confirm that. We have heard his cronies say that but that is second- or third-hand stuff.''
Four American warships carrying 2,500 sailors and Marines continue to ply waters off Liberia's coast in case President Bush decides to evacuate the remaining 800 American residents or protect American installations.
An Administration official today indicated that there was a one-in-four chance the Marines would land, a lower estimate than he gave a few weeks ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (90%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA; MONROVIA (LIBERIA)

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD SAMUEL K DOE (95%); CHARLES TAYLOR (75%); HERMAN J COHEN (73%); 



88 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Lima Journal;
What's Hawked at Curbside? Dolares

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
With his white jogging shoes padding on the pavement, Fernando Pantigoso loped alongside a slowing car and offered the day's special - the United States dollar at 65,000 intis.
''Dolares, dolares,'' he said. It was a June day, and he was flashing the tools of his trade - a pocket calculator and a stack of bills.
Traffic intersections in many third-world cities offer an ambulatory bazaar of goods ranging from coat hangers to papayas. In Lima, the curbside service offers dollars. 
Much of the currency constantly flashing through hands here left the United States to pay for cocaine shipments from Colombia and Peru. Without this steady infusion of drug money - about $1 billion a year - the inti would probably trade at half its street-market value.
 
Fear of Holding Intis
With the inti's value shrinking by 1 percent a day, Peru's economy has spawned a new profession - thousands of so-called cambistas offering instant exchange.
The trade is profitable. Three years ago, Mr. Pantigoso left his $8-a-week job in a furniture factory to join his wife and three brothers working the same street corner in Miraflores. Today, on a good 12-hour day, Mr. Pantigoso clears $20 profit.
Fueling the constant trading is a fear of holding intis for even an hour longer than needed.
''In the final stage of hyperinflation, people reject the local currency,'' said an American economist here. He noted that by the time Alan Garcia steps down from Peru's presidency on July 28, prices will have gone up 1 million percent during his five-year tenure. #2 Streets, 1 Cambista ''By law, the inti is the means of exchange,'' the economist said. ''But people only keep enough intis to cover daily transactions.''
So in a ritual often strange to newcomers, young men and women can be seen throughout Peru standing on street corners, flashing pocket calculators in the faces of passers-by.
''I was in Churin,'' Lucho Davila Mendoza, another cambista here, said of a hamlet in the Andean foothills. ''There were two streets and one cambista.''
With a blue-jean pack filled with money strapped securely over his chest, Mr. Davila works the same street corner with Mr. Pantigosoa in the affluent Miraflores neighborhood. Business is so good that 12 cambistas now work the corner - double the number two years ago.
 
Business Cards, Steady Clients
The corner fruit-and-candy vendor recently started trading dollars. The children peddling American cigarettes and cartons of cheap Chilean wine hope to move up to dollars when they grow up.
Reflecting the new stability of inflationary instability, Mr. Davila has started handing regular customers a salmon-pink business card. It is printed with two dollar signs, his street-corner address and his radio paging telephone number.
''I have clients on all these floors,'' Mr. Davila said, waving expansively to high-rise office buildings rising above heavily trafficked Jose Pardo Avenue.
Mr. Davila, a former clothing salesman, works across the street from the nominal competition - the local branch of a state bank, Banco de la Nacion.
''The state workers cash their paychecks, and then come straight across the street,'' he said between making sidewalk trades. ''During the week, people exchange what they need for the day - $20 for groceries, $10 for the movies.'' #5-Million Inti Notes No one knows how many dollars flow through the cambistas' hands. The best guess is that they change a large part of the annual $1 billion in drug money that goes through Peru, with the money coming directly to the capital from the chief coca-leaf growing area in the Upper Huallaga Valley.
People involved in the street practice say that while the dollar is freely convertible here, the street trading is illegal because the cambistas pay no taxes. At the outset of the Garcia Government in July 1985, they say, some arrests were made. But now the practice is tolerated. Street changers say their biggest fear is not the police but holdup men.
Seven floors above the street, Angel Vicente Sebastianelli, one of Mr. Davila's regular customers, said in an interview in his office, ''I never keep intis around.''
''Tomorrow, the inti is worthless,'' said Mr. Sebastianelli, a printing executive. ''One of my nephews has papered his bedroom wall with 10-inti notes.''
Indeed, inflation has made Peru a land of impoverished millionaires.
El Comercio, a local newspaper that disapproves of Mr. Garcia's habit of printing money to paper over budget shortfalls, takes morbid delight in publishing the sordid details of each monetary issue.
According to the newspaper, 800 billion intis in 100,000-inti notes arrived here in early June from a Mexican printing press.
With a 5-million note expected here by the end of August, the cambistas admit that inflation may be getting out of hand.
''These calculators only show eight digits,'' Mr. Davila said. ''I may have to buy a 10-digit calculator.
In early June Peruvians elected a new President, Alberto Fujimori. During the campaign, Mr. Fujimori vowed to create ''a hard currency that has parity with the North American dollar.''
On the Miraflores street corner, several cambistas said they voted for Mr. Fujimori. But they were confident that he will not spoil business.
''Politicians make promises, promises,'' Mr. Pantigoso said, sipping an apple juice in a neighborhood grocery store. ''They don't fulfill them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the steady decline of the inti, Peru's black market in dollars is booming. In Lima, where black marketeers offer curbside service, currency dealers rushed to talk to a prospective buyer in an automobile. (Vera A. Lentz/Blackstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; PANMUNJOM (KOREA)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); COCAINE (69%); FURNITURE MFG (52%); 

PERSON: FERNANDO PANTIGOSO (64%); ALAN GARCIA (62%); 



89 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
German Unity by Year's End Now Almost Certain

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, July 2

 BODY:
The East German Government's decision to call for all-German elections on Dec. 2 now makes it almost certain that Germany will be reunited by the end of this year, West German Government officials say.
In the six weeks since Chancellor Helmut Kohl came out in favor of turning West Germany's federal elections into an all-German poll, the idea has steadily gained ground in both Germanys and among all major parties.
Finally on Monday night, on the day after economic union went into effect, the East German governing coalition formally agreed to seek all-German elections on Dec. 2.
 
Completing Reunification
A democratic national election would be the first since 1932, and it would complete the process of reunification that began with the opening of the Berlin wall on Nov. 9 and took a major step forward on Sunday with the merging of the German currencies and economies. 
The East German Government also agreed to reconstitute the states that existed before Communist rule and to hold state elections on Oct. 14. The re-establishment of the five former states is necessary to meet the condition for joining West Germany under Article 23 of the West German Constitution. The article empowers any German state to join the Federal Republic.
East Germany's proposal is certain to be welcomed by the West German coalition when the coalition and the Cabinet Committee on German Unity meet on Wednesday, a senior official in Mr. Kohl's Government said. Bonn has made clear its preference for all-German voting in December, but the formal proposal had to come from East Berlin, since it is East Germany that must initiate the process of joining the West.
Under the options now being considered, the Germanys would formally unite either just before or immediately after the election. The West German Constitution calls for a government to be formed within 30 days after an elections, so if the election is held on Dec. 2, a new government will most likely be in place by the New Year.
 
First Session by Christmas
Volker Ruhe, the secretary general of the Christian Democratic party in Bonn, said he hoped that the first all-German Parliament would be convened by Christmas.
The East German Government set two conditions to the election. One was that the two Germanys agree on a second treaty harmonizing the two states' political institutions and laws, including those affecting property rights. The first state treaty was the one that went into effect on Sunday, merging the economies of the two Germanys. Officials in East Berlin said talks on the second treaty would start on Friday.
The second condition was that the Germanys reach agreement with the four World War II Allies - the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France - on the international and security aspects of German unification. The Allies are in the process of negotiating with the two Germanys in the so-called ''two plus four'' talks.
The central problem has been the Soviet Union's resistance to ceding the control it has had over East Germany without some compensation for the economic and security loss.
One issue has been Moscow's reluctance to let a united Germany stay in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and Moscow's insistence for a limit on German military power.
 
Size of United Army Discussed
Mr. Kohl met today with his Foreign and Defense Ministers, Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Gerhard Stoltenberg, to discuss the size of an all-German army. The combined strength of the military in the two Germanys is now about 600,000 men, and figures for the future have ranged from the 200,000 proposed by Moscow to the 400,000 suggested by Mr. Stoltenberg.
Participants in the ''two plus four'' talks have said they expect to reach an agreement in time to present it to the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe for endorsement in November. That would clear any foreign obstacles to unity in December.
A spokesman for the East German Government also reported today that the coalition had agreed to set a 5 percent hurdle for the all-German elections. That would match the West German voting rule under which only parties that receive 5 percent or more of the vote would gain representation in Parliament.
The issue has been a major source of contention. East German rules set a 3 percent threshhold, and the difference could determine whether the reformed Communist party, the Party of Democratic Socialism, and the right-wing German Social Union - a sister party of the Bavarian Christian Social Union - enter the all-German Parliament. Both parties could probably take 3 percent of the East German vote, but neither is likely to take 5 percent of an all-German vote.
 
Split in Kohl's Coalition
The question split Mr. Kohl's coalition, since the Christian Social members wanted to keep the 3 percent limit. All other parties but the Communists wanted the 5 percent limit, each for a different reason.
Mr. Kohl's Christian Democrats have no interest in giving the Christian Social Union a foothold in East Germany.
On the left, the Social Democrats have sought a 5 percent hurdle to keep the Communists from siphoning seats away from them.
The liberal Free Democrats of Mr. Genscher have also wanted the higher hurdle to insure that smaller parties do not dilute the liberals' longstanding role as the centrist force without which neither of the major parties can form a majority in Parliament.
The Party of Democratic Socialism predictably assailed the December date, arguing that it had been ''dictated by Bonn'' and would make unity a ''premature birth.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers in East Berlin viewing goods that are available as a result of economic union with West Germany.; East Germans waiting in line outside a temporary Government office in Dresden yesterday to obtain drivers licenses. The unification between the East and West has made new cars immediately available to East German buyers, who formerly had to wait several years for cars. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

COMPANY: EAST GERMAN GOVERNMENT (79%); GERMAN PARLIAMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



90 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: American Freed in Ecuador Savors Home and the Town That Saved Him

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., July 3

 BODY:
After 61 days in captivity in the Colombian jungle, Scott Heimdal has returned to the Illinois city that passed collection plates and held bake sales to raise $60,000 to free him.
In the wee hours this morning at his parents' home, shortly after his arrival at the Peoria airport, Mr. Heimdal, a mining worker who will turn 28 on Thursday, spoke calmly of his ordeal. A Budweiser in one hand and a Marlboro in the other, he told of being constantly on the move, of eating monkey and armadillo and of living in daily fear of being caught in the crossfire between his guerrilla captors and the Colombian army.
He showed his family the small machete the guerrillas gave him to cut through the jungle and the spoon he chiseled out of root because the half-dozen guerrillas guarding him had only one spoon among them. And he recalled the moment he was taken captive on a river on the Ecuador-Colombia border, when the guerrillas killed the paddler of his canoe and wounded another man in the party. 
 
Delight in a 'Gringo'
''Are you a gringo?'' Mr. Heimdal recalled one guerrilla's asking him at gunpoint in Spanish.
When Mr. Heimdal replied, ''Yes, I am,'' he said the guerrilla said, ''Good, then you're kidnapped.''
''I wasn't afraid,'' Mr. Heimdal said last night. ''I wasn't nervous. I just couldn't believe I was being kidnapped.''
He said the guerrillas, from a Maoist Colombian group known as the P.F.L., treated him well. They even got him an antifungal cream for trench foot, for which he was seeking medical treatment when his canoe was seized. They expressed sorrow that their action had hurt his family and told him they were just following orders.
Before his captors released him to the Ecuadorean national police, they gave Mr. Heimdal what he called a ''going-away party,'' singing revolutionary songs and giving him Colombian pesos worth $400.
Mr. Heimdal said he had no idea that his hometown had scrambled to rescue him.
Many of the people who spent a feverish three days last month trying to raise the $60,000 cheered Mr. Heimdal at the airport Monday night, decorated the family's white-shingled bungalow with red, white and blue bunting and stopped by to tell Mr. Heimdal that they had been praying for him.
''You want to thank people,'' he said, ''but how do you say it and what do you do?''
Mr. Heimdal spent his first hours back in Peoria satisfying a few cravings, like eating potato chips and his sister Linda's pasta, and recounting for his family his two months in captivity.
He spent his first night back home sleeping in the basement on the hammock he had used in his captivity. After so many nights on the hammock, he was unable to fall asleep on a mattress.
This morning, after a breakfast of steakburgers and doughnuts, Mr. Heimdal went to get his hair cut. He plans to see a doctor in a few days for the residual sores and swelling from the trench foot.
In Washington, the State Department said Mr. Heimdal had been interviewed by Ecuadorean and American officials before he left for the United States.
''He was debriefed by both the Ecuadorean security police as well as our embassy down there,'' said one official, adding, ''We really didn't learn anything that we didn't know.''
The State Department said that the investigation remained in the hands of the Ecuadorean officials and that Washington planned no independent action.
 
City Rallies Round
Mr. Heimdal was working for Iminco, an American mining concern in Ecuador, when he was abducted April 28. He then became a rallying point for a city that set aside its own troubles to win back a native son.
Peoria is still rebounding from the loss of hundreds of manufacturing jobs in the last decade and an unemployment rate that hit 17 percent in the mid-1980's. But when residents heard that Mr. Heimdal's family lacked the money to pay his ransom, they turned out by the hundreds to help.
Mayor James Maloof made a public plea that each household in the city of about 125,000 people donate $1. Children set up lemonade stands. People held garage sales and car washes and set up booths at a parking lot to collect dollar bills. Some laborers showed up in work clothes with hatfuls of change, and apologized for not bringing more.
The city raised $60,000 in a little over three days. But shortly after the money was wired to a bank in Ecuador, the kidnappers told the Heimdal family through an intermediary that the $60,000 was just a down payment and that they actually wanted $600,000.
 
Response to a Mother's Plea
Mr. Heimdal's parents - Roy, a kitchen cabinet salesman, and Marge, a nursing home worker - then went to Ecuador to try to convince the guerrillas that they had no more money.
''I told them that I am not rich,'' Mrs. Heimdal said. ''I told them, 'My riches are my children, and right now you have one of my riches.' I told them I wasn't going back to the U.S. until I could take my child back with me.''
Her plea, the behind-the-scenes work of an unnamed intermediary and the guerrilla group's history of releasing its hostages unharmed led to the freeing of Mr. Heimdal last Friday evening.
''All I could do was cry,'' Mrs. Heimdal said, recalling that night. ''Everything came so close to going wrong. My husband and I just held each other and cried and cried.''
She called her son's release ''better than the day my children were born.''
 
Ending to a Nightmare
Back home, residents were preparing banners and streamers for Mr. Heimdal's arrival and planning a homecoming picnic on Saturday.
''A lot of people felt he shouldn't have been down there in the first place,'' said Gary Olson, a Peoria disk jockey who helped raise money for the ransom. ''But people were relieved just to see him get off that plane. It's a happy ending to a nightmare.''
Roy Heimdal is still in Ecuador and is scheduled to arrive here tomorrow with his son's Ecuadorean fiancee, Sandra Durango. A delay in getting Miss Durango's visa prevented them from flying home with Scott and his mother.
The Heimdal family, which has received further contributions since Scott's plight became known, said it planned to use the unspent money to create a fund for families of other hostages.
And Mr. Heimdal said that he planned to return to Ecuador someday - but that he was through with gold mining.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Heimdal resting back home in Peoria, Ill., with his sisters, Angie, right, and Linda, in the hammock he slept in throughout his captivity in a Colombian jungle. Mr. Heimdal was working for an American mining concern in Ecuador when he was kidnapped on April 28 by guerrillas. (Fred Zwicky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ECUADOR (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; PEORIA (ILL); ECUADOR

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING; RANSOM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (64%); ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS (63%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; HEIMDAL, SCOTT MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



91 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Half of Cities in U.S. Say Revenue Fails To Cover Spending

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3

 BODY:
More than half the nation's cities and towns expect spending to exceed revenue in the current budget year and two-thirds of the municipalities say budget problems are worse than a year ago, according to a survey released Monday.
The survey of 576 municipalities by the National League of Cities, whose membership is open to cities and towns with populations of at least 10,000, found the budget pressures greatest in the Northeast, where the regional economy is in a slump. Five of six cities and towns surveyed in that region reported that their financial problems were worse than a year ago. 
A majority of municipalities in the South, the Midwest and the West also reported that budget strains were greater this year.
Over all, 54 percent of the municipalities surveyed said they would be spending more than they took in during the current year and 68 percent said their budget problems were worse than they were a year ago.
 
Cities Also Turn to Taxes
Leaders of the organization said a major factor in the growing municipal budget problems was the lack of help from Washington.
''We see this as a crucial time for national leadership,'' said Donald Borut, the league's executive director.
As President Bush and Congressional leaders seek an agreement on a deficit-reduction plan likely to include some form of higher taxes, the survey showed many cities were also looking for more revenue.
Forty-one percent of those surveyed have raised local property taxes and 76 percent have increased fees and other charges, the League of Cities said.
Just over half, 51 percent, reduced the rate of spending growth and 39 percent contracted certain services to outside companies to cut costs, the survey found.
Mr. Borut called the results ''a warning signal about stresses on our local revenue systems, about our ability to maintain important services and about the consequences of unfunded mandates and the continuing withdrawal of Federal and state participation in providing vital services.''
The league's board of directors plans to meet next week with Representative Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat of Illinois, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, before the league makes its suggestions on deficit-reduction priorities.
Last month, Mr. Rostenkowski told another municipal organization, the United States Conference of Mayors, that cities were unlikely to get any additional help from Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (55%); 



92 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Humanitarian Aid for Romania Is Best

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Daniel N. Nelson's description of the June 13 violence in Bucharest (''Romania Needs Help, Not Sanctions,'' Op-Ed, June 19) as a clumsy attempt by an inexperienced government to restore public order, underestimates President Ion Iliescu's intelligence and resolve.
Although acts of civil disobedience and fascist uprisings might look equally dangerous to the new Romanian Government, we can hardly believe it mistook one for the other. Mr. Iliescu surely understands that his National Salvation Front owes a good part of its electoral victory to four groups of voters: the unproductive (military, police, Government apparatchiks); the inefficient (workers and bureaucrats from subsidized branches of the state economy); the ill informed (from areas where the opposition was not allowed or not able to campaign), and the afraid (in areas where former Communists still maintain iron-fisted control).
On June 13, Mr. Iliescu enhanced his position with all these groups. He showed ordinary citizens what they should be afraid of if they join the opposition. He reneged on a pledge to the student protesters to establish an independent television station. He gave his blue-collar supporters, the endangered species of the promised conversion to a free-market system, a new and patriotic ''law and order'' mission. Finally, Mr. Iliescu reassured the Romanian establishment that no opposition party or economic program will be allowed to threaten its power and privileges. 
Under these circumstances, the United States Government should be very reluctant to extend economic aid or encourage private investments in Romania. As the front's power results from the skewed allocation of Rumania's economic output in favor of selected classes of supporters, we risk subsidizing Romania's miners and secret policemen with American tax and savings dollars.
We can help the Romanians more by dramatically increasing humanitarian aid to that country. The primitive health-care system is being overwhelmed by an exploding acquired immune deficiency syndrome epidemic, and malnutrition is rampant. If the Romanian Government wants to dispel America's suspicions, it should allow the independent television station the student protesters demanded. Our Government could even consider legally subsidizing it, through National Endowment for Democracy grants, for example.
Then Mr. Nelson's theory of growing pains as an explanation for the June 13 crackdown would be more credible.
 
ANDREI CERNASOV
 Long Island City, Queens, June 20, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROMANIA

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (71%); MALNUTRITION (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); AIDS & HIV (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (55%); 

PERSON: CERNASOV, ANDREI ION ILIESCU (92%); 



93 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Town Built on Indian Land Lost Its Chance to Plan Ahead

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The people of Salamanca, a railroad town in western New York that had been illegally established on Indian land, received leases to rent the property, each lasting 99 years'' (front page, June 11). ''Hoping to make up for the inflationary decades they spent collecting 1890's rents, the Seneca have set the price of a new lease at $800,000 a year. They have also asked for an immediate payment of $60 million to make up for the in-equities of the original lease.'' 
In 1969, the leaders of the Seneca Nation had the wisdom to see that the pending expiration of the leases -still more than 20 years in the future - could have a devastating effect on the economy of Salamanca and the region well before the actual time of expiration. Lenders, who have to look 20 and 30 years down the road, were even then beginning to withhold the long-term financing needed for investment and economic stability.
To resolve the problem while there was still time to avoid real damage, the Senecas asked the newly founded school of architecture at the State University's Buffalo campus to study the situation and try to fashion a practical yet just solution. As a first-year graduate student, I was the leader of the student team that worked on the project, under faculty direction. I believe the Senecas commissioned conventional real estate evaluation elsewhere.
We came up with an answer that seemed to work for everyone. Rather than set the rent based on the value of the land (whatever that means), we decided to determine what new rent the residents and businesses of Salamanca could afford - an approach based on more justice than the Senecas had received under the original lease. Using census data, we analyzed the income of residents and businesses leasing Seneca land. For businesses, we determined a range of typical rents by business type. For residents, we applied the principle that rent should be 25 percent of income (Federal guidelines today call for 30 percent). The new rent, using this approach, would have been $200,000 in 1970, and would have escalated by some index, to be determined by all parties.
We recommended that the Senecas use some or all of the proceeds of this increased rent to establish a joint economic development body for the region. We suggested investing in new small industries and developing a tourist industry based on the natural beauty of the area and the special native American understanding of the natural environment.
Apparently, Salamanca did not accept the proposal. The $800,000 rent being proposed by the Senecas is roughly equivalent to the 1969 figure, but the city's 20-year economic decline in the face of the expiring leases may mean that it is no longer affordable.
 
ROSALIND S. PAASWELL
 Chicago, June 21, 1990
 
The writer, former Chicago first deputy commissioner of economic development and acting commissioner, is in private development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY AT BUFFALO (SUNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALAMANCA (NY)

SUBJECT: RENTING AND LEASING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS PROPERTY LEASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); CENSUS (50%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: PAASWELL, ROSALINE S ROSALIND S PAASWELL CHICAGO (61%); 



94 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37, Column 2; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Picnics: Declaring the Spirit of a People

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

 BODY:
IT is a meal for our times - providing at once a respite from frenzy even as it affords the opportunity for social tolerance. It is the picnic. And on this Day of Independence, there is perhaps no more appropriate way to celebrate.
''The picnic is a testament to our diversity,'' said H. Douglas Sessoms, a professor of leisure studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
No longer reserved just for special events, picnics seem to have become imbedded in the American psyche - as symbolic of this nation's craving for natural beauty as it is of its appreciation for individual difference. With wide appeal that cuts across all economic, social, ethnic and age barriers, the picnic in its myriad incarnations and interpretations has - despite these days of otherwise harried meals and frazzled nerves - surprisingly held its own. 
''Picnics are alive and well,'' said Merle Van Horne, an outdoor recreation planner with the National Parks Service in Washington. Although there is no formal picnic lobby and picnics generally do not elicit great waves of public passion, he said, ''millions upon millions do it.''
Picnickers no doubt are the last to worry about such things. But sociologists and others say consuming a meal in a natural setting away from the home has such universal appeal because it taps a vast array of impulses, ranging from a yearning to return to nature, to a need to escape from the heat, to a desire to break out from everyday routine. Indeed the hectic nature of modern life, some say, has enhanced the picnic's allure.
''I think the picnic is directly proportional to the degree people have been alienated from nature,'' said John Gillis, a professor of social history at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. He adds that since modern life is so disconnected from nature today, the picnic has finally come of age.
Eating informally in an outdoor setting would have been abhorrent in the 17th and 18th century, Mr. Gillis said. ''It would have been associated with animals and the lower classes. It took centuries to get off the ground. To see whole populations squatting in the dirt would have been shocking.''
Indeed (as there are no doubt theories about every other spontaneous social phenomenon known to man) a whole school of thought has developed on the subject - that given the pace of modern life and the disconnection of contemporary families, picnics have assumed an important function.
John Kelly, a sociologist at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, for example, has determined that picnics have emerged as an important ritual to the perpetuation of the extended family.
''You get dad and the kids away from the television set,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''When family members have other obligations at other times, a picnic provides the chance to set aside a certain number of hours to help build family relationships.''
George Armelagos, an anthropologist at the University of Florida at Gainesville and an author of ''Consuming Passions: The Anthropology of Eating,'' (Washington Square Press, 1980), says that in this ever changing world, the picnic has emerged as a harbor of stability.
''Picnics help anchor us,'' Mr. Armelagos said. ''We get to take our time and enjoy ourselves. We get to idealize our bucolic notions of what life was like before.''
Keith Pension, a consultant living in Bryn Mawr, Pa., for example, frequently organizes elaborate picnic gatherings for her family and friends. ''When you spend most of your life being fairly formal, a picnic is a wonderful chance to be informal,'' Mrs. Pension said. ''Everything from what you wear to what you sit on, to what kind of food you can serve, to what kind of conversation. It's a wonderful excuse to be silly and stuff things in your mouth with your fingers.''
The picnic has come a long way since its beginnings. Initially a formal gathering of the privileged of 18th-century Britain, the word picnic was derived from the French ''pique-nique'' (''piquer,'' to pick, and ''nique,'' a small thing) and connoted a pot-luck-style supper. Eventually the term was reserved for communal meals held outdoors but were still for those wealthy enough to organize a foray into the country.
Today, in large part because of the accessibility of public parks, public transportation and the automobile, the picnic is readily available to nearly all segments of society. According to a recent study by the United States Department of Agriculture's Forest Service, more than 54 percent of all Americans over the age of 12 have gone on at least one picnic in the past year and in that pursuit have spent some $5.2 billion on travel, lodging, food and equipment.
There is no set menu or etiquette to the modern-day picnic or indeed any rigid definition of what a picnic is, although there are those who hold strong opinions about what a picnic is not.
''The porch is not a picnic,'' said Mary Ellen W. Hern, who has written extensively on the history of the American picnic and is a fan of the outdoor meal. ''It has to be away from your house. I think part of the magic of the picnic is the spirit of adventure in leaving your house.''
Mr. Von Horne of the National Parks Service agrees that a backyard barbecue or a supper on the patio is not a picnic. ''Clearly to go on a picnic means just that - to go,'' he said. So, then, where do Americans go to picnic? In a word: Everywhere - from Riverside Park in New York to Golden Gate Park in San Francisco. From the shores of Lake Michigan to the sands of Daytona, Fla. From the cliffs of the Grand Canyon to the plains of Kansas. From the beaches of Cape Cod to the rocks of the Painted Desert.
Picnic styles are as diverse as their locations, ranging from fast food tailgates at football games to makeshift barbecues in public parks, from formal caviar and champagne suppers on fine linens at outdoor concerts to to arroz con pollo along the banks of urban rivers, and even peanut butter and jelly sandwiches at the beach.
Just ask Rob Schulte, the grocery manager at Vons of Boulder City, Nev., a supermarket at the entrance to the Lake Meade National Recreation Area, where these days, he says, ''the place is packed with people buying every kind of hot dog, hamburgers, ribs, chicken, buns, ketchup, mustard, pickles, mayonnaise, pop, beer, chips, fried chicken, apples, grapes, you name it'' to take into the park.
Or ask Arthur Stewart, an official at Gateway National Park in Brooklyn, and he will tell you about how many of the six million annual visitors come to the park laden with food, blankets, hammocks and their own grills. Or ask Pat MacNichol, a spokesman for Winterthur, a museum in Wilmington, Del., which every year sponsors an annual picnic contest, and she will tell you about the preparations for the event including costumes and meals such as gingered leg of lamb, couscous, crostini, smoked salmon, pears and raspberry tarts.
Richard Huhn, the director of parks and recreation at Grosse Pointe Farms Pier Park on the outskirts of Detroit, said that on holidays the park's 120 picnic tables are always packed and there are never enough small red wagons to help picnickers move their provisions from their cars to the tables.
Judy Hurford, a nurse and resident of Grosse Pointe Farms, plans to be with her family today at Pier Park to celebrate Independence Day. ''For us it's a whole-day event,'' she said, explaining that she, her husband, Richard, who is an attorney, and their 12-year-old son, Patrick, will join several other families from her community for a day of swimming and volleyball and a meal of barbecued chicken, pasta salad and brownies.
''Sure, it's a lot of work,'' Mrs. Hurford said, adding that she does not need a holiday to picnic. ''We could just as easily eat the stuff at home. But we pack it all up and go through the hassle because we enjoy it.''

GRAPHIC: Drawings (pgs. 37 & 40); photos: The Great American Picnic, from the top: a family during the 1930's in the country; Riverside Park overlooking the hudson in Manhattan and picnickers with small wagons provided by Pier Park at Grosse Point Farms, Mich. (Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4); HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS SOCIOLOGY (89%); FAMILY (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HISTORY (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (72%); 

PERSON: LAWSON, CAROL GEORGE ARMELAGOS (61%); JOHN E KELLY (61%); KEITH PENSION (57%); JOHN GILLIS (57%); 



95 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: And Thank God It's Wednesday?

BYLINE: By CAROL LAWSON

 BODY:
FOR many Americans, today is like a firecracker that fizzled in mid air.
A one-day holiday that falls smack in the middle of the work week is a big letdown, to say the least, to a citizenry that has come to view long holiday weekends as an inalienable right.
Never mind that most of the nation's workers can sleep late or go fishing or play with their children, and get paid for it. The disappointment of a midweek holiday is enough to make otherwise mature adults - people who run big businesses, operate on human brains, rock the cradles of the nation's future - act like school children whose recess has suddenly been canceled.
''Wednesday!'' exclaimed Samuel Bishop, a computer programmer in Denver, his voice slashing at the very word like a militant cursor. ''What is the point of Wednesday?'' The point is that when Congress relocated Washington's birthday and most other national holidays to Monday in 1971, it did not tamper with Independence Day. As a result, the Fourth of July is always the fourth of July, whenever that might be. And that has not been a Wednesday since 1984. 
Last year, July 4 conveniently fell on Tuesday, which a great many workers interpreted as cause to take off Monday, as well. Even when the holiday falls on the weekend, most Americans are off from work on the nearest Friday or Monday.
''But Wednesday?'' asked Sandra Gordon, a restaurant manager in Coral Gables, Fla. ''What do you do with Wednesday?''
At least one psychologist has seen the thought of a Wednesday holiday cause an outbreak of anxiety. ''This is all I have heard about for the last two weeks,'' said Dr. Herbert J. Freudenberger, a clinical psychologist in New York. ''Patients feel irritated about not having a long weekend, but they also feel guilty at the thought of taking off Thursday and Friday when others will be in the office: How will it look to the boss?''
But not everyone is intimidated by the boss. ''They all tried to wangle something,'' Barbara Rosenman, a Chicago office manager, said of her staff's often successful attempts to make the holiday somehow grow.
According to a recent survey of 535 companies by the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 95.7 percent planned to close today only. Some workers are going along with that. But others, in New York and elsewhere, have added vacation days to one or both ends of the holiday.
Dr. Robert B. Raiber, a Manhattan dentist who had been hoping for five weekdays to spend windsurfing in Connecticut, closed his office today for only three days. He made that decision in a highly democratic fashion: he polled his patients.
''I didn't know what to do,'' Dr. Raiber said. So, for two days he asked his patients, just before turning on his drill, how they planned to deal with the Fourth of July.
''The majority said they would be away Thursday and Friday,'' said Dr. Raiber, who was not pleased with the results: ''I know a lot of people who are taking the whole week off.''
Pamela Willenz is in that category, having scheduled a vacation for this week. Ms. Willenz, who works in the public affairs department of the American Psychological Association in Washington, is relaxing in a rented beach house.
But even more meaningful to Ms. Willenz is the fact that since a national holiday occurs during her vacation, she will receive credit for one more day of vacation later in the year.
Susy Davidson, who has to go to work tomorrow, is thinking positively: she pretended that last night was Friday. ''On Fridays I go out with friends and don't worry about getting up in the morning,'' said Ms. Davidson, the food editor of Food and Wine magazine. ''Best of all, there will be another Friday at the end of the week.''
A Los Angeles lawyer said he was going to work as usual, even though his firm is officially closed today. ''I can guarantee,'' said the lawyer, who requested anonymity, ''that somebody will be working in nearly every law firm in the country.''
If this year's Independence Day is not ideal for many workers, it is not any better for their bosses. ''A midweek holiday is very disruptive,'' said Martin Lefkowitz, an economist with the United States Chamber of Commerce in Washington. He explained that employers generally view workers as ''less productive'' the day before a holiday. Moreover, absenteeism goes up on the days just before and after a holiday.
The airlines aren't thrilled either. ''Business travel is off, and the holiday travel is not as strong as it could be.'' said Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines.
''If the airline industry had to pick one day for a holiday,'' Mr. Smith added, ''Wednesday would be the last pick.''
Americans will not be similarly inconvenienced again until the year 2001, the next time July 4 falls on Wednesday. Next year the holiday will be on Thursday, which means that it will spill over to Friday for much of the nation. Once again, Americans will let freedom ring in the style to which they are accustomed. Page 39 Page 37 By CAROL LAWSON FOR many Americans, today is like a firecracker that fizzled in mid-air.
A one-day holiday that falls precisely in the middle of the work week is a big letdown, to say the least, to a citizenry that has come to view long holiday weekends as an inalienable right.
Never mind that most of the nation's workers can sleep late or go fishing or play with their children, and be paid for it. The disappointment of a midweek holiday is enough to make otherwise mature adults - people who run big businesses, operate on human brains, rock the cradles of the nation's future - act like schoolchildren whose recess has suddenly been canceled.
''Wednesday!'' exclaimed Samuel Bishop, a computer programmer in Denver, his voice slashing at the very word like a militant cursor. ''What is the point of Wednesday?'' The point is that when Congress relocated Washington's Birthday and most other national holidays to Monday in 1971, it did not tamper with Independence Day. As a result, the Fourth of July is always July 4, whenever that might be. It was last a Wednesday in 1984.
Last year, July 4 conveniently fell on Tuesday, which a great many workers interpreted as cause to take off Monday as well. Even when the holiday falls on the weekend, most Americans are off from work on the nearest Friday or Monday.
''But Wednesday?'' asked Sandra Gordon, a restaurant manager in Coral Gables, Fla. ''What do you do with Wednesday?''
At least one psychologist has seen the thought of a Wednesday holiday cause an outbreak of anxiety. ''This is all I have heard about for the last two weeks,'' said Dr. Herbert J. Freudenberger, a clinical psychologist in New York. ''Patients feel irritated about not having a long weekend, but they also feel guilty at the thought of taking off Thursday and Friday when others will be in the office: How will it look to the boss?''
But not everyone is intimidated by the boss. ''They all tried to wangle something,'' Barbara Rosenman, a Chicago office manager, said of her staff's often successful attempts to make the holiday somehow grow.
According to a recent survey of 535 companies by the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 95.7 percent planned to close today only. Some workers are going along with that. But others, in New York and elsewhere, have added vacation days to one or both ends of the holiday.
Dr. Robert B. Raiber, a Manhattan dentist who had been hoping for five weekdays of wind-surfing in Connecticut, closed his office today for only three days. He made that decision in a highly democratic fashion: he polled his patients.
''I didn't know what to do,'' Dr. Raiber said. So, for two days, he asked his patients, just before turning on his drill, how they planned to spend the Fourth of July.
''The majority said they would be away Thursday and Friday,'' said Dr. Raiber, who was not pleased with the results: ''I know a lot of people who are taking the whole week off.''
Pamela Willenz is in that category, having scheduled a vacation for this week. Ms. Willenz, who works in the public-affairs department of the American Psychological Association in Washington, is relaxing in a rented beach house.
But even more meaningful to Ms. Willenz is the fact that since a national holiday falls during her vacation, she will receive credit for one more day of vacation later in the year.
Susy Davidson, who has only today off from work, is thinking positively: she pretended that last night was Friday. ''On Fridays I go out with friends and don't worry about getting up in the morning,'' said Ms. Davidson, the food editor of Food & Wine magazine. ''Best of all, there will be another Friday at the end of the week.''
A Los Angeles lawyer said he was going to work as usual, even though his firm is officially closed today. ''I can guarantee,'' said the lawyer, who requested anonymity, ''that somebody will be working in nearly every law firm in the country.''
If this year's Independence Day is not ideal for many workers, it is not any better for their bosses. ''A midweek holiday is very disruptive,'' said Martin Lefkowitz, an economist for the United States Chamber of Commerce in Washington. Employers, he said, generally view workers as ''less productive'' the day before a holiday. Moreover, absenteeism goes up on the days just before and after a holiday.
The airlines aren't thrilled either. ''Business travel is off, and the holiday travel is not as strong as it could be.'' said Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines.
''If the airline industry had to pick one day for a holiday,'' Mr. Smith added, ''Wednesday would be the last pick.'' Americans will not be similarly inconvenienced until 2001, the next time July 4 falls on Wednesday. Next year the holiday will be on Thursday, which means that it will spill over to Friday for much of the nation, and once again, Americans will let freedom ring in the style to which they are accustomed.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CLOSINGS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WATER SPORTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: ROBERT B RAIBER (66%); PAMELA WILLENZ (65%); TIM SMITH (58%); SUSY DAVIDSON (56%); 



96 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 39, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: For Poles, Baseball And Rotary Foster American Dreams

BYLINE: By GABRIELLE GLASER

DATELINE: WARSAW, July 3

 BODY:
On Wednesday nights, the Rotarians meet at the Doctor's Club. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, Little League ballplayers practice at a sports field in a Warsaw neighborhood. And on Fridays, the Lions' Club gathers in the dining room of a suburban office building.
It was not so long ago in this country that American products and inventions were pleasures only to be enjoyed in secret. But in Poland today, you can hardly walk down the street without hearing Madonna, bumping into a teen-age skateboarder or seeing a hamburger stand. 
In Western Europe, the United States is often scorned as the international purveyor of fast food and plastic. But to Poles emerging from the drab half-century of Communist rule, the United States remains a dream: a place where the phones work, the stores are full and everyone has the job he wants. And groups like the Little League or the Rotary Club, emblems of small-town Americana, are seen here as important components of the American Dream.
George Bin, a 20-year-old who lives in Warsaw, describes himself as a Mets fanatic, a love that developed when he lived in New York as a child in the mid-70's while his father taught in the New York area for two years. Now the Mets fan coaches the city's 30 Little League players.
''It's American,'' he said, so parents want their children to join in. ''Maybe they think their kids will look like American movie stars if they play, I don't know.''
He went on: ''Americans have pretty nice muscles. Poles don't look so great because we eat a lot of greasy food. They look at themselves and think, 'I don't want my kid to look like me, all flabby.' And they're out there cheering just like any parent in America.''
Of perhaps more significance to Poland's economic future are the business clubs, which planners hope will someday become a hotbed of entrepreneurial spirit.
''What we hope these groups will do is teach people skills we have forgotten, like working efficiently,'' said Mieczyslaw Fudali, a chemist and vice president of one of Warsaw's two Rotary clubs, which are sending 35 young adults hoping to go into business to the West for study and internships later this year.
''Communism robbed us of coping with our own problems,'' he said. ''In Rotary we take affairs into our own hands. We vote on things. We discuss before deciding. It's democratic.''
About 20,000 groups, ranging from book clubs to swimming clubs, have formed since last summer. Talks between Solidarity union leaders and Communist Party officials a year ago led to the legalization of organizations outside the Communist Party, as well as to a new Government in which Solidarity has a part.
''It is natural for people to collectivize, but after 40 years of Communism they are eager to join narrow groups that have a specific goal,'' said Jan Woroniecki, who is another vice president of Rotary in Warsaw.
''One party controlled everything, from shops to schools,'' said Mr. Woroniecki, who is the Polish diplomat who oversees the country's relations with the United Nations. ''Now we are trying to take control of small things. In America this is quite common. You call it 'creative problem-solving.' ''
Mr. Woroniecki said the Rotary club is trying to arrange for Polish nurses, of which there is a surplus in this country, to be temporarily sent to Western European countries or the United States in exchange for modern medical equipment and supplies, which Poland needs badly.
The Lion's Club, founded in Poland a year ago by Andrzej Ziaja, a Polish businessman, has similar overall goals. ''Our members are excited to be doing things for others that can be seen, instead of the state,'' he said.
Poland's ties to the United States are longstanding and well-known. Of the 39 million Poles in the country today, according to Government figures, at least one in three has a relative in the United States.
Many Poles point proudly to Tadeusz Kosciuszko and Kazimierz Pulaski, Polish officers who contributed to the American War of Independence.
Evidence of Polish admiration for the United States is everywhere. At the Warsaw headquarters of LOT, the Polish national airline, customers can get a drink at the O'Hare bar, named after Chicago's international airport, a destination for millions of Poles with family members in that city. At one Pewex, the state-owned hard currency store, a wine stand decorated with American flags and red, white and blue bunting bears the name ''California Wine Saloon'' (though most of the wine sold there comes from New York). Another stand, decorated to look like an old country store, complete with a fake-wood facade, is called ''Old West.'' It sells Snickers candy bars, Marlboro cigarettes and Russian vodka.
''Well,'' shrugged Teresa Mucha, the store's manager, ''people don't buy too much of the Russian vodka, but they do love Marlboros.''
Polish Little League was founded in 1987 by Stanley Kokoszka, a Polish-American from Willimantic, Conn., who started organizing the game here in 1987, after a trip as an educational consultant for the State Department.
''Everywhere there were ragamuffins out doing nothing except selling postcards to tourists,'' said Mr. Kokoszka, who is back in Poland for the summer to work on strengthening the Little League. ''I noticed soccer fields all over the place, but nobody was playing on them. And I thought to myself, wouldn't it be great for these kids to have baseball?''
Mr. Kokoszka proposed Little League teams to Poland's Communist leaders by predicting the growth of baseball worldwide. ''I told them that pretty soon, baseball would be an Olympic sport just like soccer, and that kids would need to know how to play if the Poles wanted to compete. Even Cubans play ball, I told them. That did it. They bought it.''
Now, six cities have leagues. About 300 boys and girls 6 to 12 years old play, Mr. Kokoszka said.
The United States Embassy has a library of American books and magazines. Romana Mrozowska, the chief librarian there, said many of the 140 Poles who visit the library each day see the United States as welcome relief from two of its historical foes, Germany and the Soviet Union.
''I don't think many Poles ever wanted to read 'enemy literature,' '' said Mrs. Mrozowska, who has worked at the library for 30 years. ''The books and language of America have always been special in Poland, even in the worst of times. But now I can't keep things on the shelves.''
John R. Davis Jr., the United States Ambassador to Poland who has been posted in Warsaw for seven years, said much of Poland's attraction to the United States was a result of its economic success and political system.
''Poland is probably the most pro-American country in the world,'' Ambassador Davis said. ''We are big, far away and friendly, something their neighbors haven't always been.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the ''California Wine Saloon'' in a Warsaw state store, Poles can buy American wines for hard currency. (Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (55%); NEW YORK METS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); FAST FOOD (75%); SKATEBOARDING (73%); EXTREME SPORTS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); TRENDS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); 

PERSON: GLASER, GABRIELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



97 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 41, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: DE GUSTIBUS;
An American Takes Aim At Reign of Dry Italian Pasta

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
UNLIKE most foods, when it comes to pasta, fresh is not always better. And with dry, factory-made pasta, imported usually is better than domestic. Until now.
Whether to use fresh or dry pasta depends on the recipe. Some dishes, like those bathed in cream, are best suited to fresh egg noodles, while others, like linguine with clam sauce and other southern Italian specialties, are better with dry pasta. Excellent fresh egg pasta can be made at home or purchased. As for dried pasta, domestic products generally lack the silken feel, uniformly golden color, rich mellow flavor and, once cooked, the proper al dente texture of many imports from Italy, especially from the Abruzzi region.
Coming up with a domestically produced dry pasta as good or better than the finest from Italy was the challenge that tempted Richard Thompson after 12 very successful years in the oil business - crude, not olive. In 1982, he switched to the pasta business, and in late 1988 the spaghetti started rolling out of his American-Italian Pasta Company's new $50 million factory in Excelsior Springs, Mo. 
Mr. Thompson, 38 years old, a native of Colorado Springs, Colo., said he grew up ''eating spaghetti and meatballs about once a month.'' But he became seriously interested in pasta while he was drilling oil wells in North Dakota in the 1970's.
''The land I was exploring for oil was in the middle of the best durum wheat fields in the country,'' he recalled. Semolina, the coarsely ground flour preferred for dry pasta, comes from hard durum wheat. ''At the time I was paying royalties to farmers for the mineral rights, and I went around digging up their fields.
''During the time I was in the business I saw the price of oil go from $10 a barrel to $40 a barrel and decided that it was time to get out,'' he said. ''In trying to figure out what to do next, I kept coming back to those wheat fields and to the idea of pasta.'' Mr. Thompson was convinced it was a good business to be in. Consumption has nearly doubled to 18.5 pounds per person annually since 1975, according to the National Pasta Association, a trade group in Arlington, Va., and is expected to reach 30 pounds per person by the year 2000.
Mr. Thompson spent four years traveling around the country to learn all he could about domestic pasta. ''Then it became evident that I had to go the source and find out why Italian pasta was better,'' he said. He spent the best part of two years in Italy studying the pasta business there.
''I asked the Italians how they would improve their pasta if they could, and they told me that it could be done by hand-selecting the finest durum wheat, milling it yourself and monitoring the production from start to finish.'' The Italians also told him it would be impossible to do that in Italy because wheat purchasing is too centralized. But that type of control is precisely what Mr. Thompson eventually accomplished.
Like a winemaker contracting with grape growers, Mr. Thompson buys the hard spring wheat directly from farmers, mainly in North Dakota, selecting it field by field. Instead of bulldozing their fields, as he did in the oil business, he nows pay them a premium to grow the best wheat.
''We have complete control and can segregate the different kinds of durum wheat, such as hard amber and amber,'' he said. Other pasta manufacturers buy their wheat in bulk at the Minneapolis Grain Exchange, where such selectivity is impossible.
The company has its own rail cars to transport the wheat to Excelsior Springs where it is kept in separate silos, according to type, so that different lots, some with more gluten, others with better flavor or deeper color, can be blended. The plant has its own mill and computerized equipment for utmost consistency.
''We chose Excelsior Springs not only because it is America's heartland and because the air is clean and the water is very pure,'' he said. ''The quality of pasta depends on the raw materials and if you can control those, you make better pasta.'' He pointed out that unlike in Italy many pasta manufacturers in the United States are in large cities, where the air quality and the tap water used to make the pasta are not as good as they should be.
Because of the quality of the ingredients, the company's top-of-the-line pasta, Pasta LaBella, is a deep golden color with a velvety sheen and satin finish, free of roughness and the speckles that result from the impurities in the flour or from poorly mixed dough. And when cooked and drained it is much less sticky than most commercial pasta. It has a distinctively mellow flavor and keeps a deliciously toothsome texture. It's priced at $2.50 a pound, two to three times as much as domestic pastas and more than most Italian brands.
Pasta LaBella is carried by the Kroger chain throughout the Midwest and will eventually be distributed nationally. The company also makes private-label pasta for a number of other supermarkets, including the Master's Choice brand sold at A.&P. and Food Emporium stores. The private-label pasta, priced at no more than $1 a pound, is of a similar high quality. Pasta LaBella will only be sold in specialty food stores or at supermarket deli counters, rather than the regular pasta section. The company also produces all the pastas sold by Sysco, the nation's largest distributor of food service products.
Unlike many brands of domestic pasta, all the pasta produced by the American-Italian Pasta Company consists of 100 percent durum wheat, without any soft wheat flour added. There are no American rules governing the kind of wheat used in making pasta, as there are in Italy.
Soft wheat flour, which is easier to handle and usually used for making fresh egg pasta, makes dry pasta softer, starchier and stickier. It also reduces the cost. Mr. Thompson points out that when pasta boils and foam forms, that is the excess starch rising in the water. ''You see very little of it with my pasta,'' he said, adding that the starchiness is why many American cooks routinely rinse the pasta after cooking.
Even delicate strands of angel hair, which, when drained, often have a maddening tendency to glue themselves into a single mass, stay manageable and separate with Pasta LaBella and Masters Choice brands.
Since 1967, Italian law has required that dry pasta be made with 100 percent durum wheat. But in 1988 the European Economic Community ruled that pasta could be made using soft wheat flour and that Italy had to permit its importing.
''Italian producers screamed about that because it's cheaper pasta and they were afraid of the market being flooded with inexpensive imports,'' said Lucio Caputo, president of the Italian Wine and Food Institute in New York. ''The reality is that no market for such inferior pasta has developed in Italy.'' Dr. Caputo added that Italian manufacturers are now organizing a consortium to monitor quality and affix its label on pasta made according to its standards.
In May, Mr. Thompson decided to show his American pasta to the Italians at Cibus, a major trade exhibition in Parma, Italy. Since then Ugo Carmela, a pasta and bread shop in Parma, has placed an order for 25 cases of his pasta, and the company is negotiating with Despear, a chain of 400 food stores. ''It's definitely an affirmation,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''A newspaper in Milan was outraged at the Italian companies that gave me the information to make it possible.''
While smaller than Borden, Hershey Foods and CPC International, this country's three major pasta producers, Mr. Thompson's company is already the country's largest privately owned pasta manufacturer. By the end of the year production is expected to reach an annual rate of about 160 million pounds of dry pasta in 25 cuts, from the finest angel hair and tiny orzo to thick twists of fusilli and broad ribbons of lasagne. The plant also makes five kinds of noodles, four of them with eggs and one without. Mr. Thompson now eats pasta every day.
The Pasta LaBella brand, which is just becoming available in the New York area, will be sold at Balducci's, 424 Avenue of the Americas at Ninth Street, and the Wainscott Produce Market, Montauk Highway, Wainscott, L.I. It is packed in handsome, clear cellophane bags trimmed in black that have won the Gravure Association of America's award this year as the best-designed food package.
''We decided to go with the plastic package because it sealed the product more securely than a box yet allows the buyer to see it,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''If you have good legs you might as well show them off.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Thompson checking production at his new $50 million pasta plant in Excelsior Springs, Mo. Mr. Thompson's goal is to make dry pasta better than the best Italian brands. (David Hutson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (71%); MISSOURI, USA (70%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PASTA CO (69%); 

SUBJECT: PASTA PASTA & NOODLES (92%); PASTA & NOODLE MFG (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (68%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE; THOMPSON, RICHARD RICHARD THOMPSON (90%); 



98 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
For the first time, oil companies operating in the U.S. are spending more to look for oil abroad than at home, and most of their production and reserves are outside the country, according to a survey by Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm. [Page 43.]
Western Union agreed to sell to A.T.&T. its telex, computer mail and computer data transmission services for $180 million. The deal raises badly needed cash for Western Union and makes A.T.& T. a leader in the growing market for sending messages among computers at different companies and residences. [43.] 
Saks Fifth Avenue's first-half performance has fallen short of its own projections and those of its new owner, a confidential memorandum shows. [43.]
Northwest Airlines is pursuing a possible buyout of Eastern and is scheduled to hold talks with Eastern's union representatives, a union official said. [44.]
Price increases by the Big Three auto makers illustrate the curious logic that governs pricing strategy in Detroit these days, as rebates continue to use up the gains. [44.]
Craig I. Fields will become the No. 2 executive at Microelectronics and Computer Technology and will eventually head the computer industry consortium. He was removed as director of the Defense Department's long-range research agency in April. [44.]
The eagerness of many bankers to restructure RJR Nabisco's debt puts the spotlight on an unusual feature of the leveraged buyout phenomenon: banks that own stakes in their borrowers. [47.]
McDonnell Douglas said it was close to winning a contract to provide the South Korean Government with F-18 fighter jets in a deal valued at about $2.7 billion. [45.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Orders received by the nation's factories climbed a healthy 2.1 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported, but the $5 billion rise was mainly attributed to higher production by auto makers worried about a possible strike this fall. [47.]
 
International
The price of rhodium soared to $7,000 an ounce. Still higher prices are expected for the little-known but environmentally important precious metal. [43.]
 
Business Technology
Horizontal oil drilling, a technique developed in the late 1970's, is just now coming into its own because of improved technology. The payoff could be at least several billion barrels of oil. [46.]
Chips to go - computer chips, that is - have arrived in Silicon Valley. A Santa Clara company will offer custom semiconductor prototypes within hours. [46.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stocks advanced, but with many traders already at the beach, volume was low. The Dow rose 12.37, to 2,911.63, for the fourth straight gain. [48.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose slightly and interest rates dipped at the close of an abbreviated trading session. [54.]
The dollar ended mostly lower in quiet trading, while the pound continued to gain strength. [55.]
Gold futures prices advanced for the fifth straight day in light trading stimulated by South African labor tensions and talk of buying interest from the Middle East. [55.]
 
Today's Column
The earnings gap between those who went to college and those who did not has never been greater. Yet tuition subsidies for all but the poorest are scarce. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [44.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); MICROELECTRONICS & COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY CORP (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); FUTURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); DATA TRANSMISSION (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RHODIUM MARKETS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); MICROPROCESSORS (64%); CURRENCIES (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 



99 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Saks Hasn't Met Its Goals In First Half, Memo Says

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
The first-half performance of Saks Fifth Avenue has fallen short of its own projections and those of its new owner, a confidential memorandum shows.
Saks's profit totaled $26.3 million in the first half, according to Investcorp International, the Mideast financial concern that completed its acquisition of the large fashion retailer on Monday for $1.5 billion. Investcorp had projected profits of $33 million, while the retailer itself had expected $32 million.
The figures, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, are included in a memorandum Investcorp has distributed to banks that participated in the purchase of the 45-store fashion retailer. Profit comparisons with last year are not available. Saks was sold to Investcorp by B.A.T. Industries of London, which also recently sold Marshall Field & Company, the Chicago department store chain, to the Dayton Hudson Corporation. 
In the memo, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, Investcorp paints a dour picture for Saks's 23 stores in New York City, the Middle Atlantic States, the Northeast and the Midwest through 1995. Those sales have been projected ''with a very conservative outlook, given the current economic environment in these regions,'' the memo says. It continues, ''Our assumptions therefore assume zero to slightly negative real growth rates through 1995.''
The disappointing first-half profit and the sober sales expectations raised some question in financial circles yesterday about whether Investcorp may have overpaid. ''The high price Investcorp paid for Saks is typical of the problem of the 1980's, now continuing into the 1990's, that acquisition prices have been disproportionate to the value of the companies bought,'' said Gilbert Harrison, chairman of Financo Inc., a New York merger-and-acquisition specialist.
''Purchasers sometimes become so enthusiastic that they overestimate the growth of the target companies and develop projections that are unattainable.''
Investcorp added in its memo to the banks: ''We are particularly conservative with the New York City main store, which accounted for 22 percent of 1989's sales. Based on comments made by management that the store's performance has been flat so far this year, and given the contraction in the financial services sector, weaker tourism and general economic problems being experienced by the city, we projected only 1.1 percent growth this year and 2 percent in 1991.''
 
Cutback on Expenditures
In capital expenditures, Investcorp said it was planning to reduce outlays sharply over the next five years so that by 1995 expenditures for both new stores and renovations would total $23.2 million, compared with $97.3 million in 1990.
''For our projection purposes, we eliminated all future new stores for which capital commitments have not already been made,'' Investcorp said. ''Our assumption is that new store proposals in the future would have to meet more stringent economic tests than may have been applied by Saks's management in the past.''
The new owners of Saks said that they had cut two renovation projects, delayed a third and reduced other miscellaneous capital expenditures that management had projected. ''As a result,'' they said, ''our projected capital expenditure figures for 1990 through 1994 total $233 million, or $200 million less than management's projections for the comparable period.''
Investcorp told the bankers that Saks under its ownership would have a business plan calling for slow store expansion, a focus on existing stores, lower store operating expenses, reduced corporate overhead and building Saks's ''Folio'' catalogue business. With that strategy, Investcorp said it expected Saks sales to grow from $1.44 billion in 1991 to $1.78 billion in 1995, or from $415 a square foot of selling space to $495 in that period.
Saks's sales in 1989 were $1.24 billion, Investcorp said. The financial concern said it had set conservative projections for the Saks stores on the West Coast, ''based on historical, comparable growth and the fact that it is the home region of Nordstrom, one of the company's strongest competitors.'' It added, ''Nevertheless, Saks is expected to place greater focus on this region from 1990 onwards, resulting in comparatively higher anticipated sales growth.''
But three areas of the most promising growth, Investcorp said, are the Southern and Texas regions for Saks, as well as the ''Folio'' catalogue business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (84%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (56%); BTI (JSE) (56%); BATS (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (84%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; INVESTCORP INTERNATIONAL INC

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; COMPANY REPORTS BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); MERGERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE



100 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 43, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Scarce Metal Hits $7,000 An Ounce

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, July 3

 BODY:
The price of rhodium, a little-known but environmentally important precious metal, soared by $1,000, to a record $7,000 an ounce today, and some analysts expect the metal to climb higher before speculative pressures subside.
A member of the platinum metal group, rhodium is a primary ingredient in automobile catalytic converters - cylindrical ceramic blocks, structured like honeycombs, that are chemically treated and coated with platinum, rhodium and other precious metals. They convert the harmful car exhaust gasses of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons into carbon dioxide, water and nitrogen.
 
Cuts Nitric Oxide Pollution
Rhodium's specific role is to reduce nitric oxide pollution, and as more stringent environmental laws have been passed, the amount of the metal used has grown. About 80 percent of rhodium output is used for making catalytic converters. Chemicals, electronics and glass use the rest. 
The price run-up this year has been attributed to a supply shortage, caused by production problems at a large South African refinery. More recently, stockpiling by nervous industrial users has added to those pressures, the analysts said.
The price of rhodium doubled between the end of 1989 and last week, moving from $1,746 an ounce in December to $3,425 last Wednesday - and then doubled again in just six days to reach today's record.
Growing global pressures for legislation to reduce the level of nitric oxide from car exhausts are expected to keep rhodium demand high, the analysts said. In a tight market, they added, this will keep the price up.
''The metal has no foreseeable substitute, and it is impossible to predict when the bubble is likely to burst,'' said John Taylor, a mining analyst James Capel & Company, a London brokerage. [Gordon Bassett, an analyst with Johnson, Matthey North America Inc. in Philadelphia, cited an ''inflexible'' supply and some short-term production problems as the chief reasons for the run-up. ''But there's been a bit of a snowball effect lately,'' Mr. Bassett said.
''There has been some extra strong buying from Japan, which we think is just inventory building. But that has spilled over into the market and caused something of a panic.'' [Johnson, Matthey North America is a unit of Johnson, Matthey P.L.C., the London concern that is the world's largest rhodium trader.] The current shortfall is accentuated because most of the world's rhodium production of 330,000 ounces a year is committed to long-term contracts between producers and industrial users. Only 30,000 ounces to 60,000 ounces are freely traded, and no futures market exists in the metal.
Despite the price increase, the analysts said automobile buyers need not worry. The amount of rhodium used in catalytic converters is minuscule. ''Even at $7,000 an ounce,'' Mr. Bassett of Johnson, Matthey North America said, ''there is only about $60 worth of rhodium in the average car.''
 
Discovered in 1803
The metal was named by William Hyde Wollaston, an English chemist and physicist who first extracted it in 1803, after the Greek word for rose, ''rhodon,'' because of the rose color of a number of its compounds. But in its pure state, rhodium is spongy and has a silver-white color.
Rhodium began its record-setting ascent last November, when production problems arose at a new refinery owned by Rustenburg Platinum Holdings Ltd. in Bophuthatswana, South Africa. The refinery is managed by Matthey Rustenburg refiners, which is jointly owned by Rustenburg and Johnson, Matthey P.L.C. Rhodium is found within platinum and extracted by a complex process.
Increased output from the South African platinum operations of Lonrho P.L.C., the British conglomerate, is expected to make up most of the shortfall, while Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., another South Africa company, will also benefit, the traders said.
Other producers like the Soviet Union and Canada have not yet been able to fill the gap, because it takes about six months to extract and refine rhodium from the platinum-bearing ore, Mr. Bassett said. Soviet producers, however, are using higher rhodium prices to get agreements on longer-term contracts and increase their hard-currency earnings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JMAT (LSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON MATTHEY PLC (86%); 

SUBJECT: RHODIUM (METAL); PRICES NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); RHODIUM MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PLATINUM GROUP METALS MINING (89%); MISC MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MISC NONFERROUS SMELTING & REFINING (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); FUTURES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); INVENTORIES (74%); CARBON MONOXIDE (71%); 

PERSON: GORDON BASSETT (79%); 



101 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 51, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Oil Activity Has Shifted From U.S.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
For the first time, oil companies operating in the United States are spending more to look for oil abroad than at home, and most of their production and reserves are outside the United States, Arthur Andersen & Company, the accounting firm, said yesterday.
The shift, which happened last year and is intensifying, comes as oil imports have reached nearly 50 percent of United States consumption. With less focus on domestic exploration, imports will continue to rise because oil wells do not pump forever. Domestic production has fallen 17 percent, or 1.8 million barrels a day, since 1986, Arthur Andersen noted, predicting that it would drop an additional 400,000 barrels a day this year. 
Some experts said the study might understate the extent of the decline in the American oil industry. ''We've got only 900 drilling rigs running, and they're not in exploratory regions,'' said Michel T. Halbouty, a geoscientist in Houston. The rigs, he added, were making new wells in existing fields to raise production, not to find new oil.
 
Low Prices Cited
''It's inevitable,'' said Theodore Eck, an economist at the Amoco Corporation. ''There's not much you can do in North America at low oil prices.'' He added that if prices rose, domestic drilling would pick up. But if prices increased sharply, he said, tax differences between this country and others would make drilling here relatively more attractive.
In addition, the United States has many older fields that are known to have substantial amounts of oil, but the oil is difficult to recover and can be pumped only at a higher price.
One new technique, known as horizontal drilling, is just now coming into its own because of improved technology. [Page 46.] Gas Outlays Domestic About 60 percent of Amoco's oil exploration and production budget is spent abroad, Mr. Eck said, although its natural gas expenditures are overwhelmingly domestic.
Domestic drilling and production are declining, oil company executives agree, because the United States is a ''mature'' oil province, much more thoroughly drilled and pumped than the rest of the world, and because some areas have been ruled off limits for environmental reasons, which seldom happens abroad.
In its study, which is conducted annually, Arthur Andersen surveyed 236 oil companies that file disclosure statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nearly all are publicly traded companies that are nominally American-owned, but three are foreign, with trading in this country in American depository receipts, a surrogate for stock. They are the British Petroleum Company. which owns Sohio; Royal Dutch/ Shell, which owns Shell, and Broken Hill Proprietary, an Australian company.
For the last five years that the survey has been conducted, domestic spending in the group has exceeded foreign outlays, but last year, of the $39.2 billion spent, 55.9 percent, or $21.9 billion, was spent abroad. The domestic figure was up by 7 percent from 1988; the foreign figure by 20 percent.
Victor A. Burk, managing director of oil and gas industry services for the accounting company, said that the acceleration of the shift was surprising and that the turn toward investment in foreign exploration was even stronger this year.
 
About 60 Percent of Output
The companies represent about 60 percent of the oil produced in this country, he said; an additional 15 percent is ''royalty oil'' that is paid to the Government or private landholders in exchange for permission to drill, and 25 percent is drilled by private companies or individuals.
Last year the companies surveyed found 52 percent as much oil as they pumped in this country, the highest level since 1985.
Oil industry experts are divided on whether a shift to foreign investment is necessarily bad news.
''It does represent an increase in activity by the United States industry, even though some of it is in other countries,'' said Mr. Burk, of Arthur Andersen. The activity is not only in the oil companies themselves, but also in the companies that manufacture drilling equipment or provide oilfield services, he added. Also, if the major oil companies go abroad to look for oil, that leaves more opportunities for smaller companies to look domestically, he said.
 
Economic Security an Issue
But Mr. Halbouty, the Houston-based geologist, said that as domestic production declined, national economic security became an issue. ''Right now, you don't care about it; you drive up, you get your gasoline, and you move on,'' he said. ''But we're going to find ourselves one of these days in gasoline lines that will make the 1973 debacle look like a Sunday picnic.''
Others say that oil-exporting countries have a much stronger interest in the economic stability of their customers than they did during the embargo in 1973. Several members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, where oil reserves are increasingly concentrated, have invested in refining and marketing operations in this country, for example, and would be hurt if supplies to the United States were limited.
Among the factors that may be important to the pattern of oil investment in the future are the changes in Eastern Europe, experts say. Some of the most promising prospects are in areas that are interested for the first time in the participation of American companies, experts say. This would tend to draw investment away from other areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); BP (NYSE) (58%); BP (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (93%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); AMOCO CORP (68%); BP PLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (64%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



102 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 44, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Rebates Are a Reason for Vehicle Price Increases by Big 3

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 3

 BODY:
With sales sluggish, the Big Three domestic auto makers recently announced midyear price increases, a move that illustrates the curious economic logic that governs the pricing strategy in Detroit these days.
Even though the market for new cars is weak, Ford, General Motors and Chrysler have all opted to entice customers through continued rebates. Extra revenue from price increases is used to offset the costs of cash rebates and discount financing.
''The pricing strategies of the Big Three are largely fictitious,'' said Ronald A. Glantz, an analyst with Dean Witter Securities in San Francisco. ''They raise the price on a vehicle by $50 or $60 one week, and increase the incentive by $100 the next.'' An Inescapable Cycle? In fact, for the Big Three, the cycle appears to have become inescapable. Consumers now seem to require rebates before they will buy. 
On Monday, the General Motors Corporation raised prices between $66 and $165, and increased the destination charge by $10. The Chrysler Corporation's price increases, which also took effect on Monday, range from $60 to $160. Both companies followed the Ford Motor Company's move on June 18 to raise prices between $58 and $134.
The increases on most cars and trucks sold by Ford, G.M. and Chrysler may eke out a little more revenue from a weak market. Raising prices now may also blunt the effect of higher prices when new cars are introduced in the fall, analysts say.
 
Imports Take Same Course
Although higher prices on imported cars probably will not show up until fall, several Japanese and European auto makers have begun offering rebates of their own and have followed - in some cases, even exceeded -the Big Three's price increases.
The cycle of higher prices to offset rebates does not necessarily harm the competitive position of the auto companies, industry experts and economists say, since competitors are doing the same thing. But car dealers say many customers are baffled by the array of rebates and financing incentives.
''Rebates have muddied the waters and made determining the true price of a car incredibly complex,'' said Lance Ealey, an automotive specialist with McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm.
 
Customers Seem Hooked
Chrysler was the first to offer rebates on cars, in the early 70's. The plan was viewed by analysts and competitors as a shrewd marketing move, and other companies soon followed suit. But by the mid-80's, analysts say, customers were hooked and the car companies saw their sales fall off sharply whenever rebates ended.
''The consumer very quickly learns to look for rebates, and it doesn't take long to see demand dry up between one rebate period and the next,'' said James R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the University of Michigan Business School.
Car companies, fearful of losing customers to rivals, are unlikely to break the rebate habit soon.
''Even if auto sales boom next year, we'll still have incentives,'' Mr. Glantz said. ''There are three dozen auto manufacturers out there, and unless they all go cold turkey I don't see how they can give up incentives.''
The manufacturers do have ways to raise revenues without adding significantly to a vehicle's base price. One pricing game Detroit plays involves making popular options standard equipment, which lifts the manufacturer's revenues on a vehicle. Customers are compelled to buy the special packages, while the manufacturers use the base price - minus the equipment - to promote their new models as only slightly more expensive than last year's versions.
As a result of this trend, pursued throughout the 1980's, the least expensive cars now carry significantly more equipment than they used to, and they cost more.
 
Japanese Prices Up, Too
While the American car companies have historically moved first to raise prices, the Japanese have generally followed suit in the last few years, keeping their car prices within one or two percentage points of competing American models. The Toyota Motor Corporation, the Honda Motor Company and the Nissan Motor Company typically limit themselves to lifting prices once a year, usually in the fall when most new models are introduced. Sometimes they delay price increases until the end of the year, seeking the promotional advantage that comes from comparatively low sticker prices in the first months that new models are on sale.
In the past, the Japanese had shown a willingness to limit increases, with the objective of grabbing a larger share of the market. The most notable instance was the mid-1980's, when the value of the Japanese yen rose against the dollar, making goods produced in Japan more expensive in the United States.
 
Opportunity to Gain Share
While the Japanese did raise prices, they resisted pressure to keep up with the strengthening yen, even though their profits suffered.
Some analysts contend that domestic auto makers, by failing to cut their prices then, passed up an opportunity to improve their competitive position.
''The mid-1980's was a unique period in time when the domestic auto makers could have seized a gigantic comparative advantage,'' said Maryann N. Keller, an analyst with Furman Selz Mager Dietz & Birney in New York. ''The opportunity was there to open up a price differential so big that the issue of higher Japanese quality could have been obliterated by the vastly lower price of most American cars.''
 
Oldsmobile Rebates
LANSING, Mich., July 3 (Reuters) - The General Motors Corporation said today that its Oldsmobile division would offer a $1,500 rebate to buyers of 1991 Oldsmobile 88 models in certain areas of the United States. The areas include New York, New England, Washington, Chicago, Minneapolis, St. Louis, San Francisco and Los Angeles. The program runs from Wednesday until Aug. 2. The new incentive is in addition to a rebate of $1,000 on the Cutlass Ciera, $2,500 on the Toronado and $1,000 on the Silhouette mini-van. These incentives are available nationwide through Aug. 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REBATES; PRICES PRICE INCREASES (97%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C



103 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 44, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
College Tuition: A Better Idea?

BYLINE: By Peter Passel

 BODY:
THE problem: The earnings gap between those who went to college and those who did not has never been greater. Yet tuition subsidies for all but the poorest students have become scarcer than Taittinger in Teheran. Loans at market-rate interest are generally available to students who need them. But not surprisingly, the children of financially pressed parents are loath to begin their working lives burdened with tens of thousands of dollars in education debts.
The Economic Policy Institute's solution: self-financing Government loans for anyone who wants one, with repayment linked to future earnings and collections piggybacked on regular income taxes. 
The proposal, written by Barry Bluestone, Alan Clayton-Matthews, John Havens and Howard Young for the liberal Washington policy group and detailed in the summer issue of The American Prospect magazine, is sure to receive a respectful reception across the political spectrum.
As the liberal economists acknowledge, ''income-contingent'' loans for higher education were first suggested by Milton Friedman, the conservative economist. Yale University experimented with the concept in the 1970's. And a version drafted for the Democrats by Robert Reischauer, now the head of the Congressional Budget Office, was hailed as the rare serious idea floated in the know-nothing swamp of the 1988 Presidential campaign.
But the innovative feature of the Economic Policy Institute's proposal - the use of Social Security revenues as the multibillion-dollar source for the revolving tuition loan fund - is bound to meet resistance. Most economists applaud the notion of investing in ''human capital'' to ease the burden of paying for the baby boom generation's retirement, but few politicians seem ready to accept the budgetary consequences of diverting the Social Security surplus to productive uses.
In 1963, say Mr. Bluestone and company, college graduates earned an average of 50 percent more than high school graduates. By 1987 the gap had widened to 80 percent. All told, the economists estimate, a college degree increases the present value of the average individual's lifetime earnings by $500,000.
From this perspective $60,000 to $90,000 in tuition and living expenses looks like an excellent investment, even considering four years' worth of lost earnings. Government grants, subsidized loans and private scholarships pay most of the way for poor students with the drive to excel. But the children of the middle class must often borrow to cover their costs. And many, particularly those contemplating poorly paid work like teaching, are reluctant to leave school yoked to a huge debt.
Mr. Bluestone's Equity Investment in America program would not ease the average burden of college loan debts. But by making the payment rate a percentage of taxable earnings for 25 years, the plan effectively pools the burden of college costs and limits the obligation of the relative losers in the income lottery. A nurse, for example, who borrowed $20,000 and was earning $25,000 a year would pay back about $1,600 annually - much less than a bank would charge. A lawyer, by contrast, who borrowed the same amount but was grossing $50,000 a year would pay twice as much.
Debt collection, the Achilles' heel of current college loan programs, would not be a significant problem. Payment would be calculated on regular income tax forms and regular withholding would apply. Like other tax evaders, those who cheated would face the Internal Revenue Service's wrath.
The stickier issue is where to get the seed capital for the loans. The economists guess that in the year 2010 some nine million students would be using the program and, calculated in 1990 dollars, cumulative liabilities would exceed $600 billion.
It would make economic sense to tap the Social Security trust fund for the cash. A heavy investment in education would, presumably, increase productivity and average wages, making it easier for future generations to pay for the baby boomers' pensions. And the huge sums needed would hardly strain the resources of the trust fund: At its peak, the education debt would represent less than half the assets of the Social Security system. What is more, the self-financing feature of the plan would guarantee that the money would be available when it was really needed for pensions. By the year 2040 the education fund would be in the black.
But economic logic does not necessarily mix well with political logic. Hundreds of billions diverted to education loans would represent hundreds of billions unavailable for deficit reduction - or, for that matter, aircraft carriers or farm subsidies or food stamps. The ultimate question, then, is the one Washington has been ducking since the big Reagan tax cuts: Do elected officials have the will to encourage productive investment at the expense of personal consumption. Anyone taking bets?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN (72%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; CREDIT TUITION FEES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TAX LAW (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); POLITICS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER MILTON FRIEDMAN (55%); 



104 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 47, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Up 2.1% in May

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3

 BODY:
Orders received by the nation's factories climbed a healthy 2.1 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported today, but the $5 billion rise was mainly attributed to higher production by auto makers worried about a possible strike this fall.
While the rise to a seasonally adjusted $240.98 billion confirmed other information showing strength among manufacturing industries, analysts cautioned that it was strongly affected by car manufacturers building up inventories.
''This is likely a buildup in anticipation of a work stoppage in the auto industry,'' said Norman Robertson, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. ''So these numbers may look stronger than they really are.'' 
 
Buildup Seen Continuing
Auto makers are expected to continue building stocks during the summer months in preparation for a possible September strike by the United Automobile Workers union.
The May increase in orders followed a revised 2.1 percent decline in April, instead of an earlier reported 2.3 percent fall.
Excluding transportation equipment, which includes automobiles, factory orders rose by eight-tenths of 1 percent in May after a one-tenth drop in April, the Commerce Department said.
A key component of factory orders, durable goods orders, rose by 4 percent in May after falling 4.1 percent in April. Durables are items like refrigerators and automobiles that are designed to last at least three years.
By contrast, orders for nondurables were unchanged in May after rising by two-tenths of 1 percent in April.
 
Work Week Raised Index
Last week, the Commerce Department said its index of leading indicators, which forecasts the economy's direction six to nine months down the road, was up by eight-tenths of 1 percent in May in a sign that the economy should continue to make gains.
But economists cautioned that the index rose partly because of a longer workweek since Detroit was unwilling to hire new workers with contract negotiations approaching.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said on Monday that the economy expanded for a third straight month in June. The report by the managers, who represent a cross-section of industrial companies, was seen as a sign that a deterioration in manufacturing activity seen late last year and early in 1990 was ending.
Transportation equipment orders jumped by 10.1 percent in May, after a 13.2 percent fall in April. Within that category, orders for aircraft and parts increased by 12.1 percent in May after 27.7 percent fall in April.
Shipments of motor vehicles and parts were up in May by 12.3 percent, after a 6.1 percent April drop. In the case of automobiles, shipments correspond to orders.
The Commerce Department said motor vehicles accounted for about half of the overall gain in May factory orders. Though new-car sales have been weak, manufacturers are expected to build up stocks in order to have products to offer for sale in the event of work stoppages by union employees.
 
Other Categories Cited
Cynthia Latta, senior financial economist with DRI/McGraw Hill Inc. in Lexington, Mass., noted that other categories of products also had order increases. ''The report is dominated by the gain for autos, but not limited to them,'' she said, so it bolsters the purchasing managers' view that the manufacturing sector is in a recovery.
Orders for electrical machinery increased by eight-tenths of 1 percent in May after a 4.4 percent rise in April, while non-electrical machinery orders were up by 3.5 percent after declining by 3.7 percent in April.
Military orders for capital goods, another volatile category, rose by 19.2 percent in May after increasing by 4.8 percent in April. Excluding military orders from both months, total factory orders rose by 1.5 percent in May after decreasing by 2.3 percent in April, the Commerce Department said.

GRAPHIC: Chart of manufacturers total noew orders (source: CommerceDept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WORK WEEK (88%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SHIPMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); STRIKES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); 



105 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 47, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Banks With Stakes in Borrowers Are in Spotlight

BYLINE: By ANISE C. WALLACE

 BODY:
The eagerness shown recently by many bankers to restructure the debt of RJR Nabisco Inc. has put the spotlight on an unusual feature of the leveraged buyout phenomenon: banks that own equity stakes in their borrowers.
A total of 20 banks, including Bankers Trust, Citicorp, First Chicago, Manufacturers Hanover, Security Pacific and Wells Fargo, have invested their own capital in the Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Company buyout fund that bought RJR in 1989.
With RJR now trying to restructure its balance sheets by borrowing money to buy back some bonds and pay off some debt used to finance its $25 billion privatization, some of these banks are in the position of lending money to a company they indirectly own.
 
Growth in Buyout Funds
While such interlocking relationships among bankers and borrowers are thought to stabilize the financial markets in Germany and Japan, they were unheard of in this country until the mid 1980's, when buyout funds grew popular. Such funds take over a company by buying a small equity position with their partners' funds and then borrowing large amounts to buy the rest, using the target company's assets as collateral. Not only have banks lent the funds huge amounts to finance such takeovers, they have also bought shares in the funds themselves, making them part owners of the companies the funds buy. 
Critics say such relationships are potential conflicts of interest. They worry that banks, in an effort to prop up their investments, might throw good money after bad by giving highly leveraged companies in which they own an interest preferential treatment, shutting out other borrowers.
Such a ''closed loop,'' said Robert E. Litan, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, is ''difficult for new companies to crack.''
 
Effect on Productivity
Depriving corporations of credit, these critics say, could ultimately hurt America's competitiveness. ''As a general rule, I don't think it's a positive element for the economy,'' said Samuel L. Hayes, a professor of investment banking at the Harvard Business School. ''A corporate policy that is driven by lenders' preoccupations is not best for productivity.''
But some bankers said this week that these interlocking relationships had not caused them to compromise their lending standards or to jeopardize their capital positions. Several said that their lending and investment decisions were made by two different groups within the bank.
''It's bad business practice to tie one to the other,'' said Gerald Rosenfeld, a managing director of merchant banking at the B.T. Securities Corporation, an affiliate of Bankers Trust that handles equity investments. It has invested in the Kohlberg, Kravis fund, but lending activities are handled by the parent company.
Bankers Trust is one of the lead banks in the syndicate arranging $2.2 billion in fresh loans for RJR. Another banker, who asked not to be identified, said that his bank and others were eagerly joining the syndicate because of their confidence in the company.
 
Federal Guidelines Met
Bankers also point out that their investments in individual companies through buyout funds are within Federal guidelines that prohibit bank companies or their affiliates from owning more than 5 percent of the voting stock of any company or more than 25 percent of the nonvoting stock. Because these investments are not publicly disclosed, it is unknown how much banks have invested in funds.
Through their venture capital arms, banks have invested their own capital - not depositors' funds or trust accounts managed for clients -in smaller funds other than Kohlberg, Kravis. These include those managed by Morgan Stanley & Company and Forstmann Little & Company.
They have been attracted not only by the huge returns of the equity partnerships, but also by the fee income they derive from making loans to the funds for their buyouts. Indeed, in recent years, financial intermediaries like Kohlberg, Kravis have become important customers for banks. $30 Billion in Loans Since Kohlberg, Kravis was formed in 1978, for example, it has borrowed about $30 billion from banks to buy 36 companies. (It also used $24 billion in high-risk, high-yield ''junk bonds.'') As a result, banks have collected at least $350 million in fees for financing these buyouts, estimated Christopher L. Snyder Jr., president of the Loan Pricing Corporation, a research firm in New York.
In 1988 alone, several of the banks that were leaders in lending to highly leveraged companies collected more than $150 million each in such fees, said James M. McCormick, president of the First Manhattan Consulting Group, a consulting firm to banks.
''Without the existence of these intermediaries, there wouldn't have been those tremendous fees,'' Mr. McCormick said.
One banker said yesterday that the chance to earn these fees prompted his institution to invest in the Kohlberg, Kravis buyout fund several years ago. The bank believed investing would help it win some of the lucrative lending business generated by Kohlberg, Kravis transactions.
''It's relationship-building,'' said this banker, who works for one of the biggest lenders to buyouts. ''These are good customers of ours.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); KKR & CO LP (83%); BT SECURITIES CORP (61%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO INC

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT BUYINS & BUYOUTS (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); SYNDICATED LOANS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); 



106 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 48, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 12.37 in Sluggish Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks advanced yesterday for the fourth straight session, but with many traders and investors stretching their Fourth of July holiday, activity continued sluggish and is expected to remain so at least until Monday.
The Dow Jones industrial average, lifted by computerized buying programs, rose by 12.37, to 2,911.63. But volume stood at only 130.1 million shares, down slightly from 130.2 million on Monday. Advancing issues outweighed declining ones, 834 to 650, and 70 stocks reached new highs. 
Birinyi Associates, the Manhattan-based research firm, said that a brief computerized selling program close to 3 P.M. knocked nearly three points off the Dow but that two quick buying programs, including one almost exactly at the 4 P.M. close, raised the Dow by nearly 8.5 points.
 
Dow's Strength Questioned
The analysts argued that with trading thin it was difficult to assess the lasting power of the Dow at current levels, but the blue-chip index now stands less than 25 points from the record 2,935.89 set a month ago.
Maintaining that stocks might be moving higher because bond yields could be moving lower, Peter J. Canelo, investment strategist at Bear, Stearns & Company, said, ''The stock market's been doing better because the bond market's been doing better, and the bond market's been doing better because the indicators of inflation have been coming down.''
Asked about the chances of action from the Federal Reserve Board, he said, ''It's not clear that the Fed's going to move short-term interest rates lower immediately, unless the employment numbers coming out Friday are a lot weaker.''
Mr. Canelo said Bear, Stearns expected no change, which he called ''a pretty soft reading on the economy.''
One reason why the Fed might not take action, he said, is a weak dollar and rising gold prices. ''The dollar has been pretty weak in the past four or five days,'' he said, ''and gold prices are picking up.''
Philip Morris, which is moving heavily into the food business, led the New York Stock Exchange's most-active list, rising by 7/8, to a 52-week high of 48, with 2.6 million shares changing hands. Two weeks ago, it agreed to pay $3.8 billion for 80 percent of Jacobs Suchard, the Swiss coffee and chocolate producer.
General Electric, which rose by 5/8, to 71 1/8, in heavy trading, also set a 52-week high during the day of 71 3/8. Merck, which rose by 5 last week, rose by an additional 1/2, to 87 1/2, and then climbed to a 52-week high, of 88. The stock closed at 87 5/8, up by 5/8. Primerica also reached a 52-week high, of 35 1/2, before closing at 35 1/4, up by 3/4.
But the Dow transports fell by 3.65, to 1,140.51, with AMR down by 1 1/8, to 63, and the American President Companies down by 1 1/4, to 21 1/8, after reaching a new low of 20 3/4.
In the wake of a rise in gold prices, Newmont Gold rose by 1 5/8, to 43 7/8, and Newmont Mining, which owns 90 percent of Newmont Gold, rose by 1 1/2, to 45 1/4. ASA, with big South African interests, rose by 3/4, to 46 3/8.
 
Mentor Graphics Off $4.375
Mentor Graphics, a computer electronics company based in Beaverton, Ore., fell by 4 3/8, to 17 5/8, on nearly 5.7 million shares, leading the active list in the over-the-counter market after forecasting disappointing profits for the second quarter.
Microsoft, the software company with headquarters in Redmond, Wash., fell by 1 3/4, to 72, also in heavy trading on the Nasdaq. Robert Therrien of Paine Webber called the stock ''unattractive.'' He said he expected Apple Computer to win a copyright lawsuit against the company. Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., remained unchanged at 44.
Foremost, which insurers mobile homes and recreational vehicles, fell by 4 1/2, to 25 5/8, reaching a low of 25 1/2, after saying it had ended an unsuccessful six-month search for a buyer.
In other gauges, the Nasdaq composite index fell by 0.28 point, to 461.76. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose by 0.62 point, to 360.16, and the American Stock Exchange's market-value index rose by 0.53 point, to 360.67.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (82%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J PETER J CANELO (59%); 



107 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 54, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Bank Fund and C.D. Yields Are Lower for Fifth Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts were off slightly for the week ended yesterday. It was the fifth consecutive drop.
Of the 10 largest markets in the country, New York, Boston and Washington still offer the highest average yields on bank C.D.'s.
At the Treasury Department's regular weekly bill auction on Monday, interest rates were up slightly from the previous week. The auctions influence what many banks pay on money market accounts and certificates of deposit. The average discount rate for a new three-month bill rose by 4 basis points, to 7.78 percent, while the six-month bill rate increased by 3 basis points, to 7.67 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percantage point. 
 
New York Rates
The weekly survey of New York area banks and savings institutions by The Bank Rate Monitor showed an overall combined average rate decline.
Money market accounts were down the sharpest, to an average 6.39 percent from 6.43 percent, while three-month certificates and six-month certificates were both down a basis point, to 8.02 percent and 8.11 percent, respectively.
Among commerical banks, a money market account was unchanged at 6.34 percent, as was a six-month C.D., at 8.02 percent. A three-month certificate dropped a basis point, to 7.92 percent.
Yields at savings institutions fell more, with a money market account down 8 basis points, to 6.44 percent. Three-month certificates fell a basis point, to 8.12 percent, and six-month certificates dropped 2 basis points, to 8.20 percent.
Among 20 large banks outside the New York market, the average yield for a money market account was down a basis point, to 6.45 percent, while six-month certificates also fell a basis point, to 7.73 percent.
Rates at some of the country's large credit unions were mostly down a basis point. Money market accounts slipped to 6.66 percent. Rates for six-month certificates of deposit were 8.04 percent, one-year rates were 8.21 percent and five-year ones 8.31 percent. Two-and-a-half-year certificates dropped 2 basis points, to 8.26 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: C/D/R/ INC (91%); NEW YORK (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST (MONEY); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (57%); 



108 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 55, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Session Lower As Rise in Pound Continues

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday in quiet pre-holiday trading, while the British pound continued to gain strength on worldwide markets.
Currency dealers attributed the dollar's decline partly to technical factors, as well as sterling's strength. 
Demand for the pound has increased in recent days amid widespread speculation that the currency will enter the European Monetary System's exchange rate mechanism.
In a speech at London's Institute of Economic Affairs on Monday, Karl Otto Pohl, president of the German Bundesbank, said he expected Britain's entry soon.
 
Sterling Is Higher
Sterling rose to $1.7800, from $1.7635, in London, and to $1.7765, from $1.7715 Monday, in New York.
The mark also gained against the dollar. The dollar fell to 1.6509 marks in Europe, from 1.6580, and to 1.6505, from 1.6515 Monday, in New York.
The mark has remained firm in foreign exchange following the monetary union in East and West Germany over the weekend.
In Tokyo, where the trading day begins, the dollar rose to a closing 151.68 Japanese yen, from 151.40 yen Monday. It was quoted at 151.15 yen in London, and at 151.00 yen in New York, up from 150.91.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's quotes, included: 1.3930 Swiss francs, down from 1.3965; 5.5400 French francs, down from 5.5450; 1,211.00 Italian lire, down from 1,212.75, and 1.16245 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16175.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Monday, were: 1.6509 West German marks, down from 1.6580; 1.3930 Swiss francs, down from 1.4030; 5.5400 French francs, down from 5.5635; 1.8578 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8650; 1,210.50 Italian lire, down from 1,217.00, and 1.1622 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1616.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (88%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); BRITISH POUND (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); 



109 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 60, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
For Eastern Europe, U.S. Teachers

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3

 BODY:
At first glance the people queued in front of Pan Am's ticket counter at Dulles International Airport looked like college students headed for a summer biking tour through England or France. A closer look suggested otherwise: their duffel bags bulged with English textbooks and Shakespeare anthologies, and their destination was Budapest.
For the first time, Eastern European governments are opening their classrooms to large numbers of American English instructors, including these 121 Peace Corps volunteers, who left in mid-June for Poland and Hungary. They were the first delegation to Eastern Europe in the Peace Corps's 30-year history. 
''It's a great way to dip our toes into history,'' said Alison Truitt of Denver, a 1989 Stanford University graduate in international relations who is headed for Hungary. ''It will be fascinating to be a witness of the changes in their political, economic and cultural systems.''
These volunteers are not alone in their mission. More than 600 English-language instructors, mostly recent college graduates, are planning to teach in Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and East Germany in the fall.
 
An Explosive Demand
''The demand is exploding,'' said Donna Culpepper, the United States Information Agency's branch chief for academic exchanges in Europe. ''The Eastern European countries would like four or five times the numbers of teachers we can send.''
Most students are traveling as part of privately financed projects, like those sponsored by the American Federation of Teachers' Education for Democracy International program, and the Charter 77 Foundation, a Czechoslovakian human rights group that is sending 80 college students and recent graduates to teach conversational English in Czechoslovakia this summer.
''I'm looking forward to being a firsthand witness to history,'' said John Shea of Arlington, Va., a May graduate of George Washington University who majored in international affairs and who will work in yet another program, Education for Democracy U.S.A., a grass-roots group based in Mobile, Ala., that is sending 300 teachers abroad.
Many others are angling for teaching jobs in Eastern Europe, including 80 graduating seniors from Georgetown University who went to Czechoslovakia last May.
Such efforts have been discouraged by American and Eastern European officials because most countries have their own teacher certification requirements. Opportunities for uncertified and inexperienced people without a plan of action are likely be limited. About half the Georgetown students are still seeking teaching positions.
 
Caution on Having Plan
''Without some sort of plan you are likely to be forgotten or ignored,'' said Helena Fierlinger, a program coordinator for Charter 77 who was born in Czechoslovakia.
Programs like that of the Peace Corps are giving volunteers intensive language and cultural instruction abroad this summer before they begin working in elementary and secondary schools and in teacher training colleges in September. Most teachers will live with families and receive $75 a month, commensurate with local living standards; room and board are paid by the government.
''Despite the pay cut, it seemed like a good idea,'' said Phyllis Stafford, 73 years old, of Indian Harbor Beach, Fla., a widow who taught high school English for 14 years and is the oldest Peace Corps volunteer in Hungary.
She and fellow volunteers loaded their bags with the works of Hemingway, Faulkner and occasionally Kurt Vonnegut.
Many also stuffed their luggage with quintessentially American commodities not readily available in Eastern Europe, like Frisbees and Nerf footballs.
 
Wanted: English Instructors
Peace Corps officials say Eastern Europe's political leaders have pleaded for English instructors.
''Among the emerging democracies, there's a uniform thirst for English language instruction,'' said Paul D. Coverdell, director of the Peace Corps. ''As these countries reach out and engage in the world, they need the English language to close the decades spent without commerce or communications with the West.''
Mr. Coverdell said the English-language training program would eventually expand throughout Central and Eastern Europe. On June 25, the Peace Corps signed an agreement to send 22 volunteers to teach English in Czechoslovakia in the fall. For the future, plans include training in small business development and environmental protection, Mr. Coverdell said .
Meanwhile, six Princeton University students are spending the summer starting student debating leagues in Poland, Hungary, the Soviet Union and Vietnam, among other countries. Their group, Global Student Response, was founded last year; it is devoted to promoting democracy and human rights and is financed with $4,500 from the university.
''Until now, holding a debate was a foreign concept for most Eastern European students,'' said the group's president, Stephen Wunker of Coral Springs, Fla., a Princeton senior majoring in international affairs. ''They haven't had any exposure to these types of democratic traditions.''

GRAPHIC: Photos:Volunteer English-language instructors were given a White House send-off by President Bush before heading to Poland and Hungary. The 121 Peace Corps members were the first to be sent to Eastern Europe. (Associated Press); ''I'm looking forward to being a firsthand witness to history,'' said John Shea, a George Washington University graduate. (Mike Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HUNGARY (94%); FRANCE (92%); ENGLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); POLAND (91%); ROMANIA (79%); BULGARIA (71%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); MOBILE, AL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (91%); PEACE CORPS (93%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (55%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; HUNGARY; POLAND

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (64%); 



110 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Banks Cut Global Business As Rivals Grow

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Once the pacesetters for global expansion in the financial industry, American banks are retreating from foreign markets, losing business and stature to competitors from Europe and Japan.
The reduction in operations abroad is greatest in Europe, despite predictions of an economic boom there. The European economy is expected to expand as the 12 member nations of the European Community drop their trade barriers in 1992 and the economies of Eastern Europe respond to more liberal trade and investment rules.
Yet bankers say they are pulling back because they do not make enough money abroad. ''We will remain in the same 20 European countries we are in now, but the staffing will be leaner,'' said Thompson Swayne, the head of the Chase Manhattan Corporation's corporate finance group on Europe. He said Chase hoped to create specialized teams to handle different projects and still offer a full range of products. 
Whatever the reason for the retreat, the banks' strategy has led legislators, regulators and even some bank executives to worry that American banks will be outgunned even in the United States by larger foreign competitors. Foreign banks already hold 25 percent of the bank loans to businesses in this country.
''It is important that we not be dependent on foreign banks to provide financing for American corporations,'' said Robert L. Clarke, the Comptroller of the Currency and the nation's top regulator for nationally chartered banks.
The danger of declining into a sec-ond-rate banking and financial power is growing, he said, adding, ''We don't have very many banks right now who have as part of their long-term strategic plan the intention of being truly global.''
And Gary Parr, an investment banker at Wasserstein, Perella & Company, said: ''I worry that American banks have become too inward-looking. As the big banks in Europe consolidate, they will reach a size where they will be too big for American banks who are strong in a region of the country but nowhere else.''
American bankers found a gold mine in Europe in the early 1970's. The American practice of calling on corporate customers was novel in Europe, and it brought in a lot of business. But the European market is now vastly more competitive: European banks have adopted American sales techniques, and large corporations have learned to play one bank against another to obtain lower interest rates on loans or to bypass banks altogether and borrow in the securities markets.
 
Difficult Markets
Among smaller European companies, where a bank's profit margins on loans would be fatter, American banks have found it difficult to make headway. For the same reason, foreign banks have a hard time reaching such companies in the United States - the ties between small companies and their local bankers are not easily broken.
While Citibank, J. P. Morgan, BankAmerica and Chase Manhattan continue to operate large foreign networks, the American banking system as a whole is moving away from foreign markets. In addition to Europe, American banks have sharply reduced their presence in Latin America, as the region's economy weakened and many governments piled up huge debts with their foreign bankers.
The largest American banking company, Citicorp, is only the ninth largest in the world, after six Japanese and two French companies. The next largest American company, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, is 32d. Ten years ago, Citicorp was the world's largest banking company, BankAmerica was No. 2 and Chase No. 13, according to IPCA Ltd., a firm in London that analyzes the banking industry.
 
Statistics of Decline
At the end of 1988, 132 of the large American banking companies monitored by the Federal Reserve Board had 849 foreign branches, down from 163 of such banks with 917 branches overseas in 1984. The decline in the foreign assets of American banks has been even sharper, dropping to $275 billion at the end of 1988, a 19.8 percent decline from $343 billion in 1981.
Many bankers say the data for 1989, which are not yet available, will show further declines in branches and foreign assets.
American banks have also suffered steep drops in credit ratings - a serious matter for companies that rely on their financial strength to attract depositors. The Morgan Guaranty Trust Company and the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company of North Carolian are the only American banks that hold a triple A long-term credit rating from Moody's Investors Service, a company that assesses the creditworthiness of companies. Six Japanese banks have the top rating, as do four French, four West German, three Swiss and two British banks.
 
Value of Triple-A Ratings
Having a triple-A credit rating is important in attracting the business of large corporate customers, like companies seeking letters of credit.
With slimmer pickings in foreign markets, many American banks have reduced or ended their operations overseas.
Wells Fargo & Company, the nation's 11th-largest banking company and one of the most profitable in the late 1980's, has eliminated all foreign offices. At one time Wells Fargo had a network of more than 20 offices in South America, Asia and Europe.
The Continental Bank Corporation, based in Chicago, and the Chemical Banking Corporation of New York have sharply cut their European lending business. They now concentrate on foreign exchange and securities trading in London and Frankfurt. Chemical has closed or sold its offices in Paris, Madrid and Milan.
 
Cutbacks at Chase
Among the handful of banks that have maintained large foreign networks, Chase Manhattan remains in 54 countries, but has pulled out of 22 countries in recent years. After cutting its overseas staff by more than 4,000 since 1986, primarily through the sale of banks in Belgium and the Netherlands, Chase last week announced plans for additional staff cuts in its foreign offices.
BankAmerica sold its majority share of Banca d'America e d'Italia in Milan, a profitable unit that was one of the largest consumer banking operations in Europe owned by an American bank. At the time, BankAmerica was in deep trouble from high expenses and bad loans.
Citicorp, the largest American bank holding company, is the only one expanding its international operations in both consumer and corporate banking. Citibank's strategy is to reduce the dominance of the bank's American activities in corporate banking, reducing its vulnerability to downturns in the American economy, and sharing in the rapid growth of countries that are in the early stages of industrial development.
 
Some Lack Resources
Other major American banks may admire Citibank's strategy, but they lack the resources to try it.
In consumer banking, Citicorp has 700 offices in 11 European countries, a more diverse base than any European bank. It is beginning to install automatic teller machines in West Germany, and plans to expand to a 1,000-office European network doing business with 5 percent of the more than 130 million households in Europe, up from its current share of about 3 percent. In Japan, Citibank is the only American bank trying to break into the consumer market, and it recently gained access to a Japanese network of more than 20,000 automatic teller machines.
While American banks try to pare their staffs and concentrate on high-profit deals, like mergers and acquisitions, many banking analysts say the cutbacks will inevitably result in lost business.
''Banks can keep enough staff overseas to bid for different corporate finance deals, but there has to be some business they will lose when they are no longer on the scene to take clients to dinner and build relationships,'' said Ronald Mandle, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 
Not Enough Profit
Richard Simmons, the vice chairman of Chemical Banking, said the large wholesale loans that were the specialty of foreign offices ''did not produce enough profit to compensate for the risk.''
Now that many of Chemical's European offices are closed, the financing of American exports to foreign buyers is more difficult except for the very largest companies, he said. Such business is hard to conduct, Mr. Simmons said, ''if you do not have a someone on the scene who speaks the language and can review the financial statements of an importer.''
John F. McGillicuddy, chairman of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, said recently that large regional banking companies that have prospered by sticking to consumer and small business customers in their home region should begin developing international banking skills.
''If they don't, they will find not only that their growth factor is being restricted, but they will have an increasingly difficult job of maintaining the base of business they have at hand,'' he said.
 
New Regulations Urged
Executives at many of the nation's largest banks see the shrinking size and tarnished image of American banks as proof that the existing system of bank regulation in the United States should be scrapped in favor of something more favorable to American banks.
''You cannot be strong overseas if you are not strong at home,'' said Thomas C. Theobald, the chairman of Continental. To be stronger at home, he said, the American banking system needs a huge dose of consolidation, to eliminate much of the duplicated efforts among banks.
''There can still be lots of small community banks, but there are just too many banks which are large at home, but not big enough to compete overseas,'' Mr. Theobald said. He expects a wave of mergers to reduce the number of large banks by more than a third.
The wisdom of merging large banks to remain competitive internationally has been recognized in many foreign markets. The combination of Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank and Algemene Bank Nederland, the two largest banks in the Netherlands, is one example, as is the announced merger of the two largest banks in Denmark, and recent combinations in Spain.
In Japan, which already has the world's six largest banks, the combination earlier this year of the Mitsui Bank and Taiyo Kobe Bank may be the first of other mergers. Isamu Koike, general manager of the Industrial Bank of Japan's New York branch, said recently that Japan had 155 banks, but ''from our perspective this is still too many banks.'' He added, ''The period of consolidation of the Japanese banking industry is knocking at the door.'' Morgan, J. P. First Wachoviad (wachovia b & t)

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the number of American banks that have branches overseas (source: Federal Reserve) (pg. A1); photo: While the American banking system seems to be moving away from foreign markets, some banks retain large foreign networks, Citibank has about 700 offices, like the one in Madrid, in 11 countries in Europe. (Associated Press for The New York Times); graph of year-end assets of the foreign branches of American banks. (source: Federal Reserve) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (50%); C (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (50%); 

COMPANY: WASSERSTEIN PERELLA & CO (65%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE; JAPAN

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



111 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: ERA OF FREE TRADE TO BEGIN IN BRAZIL

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRASILIA, July 4

 BODY:
Breaking with decades of protectionism, Brazil's new Government has decided to open the nation's economy, the eighth largest in the West, to imports and free trade.
Computers, cars, raw materials and machinery will soon be able to enter the Brazilian market tariff-free, Zelia Cardoso de Mello, the Minister of the Economy, told reporters here today. Tariffs are now as high as 105 percent, but by 1994 they will reach zero for raw materials and 20 percent for most manufactured goods.
The move is the second major shock that Brazil's new President, Fernando Collor de Mello, has administered to the economy. On March 16, the day after taking office, he announced drastic changes that included freezing nearly two-thirds of the money in circulation in an effort to slow inflation, which was running at about 2,000 percent a year. A quick, sharp recession resulted, and prices plummeted. The inflation rate is now down to about 10 percent a month. 
The change on tariffs is intended to combat inflation by using competition to make goods less expensive and to end some monopolies in Brazilian industry.
In a first step last week, Mr. Collor cut tariffs on textiles and reduced requirements that many manufactured goods contain locally made compo-nents. He also ordered that import permits be issued within five days.
''It's fantastic - the consumer goods market here is enormous,'' David B. Atkinson, a representative of the Inter-American Development Bank, said here today.
 
A Striking Change in Policy
The change in policy is striking in Brazil, Latin America's largest market and a nation where industries have flourished for decades in a cocoon of high import barriers. Searching for precedents, Brazil's press has harked back to 1808, when a Portuguese regent fleeing Napoleon's occupation of Iberia declared that Brazil's ports were open to ''friendly nations.''
''The Collor Government moved Brazil from its position as one of the world's most closed economies to a nation with its doors wide open to the first-world economies,'' Brazil's leading newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, said on Monday.
The trade initiative coincides with a wider movement to reduce trade barriers in Latin America.
President Bush, speaking at a gathering of Latin American ambassadors in Washington last week, called for a free trade zone in the hemisphere. Talks are under way between the United States and Mexico for an opening of borders.
On Thursday, Mr. Collor is to visit neighboring Argentina, where he is to call for cutting in half a 10-year period established for creating a regional free trade zone. Brazil's President said recently that he wants a common market in place with Argentina by the time he leaves office in 1995.
On visits to Brazil in recent weeks, United States trade officials have been so impressed by the new Government's commitment to free trade that Washington has dropped a series of restrictions on Brazilian goods. Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, has dropped Brazil from a watch list of potentially unfair traders and has lifted 100 percent punitive duties on a list of Brazilian goods.
 
Plan to Recognize Patents
Smoothing two trade issues of long-term concern to the United States, officials here say they plan to submit bills to Congress by the end of August to recognize pharmaceutical and software patents and to open Brazil gradually to computer imports.
Denouncing the ''senseless nationalism'' of past governments on the computer issue, Miss Cardoso predicted that Brazilian computer companies would enter into joint ventures with foreign companies.
Behind the new drive to open the country to imports is a spreading realization that this nation of 140 million people is falling behind other industrializing countries in growth and productivity.
Brazilians were recently shocked by a study of 10 leading industrial third-world nations by the International Institute for Management Development in Geneva. Ranked by industrial productivity, Brazil placed ninth - ahead of only India.
''The only way to train our business class is to submit them to competition,'' Mr. Collor told Brazilian newspaper editors here on Tuesday.
 
Mixed Results So Far
Brazil's 40-year-old president has had mixed results on other economic fronts since taking office.
By freezing bank accounts holding almost two-thirds of the money supply, Mr. Collor was able to depress demand sharply and bring monthly inflation down from 84 percent in March to 10 percent in June.
But most of the money has leaked back into circulation. One negative legacy is a deep distrust of banks. By one count, savings deposits in Brazilian banks dropped from $41 billion at the time of Mr. Collor's inauguration to $17 billion today.
Skepticism has also grown. In a survey by the DataFolha polling organization, the percentage of respondents rating Mr. Collor's Government ''good or excellent'' had plummeted from 71 percent at the time of the inauguration to 36 percent in late June.
In late June, a separate survey of Sao Paulo business executives, found that only 33 percent believed the ''Collor Plan'' was working.
For Mr. Collor and his young economic team - most of his advisers are in their 30's - progress has come slowly on attacking the root of inflation, the Government deficit.
To date, the President is about halfway toward his goal of cutting the civil service by about 25 percent, or 360,000 people. But the savings will be small until he can win - in the courts or in Congress - relief from laws limiting the dismissal of civil servants and requiring that laid-off civil servants be paid full salaries.
 
Privatization Difficulties
In another area, it is proving more difficult than expected to sell state companies into private hands. Officials recently cut in half a goal to sell 10 state companies by the end of the year.
Congress has thrown up legal roadblocks, and banks and insurance companies are fighting a central bank proposal that would force them to buy certificates that are redeemable only for shares in state companies.
Today, Miss Cardoso scaled back an original estimate of a 2 percent budget surplus this year to 1 percent.
Much of the inflation here is psychological - what Miss Cardoso today called ''the historical memory'' of 10 years with annual inflation over greater than 100 percent.
''Many Brazilian companies do not know how to set prices - they wait for the lead of the Government,'' an American banker in Sao Paulo said on Tuesday. After freezing all prices in March, the Government has freed most goods except for basic food items, vehicle fuel, cigarettes and pharmaceutical drugs.
To break the inflationary psychology further, Mr. Collor also hopes that foreign imports will force Brazilian monopoly producers to keep their prices down.
Miss Cardoso limited her comments today on the foreign debt to one ambiguous statement: ''Under our new view, the foreign debt has stopped being a deciding variable for economic policy, but an adjusting variable.''
In clearer language, the Minister of the Economy last week told the Sao Paulo news magazine Isto E, ''We have decided that the foreign debt impasse will not block the country from modernizing.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: As Brazil's new Government ends decades of protectionism, the port of Rio de Janeiro can be expected to expand to accommodate the resulting increase in imports to the Brazilian market. (Altamiro Nunes for The New York Times); Zelia Cardoso de Mello, Brazil's Minister of the Economy, met reporters yesterday in Brasilia to outline the Government's plan to open the economy to imports. (James Brooke/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (66%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (69%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; CARDOSO DE MELLO, ZELIA (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



112 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
24-NATION GROUP EXPANDS AID PLAN IN EASTERN EUROPE

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, July 4

 BODY:
Foreign ministers from 24 leading industrial nations agreed today to expand their economic aid program for Poland and Hungary to include the emerging East European democracies of Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and East Germany.
The decision did not involve any specific monetary pledges by the so-called Group of 24, which was established a year ago to coordinate aid to Eastern Europe. Rather, the officials agreed to consider aid requests from the four East European countries, assess what technical and financial assistance programs each donor nation is prepared to offer, and then meet again to hammer out a coordinated program of support.
Today's action may have been more important for the political signal it sent than the economic one. 
 
Political Criteria Used
Economic assistance from international institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund has customarily been granted on the basis of purely economic considerations. But the 24 declared that the four East European countries were being aided because they had initiated not only certain minimum free-market economic reforms but also democratic political changes.
The statement said Romania was excluded because of the violent manner in which demonstrations in Bucharest were stifled last month by the Government of President Ion Iliescu.
The Group of 24 includes the 12 members of the European Community, seven other European countries, the United States, Japan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. It was set up to coordinate assistance to Poland and Hungary to help them make the transition from planned economies to the free market.
 
Issue of Aid to Moscow
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said at a news conference that the donors had agreed that for now the problems of the Soviet economy were too great, and its political and economic reforms too slight, for the group as a whole to consider assistance to Moscow.
But in closed sessions, Italy, West Germany and France spoke in favor of immediate economic support to the leadership of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. While Mr. Baker reiterated Washington's opposition, he also said more explicitly than before that the Bush Administration would not oppose any country that wants to aid Moscow now.
Mr. Baker, who represented the United States at the conference today, said five American criteria had been agreed to as conditions for the coordinated economic assistance: adherence to the rule of law, respect for human rights, the introduction of multiparty political systems, the holding of fair and free elections, and the development of market-oriented economies.
''These criteria send a clear message to reformers and old thinkers alike,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Western assistance is designed to support fundamental political and economic reform. Its purpose is not to maintain the status quo or to revert to problems of the past.''
 
Opposes Pentagon View
Two weeks ago Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said the West should not be funneling economic support to Moscow as this would only subsidize the Soviet armed forces. In sharp contrast, Mr. Baker said today, ''If that is something other countries want to do at this point in time, and believe that is the proper course to follow at the time and think that the assistance will be put to good use, it is not our place to try and build opposition to that.''
The total assistance pledged to Poland and Hungary by the donor group now amounts to roughly $14 billion in direct aid, loans, credits, forgiven debts and technical assistance programs, with the United States contributing $938 million of that over the next three years.
The group's aid program is separate from that of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was established by the United States, Japan and the European Community on May 30. With initial capital of $12 billion, the bank's charter stipulates that 60 percent of its credits be channeled to East European private business or state enterprises designated for privatization.
The group that met here today has the same membership as the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, but is not formally affiliated with it.
In December, the Group of 24 agreed in principle to consider expanding aid to other East European countries in addition to Poland and Hungary, provided that their new governments met some minimum democratic and free-market conditions.
Today, Frans Andriessen, vice president of the European Commission and chairman of the conference, said, ''The evolution of the political and economic situation in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia and the German Democratic Republic provides a sufficient basis for the extension to them of coordinated assistance.''
 
Inclusion of East Germany
While it is assumed that the unification of Germany will overtake and make unnecessary any assistance program for East Germany, the foreign ministers felt it was important, for consistency's sake, to acknowledge that democratic reforms had taken place there.
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Europe, is drafting a bill that would provide about $500 million in 1991 for economic assistance to Eastern Europe, including the Soviet Union if the Administration so chose.
Today's decision to expand aid to the four East European countries marked the first tangible expression of the Bush Administration's policy dealing with Eastern Europe on the basis of ''democratic differentiation.'' Under this policy, countries will be granted aid and support to the degree that they undertake reforms and respect human rights.
This explains why Yugoslavia, a nonaligned country that has not undergone fundamental political change, was included in the East European aid program, while Romania, which ousted President Nicolae Ceausescu only to replace him with another less-than-democratic regime, is being excluded.
Mr. Baker noted that Romania had ''not yet met the conditions required for G-24 support,'' adding, . ''The Iliescu regime's complicity with the miners' violent repression of demonstrators, and the arrest of the political opposition, raises serious questions about its commitment to democratic reform and basic human rights.''
 
Bush Sets Terms for Soviet Aid
KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., July 4 (Special to The New York Times) -President Bush said today that a reduction in Soviet military spending like that suggested by Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze could open the door to greater economic aid from the West to Moscow.
Pausing on the 18th hole of a Fourth of July golf game near his vacation retreat, Mr. Bush was asked about the speech by Mr. Shevardnadze on Tuesday in which he said the Soviet Union spends one-fourth of its budget on the military. ''I hope that given the changes in the world, they'll be able to curtail that defense spending some,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And if they do,'' he added, ''I think it would be much easier for the West to give them certain kinds of economic assistance.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign ministers from 24 industrialized countries agreed yesterday to coordinate aid to Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, yugoslavia and East Germany. Foreign Minister Francisco Fernandez-Ordonez of Spain, right, talked with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d in Brussels. (Associated Press) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HUNGARY (94%); GERMANY (94%); POLAND (94%); BULGARIA (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); ROMANIA (92%); BELGIUM (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; HUNGARY; CZECHOSLOVAKIA; BULGARIA; YUGOSLAVIA; EAST GERMANY; POLAND; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); TRENDS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); DICK CHENEY (54%); 



113 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11

 
Economic aid for Eastern Europe may increase. Minister from 24 nations agreed to expand an aid program for Poland and Hungary to include Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and East Germany.
 Page A1

 
The most crucial NATO conference since the alliance was formed 41 years ago begins today. With the Warsaw Pact collapsing and the Soviet Union in turmoil, NATO leaders face recasting their original premise. A8 
 
 
The Communist Party leadership will resign ''of its own accord'' if the Soviet economy has failed to begin rebounding in two years, President Mikhail Gorbachev said. A10

 
In a Soviet Asian oasis, newborns fight for life A10

 
Asylum for Soviet Jews in Sweden has become a difficult issue for Swedes, who are torn by a desire to limit immigration and uncertainty over how to react to the changes in the Soviet Union. A11

 
With capitalism comes garbage. The East is already deploring the trash of the new economic age. As one sanitation worker put it, ''The avalanche has started rolling.'' A8

 
Soviet Army paid in West German marks A9

 
Albania is considering issuing visas to thousands of Albanians in an effort to reduce growing discontent in the nation, Western diplomats said. A10

 
American banks' position abroad is slipping as they retreat from foreign markets. Once the pacesetters for the global financial industry, the banks are losing business to competitors from Europe and Japan. A1
 
A conference on Taiwan's future ended after five days of heated national debate with a call for popular presidential elections. A7

 
A program to open Brazil's economy to imports and free trade has been initiated by the new Government. By 1994, tariffs now as high as 105 percent would be reduced to zero for raw materials and to 20 percent for most manufactured goods. A1

 
President Carlos Salinas of Mexico has exceeded his campaign promise to modernize the Mexican economy, but has failed to convince Mexicans that he will, as promised, usher in an era of true democracy. A6

 
United States policy in Guatemala has increasingly focused on the country's military despite evidence that the Guatemalan Army is responsible for many human rights abuses that are arising once again. A6

 
Liberian rebels' push into Monrovia moved closer to the city center, amid reports that the head of President Samuel Doe's security force has deserted. The Government's collapse appears imminent. A11

 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher met with Nelson Mandela, who said afterward that progress had been made, although they did not agree on the use of economic sanctions and violence in ending apartheid. A3

 
Planning begins on a South African development bank A3

 
Bomb explodes at Afrikaans-language paper in Johannesburg
 A3

 
Kenya reportedly arrests 2 leading foes of one-party rule
 A2

 
Madrid Journal: Spain frets as third-world tide washes in A4

 
National A12-15, B6

 
Cases of insurance fraud are rising, and insurance companies have started extensive campaigns to ferret out offenders. Industry executives say insurers paid an estimated $60 billion for false claims last year. A1

 
Higher reimbursements for Medicaid could force substantial costs on states if hospitals and nursing homes take advantage of a recent Supreme Court decision affirming their right to sue for higher rates. A12

 
Can the effects of aging be reversed? Preliminary results of a clinical trial showed that treatment with a genetically engineered human growth hormone reversed one aspect of the aging process in elderly men. A1

 
$45 million in items missing from U.S. laboratory A15

 
Father wants twins to help brother needing bone marrow A12

 
A Pentagon land-acquisition spree, the largest since World War II, has encountered sharp resistance from Western ranchers and environmentalists. Despite the thaw in the cold war, Pentagon officials say they need more space for training. A1

 
Boston jury convicts Christian Scientists in death of son A12

 
A.C.L.U. appeals ruling barring activists from Barry trial A15

 
Houston is acting like a debutante. The city has converted the act of hosting the Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations into a sort of coming out party - a chance to declare itself reborn after the oil crunch of the 1980's. A14

 
Preparing for the international spot light in the ''war room'' A14

 
Washington Talk: President Bush and the Tennis Cabinet A14

 
Regional B1-4

 
Ambulances are being impeded more than ever by doubled-parked vehicles and motorists who are refusing to yield to sirens and even urgent appeals over loudspeakers. A1

 
A plan for a gas pipeline from Canada to Connecticut and Long Island has reached a critical point: A Federal regulatory agency is to decide in a few weeks whether to approve the $582 million project. B1

 
The Fourth of July is a somber day for some Americans, especially those in veterans' groups. Many of them treat this secular holiday with a quasi-religious fervor. B1

 
On the holiday, events as varied as the U.S. itself B3

 
New York City's architectural firms have been forced by the evaporation of new construction projects to lay off employees, cut their fees, diversify their practices and search for work in other cities and countries. B1
 
Utility rate cuts on Long Island, negotiated under a 1989 settlement between the Long Island Lighting Company and its one million customers, appear likely to finally take effect following a recent Federal Court of Appeals ruling. B3

 
Black churches are recruiting men, especially those from 20 to 60 years old, who have become alienated from or disillusioned by religious institutions. B2

 
Moore retires as president of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden B4

 
Business Digest D1

 
The Home Section

 
An architect devoted to restoration C1

 
Gardener's World: Lilies C1

 
Nannies hail one of their own C1

 
Close to Home C2

 
Currents C3

 
Home Improvement C4

 
Parent and Child C8

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
British writers in vanguard C11

 
Stephen Lang's characters C11

 
Russian playwrights discuss union C12

 
Music: ''Soundstair'' C13

 
Dance: American Dance Festival C11

 
Word and Image: ''That Place in Minnesota'' C15

 
Health Page B7

 
Researchers find that sperm count falls in the summer
 
Toxic shock syndrome off sharply in the U.S.
 
Personal Health
 
Sports

 
Baseball: Mets beat Astros D11

 
Royals rout Yanks, 13-6 D13

 
Column: Vecsey on soccer D11

 
Horse Racing: Easy Goer wins D12

 
Soccer: West Germany in final D11

 
Tennis: Lendl and Becker gain D11

 
Obituaries B5

 
Herman Goldfarb, executive helped crime inquiry
 
Karl Allison, director of planning for the Spoleto Festival U.S.A.
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A16

 
A ''last resort'' for NATO
 
Court warrants for stings
 
Target practice, public money
 
City Council passes a tax test
 
Letters A16

 
A. M. Rosenthal: End of the party A17

 
Tom Wicker: A chilling prospect A17

 
Graham Allison: Should the West bail out Gorbachev? Yes A17

 
Judy Shelton: Aiding Gorbachev would put Moscow on welfare
 A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (93%); GERMANY (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); POLAND (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BULGARIA (89%); SPAIN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); KENYA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (70%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (57%); 



114 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Planning Is Begun on South Africa Aid Bank

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela and the Rockefeller Foundation have begun to plan the creation of a South African development bank to change the country's white-dominated economy through foreign investment.
The development bank - an idea broached by the Rockefeller Foundation's president, Peter Goldmark, at a meeting with Mr. Mandela and American business executives in New York last month - would begin operations should a peaceful agreement be reached to establish a democratic government in South Africa.
It would be modeled along the lines of the World Bank and the new Bank for European Reconstruction and Development, which is aiding post-Communist Eastern Europe. 
 
'Talking About Billions'
''The germ of an idea has now at least become a seedling,'' Mr. Goldmark said yesterday in a telephone interview. ''The idea is to design it, establish it and then activate it when a democratic South African Government is in place.''
Mr. Goldmark and Frank E. Ferrari, the senior vice president of the African-American Institute, a private group that supports stronger ties between Africa and the United States, flew to London on Monday to meet with Mr. Mandela, at his request. Mr. Mandela had been taken with the proposal when Mr. Goldmark raised it at the meeting last month in the World Trade Center.
A core working group composed of Thabo Mbeki, the African National Congress foreign secretary, and Thomas Nkobi, the party's treasurer, and Mr. Goldmark has been set up to work on the proposal. Mr. Goldmark said the Rockefeller Foundation would provide technical assistance.
Money would come both from national governments and from the private sector, said Mr. Goldmark, who said ''a lot of people got in touch with me'' after he raised the bank proposal at the World Trade Center meeting.
''In order to make an impact, we'd have to be talking about billions,'' Mr. Goldmark said when asked about the scale of the project.
''The key to this vehicle would be investment for the sake of economic growth and investment to create a more equitable economy,'' he said.
Added to the popular acclaim Mr. Mandela received during his American tour, the proposal for a development bank would appear to bolster his political capital in negotiations with the white South African Government of President F. W. de Klerk.
Mr. Mandela has had a number of meetings with South African and American business executives, in part to allay fears that a future government would nationalize much of the economy. Mr. Mandela has insisted that the country's wealth must be divided more equitably, but he has also said, as he did at the World Trade Center meeting, that the A.N.C. has ''no blueprint'' for how this is to be done.
 
'Encourage Human Development'
Mr. Mandela has also said that less than 10 corporate conglomorates control 90 percent of the shares on the Johannesburg stock market and that more than 80 percent of South Africa's land is in white hands. He has said such ''excessive concentration of wealth'' on the part of a few must be redressed.
Mr. Goldmark said yesterday that reports indicated that per-capita white income was on the order of $10,000 a year while black per-capita income was less than $1,000.
Mr. Goldmark said the development bank could help build South Africa's infrastructure, providing, for instance, roads that would then improve the economy as a whole. The bank's investments could ''encourage human development,'' he said.
''Much more work has to be done, but the start is there,'' said Mr. Ferrari of the African-American Institute. ''Everything is contingent on a political settlement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (58%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (84%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (84%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); AFRICAN-AMERICAN INSTITUTE (55%); AFRICAN-AMERICAN INSTITUTE (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEVELOPMENT BANKS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%); 



115 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Amid Praise, Mexican Chief Draws Fire on Rights

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 1

 BODY:
As a candidate for President in 1988, Carlos Salinas de Gortari promised that he would modernize the Mexican economy and usher in an era of true democracy.
A quarter of the way through his six-year term, Mr. Salinas has more than exceeded expectations on the first count but has yet to convince Mexicans that he is sincere about the second.
Mr. Salinas continues to draw praise abroad and at home as a visionary boldly restructuring the ailing Mexican economy and willing to negotiate a free trade agreement with the United States. But he and the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, are facing a growing chorus of complaints about electoral fraud, human rights violations, intimidation of critics of the Government, unpunished police abuses and a generally imperious governing style.
Mr. Salinas's approach was described by a Mexican historian a few months ago as ''perestroika without glasnost,'' and the phrase instantly entered the political lexicon here. 
 
Ruled Since 1929
In his defense, supporters of Mr. Salinas say no Mexican president in modern times has done more to open up the country's political system. Still, the comparison to the Soviet Union is not accidental. Like President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Mr. Salinas faces the task of dismantling a political apparatus, born of a violent revolution, that makes virtually no distinction between the party and the state.
The PRI has ruled Mexico without interruption since 1929, and until last year had never been forced to acknowledge defeat in a gubernatorial election. Party bosses like 90-year-old Fidel Velazquez, a former milkman who has run the Mexican Labor Federation for more than 50 years, have prospered under the status quo and do not welcome the sweeping political and economic changes their 42-year-old President has proposed.
Indeed, it appears to have been much easier for Mr. Salinas to offer limited concessions to the opposition than to tackle the comprehensive reform of his own party.
''I definitely believe that the Government and the PRI are not willing to undertake a democratic reform because they are afraid of losing power,'' said Rodolfo Gonzalez Guevara, leader of the Critical Current, a small but outspoken dissident faction within the governing party. ''The PRI needs to change, but it cannot, because it is not an independent political party. It is registered as a political party, but it is run like a government agency.''
 
Government-Paid Campaign
Despite Mr. Salinas's declaration that ''the era of virtually one party rule is over,'' for instance, the opposition state government in Baja California Norte has made public documents showing that the PRI received $10 million from the Government to pay for its campaign.
Mr. Salinas has also forced three state governors to resign, a display of executive authority unmatched since 1947. To political analysts here, one of the implications of the action was that despite the President's repeated calls for ''transparent'' elections, PRI leaders who cannot deliver the vote will suffer the consequences, since all three men headed states which voted overwhelmingly for the opposition in the 1988 presidential election.
Barely a month after taking office in December 1988, the President won praise by sending in the army to arrest the corrupt head of the Oil Workers' Union and also forcing the resignation of his equally disliked counterpart at the powerful Teachers' Union. But Wayne Cornelius of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego, argues that in both cases ''these bosses have been replaced by more servile leaders who lack credibility and a broad base of personal support among the union membership.''
Other union leaders who stand in the way of Mr. Salinas's economic modernization program have been visited by members of his Cabinet and informed that their names do not appear on the registry of taxpayers. According to Mexican officials and foreign diplomats here, these labor bosses have been told they can either quietly go into retirement, in which case their large outstanding tax obligations will be forgiven, or stay on and face criminal charges.
 
'Decision-Making Style'
''Whatever accomplishments Salinas has engineered in support of political modernization, his decision-making style contradicts his own definition of political modernization,'' said Roderic A. Camp, author of ''Intellectuals and the State in 20th Century Mexico'' and a leading American expert on Mexican politics. ''His decision to use executive authority, sometimes with military force, raises the significant question of whether or not Salinas is sacrificing the ends for the means.''
The central issue of Mexican politics, though, continues to be the integrity of the vote and the willingness of the Government to abide by expressions of the popular will. Nearly every major state and local election held since Mr. Salinas took office has been marred by charges of vote fraud, leading opposition parties to conclude that Mr. Salinas is intent on preserving the privileges the PRI has enjoyed.
''When one talks of reforming the PRI, that includes electoral reform,'' said Mr. Gonzalez Guevara, a veteran party functionary. ''The PRI has spent 60 years in power because it controls the elections.''
To many of Mr. Salinas's critics, the seeming contradiction between his image as an economic reformer and his apparent reluctance to crack down on political skullduggery by the PRI has a simple explanation. Though he has brought down tariffs, sold off money-losing state companies, liberalized foreign investment rules and renegotiated the foreign debt, the economic benefits of those actions have yet to trickle down to the party's traditional constituency of peasants and workers, whose increasing dissatisfaction with the Salinas program would normally find expression at the ballot box.
 
Reservations on Business
''If the PRI follows its current economic line, which I think it is going to do because it is the President's economic project, it is going to be very difficult to win clean elections and for workers to vote for the party,'' Mr. Gonzalez Guevara argued.
Others within the PRI have reservations about Mr. Salinas's courtship of the the business class. Even former President Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado, who handpicked Mr. Salinas as his successor, was recently moved to sound a cautionary note. ''We cannot have a blind faith in the market, in private enterprise and in businessmen as regards distribution of wealth and social justice,'' Mr. de la Madrid said in May.
But Mr. Salinas can afford to ignore such carping because public opinion polls indicate that he is vastly more popular than the party he heads. Though disputed official returns showed him winning only 50.7 percent of the vote in the 1988 election, Mr. Salinas's approval rating since taking office has run well above 70 percent. The PRI, in contrast, has the confidence of less than one-third of the population, and often ranks with the police as the institution most disliked by Mexicans.
One Mexican political analyst likens Mr. Salinas to ''a vampire, sucking the life out of the party'' and growing stronger as the PRI grows weaker. The country is rife with rumors that Mr. Salinas intends to extinguish the PRI. Under this scenario, the PRI would be renamed the National Solidarity Party, in the process gaining a new image and structure that would leave little role for the ''dinosaurs'' who oppose Mr. Salinas's economic program and have blocked his efforts to groom young ''modernist'' candidates for next year's crucial mid-term elections.
 
An Internal Debate
This internal debate may be resolved as early as September, when the party's 14th national assembly is expected to implement many of Mr. Salinas's reforms. Asked if the PRI will remain the PRI after the party congress, Mr. Salinas was noncommittal.
''The PRI will be what the PRI decides,'' he declared. The party, he added, ''is engaged in a process of dialogue and transformation that is not easy for it; however, this process is as indispensable as it is inevitable.''
''If the PRI wants to remain in power democratically,'' he continued, ''it must change and adjust itself to the new circumstance of competition.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who has succeeded in modernizing the economy but has not yet convinced Mexicans he will strive for true democracy. (Paul Conklin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SALINAS, CA, USA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRENDS (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (55%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 



116 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Talks in Taiwan Urge a Popular Presidential Vote

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, July 4

 BODY:
After five days of strenuous national debate, a national conference on this island's future concluded today with a call for popular presidential elections.
The endorsement of popular elections by the 150 delegates seemed to give a considerable lift to proposals that would restructure Taiwan's political system along much more democratic lines in coming years. President Lee Teng-hui had chosen all the delegates and given them a mandate to grapple with the intensely emotional question of Taiwan's future.
It was the first time that the Government and its opponents had openly discussed on a public stage some critical questions about Taiwan's future. They included: Should the nation revise its Constitution or draw up a completely new one? Should the Government adopt a presidential or parliamentary system? How should the 20 million people on Taiwan build economic links with 1.1 billion Chinese on the mainland? 
''This is a fantastic thing,'' said Kang Ning-hsiang, a prominent member of the Democratic Progressive Party, the opposition group. ''To bring all these people together to talk about our future is the greatest political event.''
With bells ringing every so often to signal the end of a speaker's floor time, delegates stood up one by one on podiums to state their views on various issues. The conference delegates included a student, a Mongolian, a Tibetan, a handful of previously jailed dissidents, and Chinese scholars from the United States.
The conference has no legal authority, and so it is not clear how their conclusions will be carried out.
''Everyone feels a little funny,'' said Jaw Shau-kong, a legislator from the governing Nationalist Party and a delegate to the conference. ''This is outside the legal system.''
The agreement on popular presidential elections was the most important decision at the conference. Currently, the President is elected through the National Assembly, an electoral college that is made up mostly of elderly men, who purport to represent constituencies on mainland China.
 
Charter Revision Proposed
While they agreed on presidential elections, delegates were divided on whether citizens should elect the President through an electoral college or bypass that step and hold direct elections.
The delegates also debated ways to restructure the island's legislature, which has passed only one minor law in its current session, which ends in a few weeks. President Lee and other Nationalist leaders have indicated that Taiwan needs a constitutional overhaul, but that that may not be easy to achieve.
In one move that will make Parliament more democratic, Taiwan's highest court ruled recently that those aging legislators - unelected in decades - must resign by the end of next year. Opposition members want an earlier deadline.
President Lee said in March that he would revoke within about a year the Government's 40-year-old declaration of ''Communist rebellion'' on mainland China. Changing that condition, which vests the President with special powers, would require altering Taiwan's Constitution, and there was no consensus on how to revise it.
The opposition party is demanding that the Government scrap the Constitution and write a new one. And while the party's voice has been more influential than its 30,000 membership would suggest, it is not clear that it has much support on this issue.
Still, delegates agreed that constitutional changes are inevitable and some hoped the conference would deepen the sense of urgency.
''We can keep the momentum of reform, and not just of the Constitution,'' said Ma Ying-jeou, a Nationalist Party delegate and Cabinet-level official. ''The party structure has to be democratized to cope with new constitutional democracy.''
Probably the most delicate and emotional issue of the conference focused on Taiwan's policy toward mainland China. During the last couple of years, relations between China and Taiwan have warmed dramatically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (96%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONALIST PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; LEE TENG-HUI (PRES) WENDELL P WEEKS (51%); WENDELL P WEEKS (51%); 



117 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
NATO Leaders Gather, In Search of a Purpose

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 4

 BODY:
When President Bush and the 15 other leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization gather in the palace of Lancaster House on Thursday morning, they will begin the most crucial summit meeting since the alliance came into being 41 years ago.
NATO, formed at the height of the cold war to reassure the weakened nations of Western Europe that the United States would stand firm with them against intimidation or attack from the Soviet Union, has lost its original premise.
The Soviet Union is grappling with an economy in chaos and a political system in turmoil; the Warsaw Pact, set up as Stalin's answer to NATO, is collapsing; and the former Eastern European satellites are edging into a more Western orbit.
East and West Germany, divided along the front lines of East-West confrontation, united economically last Sunday and plan to unite politically after all-German elections on Dec. 2.
 
Preserving Peace and Stability
So over the next two days, the NATO leaders have set themselves the task of transforming their alliance, reassuring the Soviet Union, and each other, that a united Germany will not endanger the peace and stability that prevailed during the four decades of its division. 
Mr. Bush will be among the last to arrive on Thursday morning, a few hours before the meetings start. According to diplomats involved in the preparations, he and the others will agree formally to abandon the NATO strategy of ''forward defense'' that positions American and German forces against possible Soviet attack from East Germany, because neither the threat nor the forces to resist it have their former strength.
They will try to leave NATO's reliance on nuclear deterrence of attack intact, but less threatening than the strategy of ''flexible response'' that has been in effect since 1967. According to American diplomats, they may agree to let President Bush invite President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to address a high-level NATO council meeting in Brussels this year or next.
And they will try to lay down guidelines for a new Atlantic charter that they hope will be as lasting and effective as the North Atlantic Treaty that Ernest Bevin, Dean Acheson, Robert Schuman and other leaders signed on April 4, 1949, to reassure a tense and frightened Western world.
 
A Change in Purpose
NATO will describe itself as no longer a defensive military alliance but a political organization engaged in building East-West structures of peace, diplomats say, building on Article 2 of the 1949 treaty pledging the signatories to ''the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations.''
Now, as four decades ago, the allies will look to the United States to help insure their security in the new European era that dawns after German unification, once its terms are agreed upon between the Germans and the United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union and discussed in Paris at the 35-nation summit meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in November.
But this time, the Soviet Union is also looking to the alliance for reassurance that NATO is prepared to let Moscow prove that it can become a partner in European security instead of the main military and nuclear threat against it.
 
German NATO Membership
Soviet leaders say the security conference framework is the best way to do this, and both European and American diplomats say that NATO will make a large gesture toward it in the communique, partly because of pressure from West Germany and its closest European ally, France. West German officials believe that whether the Soviets finally drop their objections to letting a united Germany belong to NATO will depend significantly on what the allies say to the world here when they end the summit talks at mid-day on Friday.
On its eve, President Bush proposed a NATO declaration that the alliance would use nuclear weapons only as a last resort. Some in Britain and France fear that such a pledge would weaken the alliance's nuclear deterrence at a time when the Soviet Union, however distracted, is still the largest nuclear military power in Europe.
But the European allies have already welcomed Mr. Bush's announcement, also in the letter, that American short-range nuclear artillery shells will be withdrawn from West Germany, since they will no longer have targets once Soviet forces withdraw from East Germany.
The West Germans are proposing that the 16 NATO countries, together or separately, pledge non-aggression with the seven Warsaw Pact countries.
 
Warsaw Pact's Future
The main objection to a joint NATO-Warsaw Pact declaration, for instance, is that NATO should not tie itself too closely to the Warsaw Pact because that alliance is clearly already dead.
''There's a difference between a deathbed marriage and a marriage to a dead person,'' said Francois Heisbourg, director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, noting that Hungary's newly elected parliament voted a week ago, 232 to 0, to leave the Warsaw Pact by the end of 1991 because it has no reason to exist.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's reservations about declaring that nuclear arms are weapons of last resort stem from her belief that such a pledge would weaken their deterrent effect, her advisers say.
One of Mrs. Thatcher's aides said this week that when she saw Mr. Gorbachev in Moscow last month, he backed off his earlier calls to eliminate all nuclear weapons from Europe and agreed that small numbers of them on both sides could play a stabilizing role.
''It would be better,'' this adviser said, ''to have a declaration pledging to negotiate the numbers of short-range nuclear weapons down to the lowest possible level, as quickly as possible.''
In May, the United States said it would be prepared to open such negotiations with Moscow as soon as an agreement had been reached on reduction of United States and Soviet conventional forces in Europe, the subject of negotiations in Vienna.
But there are other worries that will be in the background as the allied leaders confer, dine with Queen Elizabeth II in the glitter of Buckingham Palace on Thursday night and hammer out their declaration of purpose in Lancaster House on Friday morning.
They worry about the United States. If Washington and Moscow agree on troop reductions in Vienna, the Soviets will come down to only 195,000 soldiers stationed in Poland and East Germany, with considerable pressure to withdraw all or most of those soon after German unification. Will the United States be prepared to keep 225,000 troops here after that?
 
Size of German Army
And they worry about West Germany, which some of its allies fear is already going ''soft'' on defense. Preparing for the NATO summit meeting, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Cabinet argued but could not agree on how much to reduce the size of the future all-German army - from the present West German level of more than 400,000 to 300,000, or closer to 250,000, as the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, recently suggested, according to one NATO diplomat.
Mr. Kohl has been pressing for a Western commitment to offer the Soviet Union economic and financial aid to rebuild its economy, but he is now expected to make his big push on that next Monday and Tuesday, when he, Mr. Bush and other leaders of the world's seven largest industrial democracies meet in Houston.
''What we really are concerned about,'' one NATO official said, ''is whether the Germans will tolerate any foreign forces at all after they get unification. If they then move to kick out the British, Belgian, French, Dutch and American forces, and they might, then we have no alliance at all, and the European Community would be torn apart.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (96%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (70%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



118 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: LIBERIAN OFFICER IS SAID TO DESERT

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 4

 BODY:
The chief of President Samuel K. Doe's personal security force deserted today as Liberian rebel forces fired captured artillery and mortars at Government positions and inched closer to the center of Monrovia, the capital, United States officials said.
The officials monitoring cable traffic on the Liberian situation from Washington said that the official, Gen. Charles Julue, commander of the 800-member Executive Mansion Guard, had reportedly fled by land, arriving in neighboring Sierra Leone. They said that once his departure becomes widely known to the rank and file in the struggling Liberian Army, the Government would probably collapse.
A senior State Department official said General Julue's defection ''is a sign that the will to resist is crumbling.'' A second State Department official said the end of the seven-month civil war seems near. 
President Doe met today with the American Ambassador, Peter De Vos, at the presidential mansion to discuss the crisis and an American offer to take him out of the country. An American official said Mr. Doe had neither refused nor accepted the offer.
 
An Offer of Asylum
Togo has privately offered Mr. Doe asylum. The United States has not offered him refuge, primarily because it has an extradition treaty with Liberia.
The American officials speculated that General Julue left his post because as the prospect of a rebel victory grew, so did the chances of his being killed by the rebels for his leadership of attacks on members of the Gio ethnic group following a failed 1985 coup against President Doe.
The rebel forces, led by Charles Taylor, have held General Julue responsible for the deaths of hundreds of people, a State Department official said.
The civil war has been fought along ethnic lines, with Government forces dominated by members of the Krahn and Mandingo tribes, and Mr. Taylor's forces consisting mainly of members of the Gio and Mano ethnic groups. General Julue and most of his palace guard are Krahns, as is President Doe, who was said to remain in the palace, only three miles from the fighting.
 
Divisions in Rebel Ranks
The officials in Washington also reported that even as the rebels gain ground, divisions in their ranks were appearing. Prince Johnson, a former rebel commander, holds a vital iron mine 50 miles north of Monrovia with 200 guerrillas and says he opposes both Mr. Doe and Mr. Taylor.
Reports of the fighting from Monrovia remain skimpy because local telephone and telex lines have been cut.
Herman J. Cohen, the Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, said his reports from the United States Embassy in Monrovia indicate that the guerrillas had captured a multiple rocket launcher and were deploying the weapon along with mortars in an attack on Elwa Junction, one of two routes onto the peninsula on which downtown Monrovia is situated.
There was also heavy fighting reported in the eastern suburb of Paynesville, the western suburb of Brewerville, on both sides of the St. Paul River Bridge, and on the Ring Road freeway on the outskirts of the capital.
 
'Only a 10-Minute Drive'
Mr. Cohen said President Doe has still not responded to American offers to help him leave the country safely. ''He can send a messenger to our embassy any time with his answer. It is only a 10-minute drive,'' he added.
The United States Government is backing a mediation effort sponsored by the Economic Community of West African States, which has called for peace negotiations and the installation of an interim Government excluding both Mr. Doe and Mr. Taylor. The proposed interim Government would lead the country until national elections.
Mr. Doe has refused to step down, although he has agreed not to seek re-election.
While Pentagon officials have quietly spoken in favor of Mr. Taylor, the State Department has insisted that it favors neither side in the Liberian conflict. The Administration has long complained about human rights abuse and corruption under the Doe Government, but it has also expressed concern about Mr. Taylor, whose forces it says have received aid and training from Libya.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Samuel K. Doe of Liberia. The head of his personal security force reportedly deserted yesterday, bringing his Government closer to collapse. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LIBERIA (95%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); TOGO (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (88%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA; MONROVIA (LIBERIA)

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES WAR & CONFLICT (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); COUPS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); ETHNICITY (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); EXTRADITION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); IRON MINING (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; JULUE, CHARLES (GEN); DOE, SAMUEL K (PRES) SAMUEL K DOE (96%); CHARLES TAYLOR (89%); CHARLES JULUE (79%); 



119 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: Houston Ballyhoos Its Rebirth, Again

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 4

 BODY:
For Mayor Kathryn Whitmire, the Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations, to be held here next week, is ''probably the biggest thing to happen in Houston since the Johnson Space Center came to town.''
For Henry de La Garza, president of his own public relations concern, the summit conference is ''magic, simply magic.''
For Ben F. Love, retired chairman of Texas Commerce Bancshares Inc., the city's biggest financial institution, it is ''an opportunity to tell the world we survived our economic problems and that we have a lot to show for it now.''
This city of booms, busts and unbridled boosterism has converted the act of staging the conference into a rite of passage. Like most of the 15 previous such meetings, the one that begins here Monday may prove to be a footnote or less in world history. But for Houston, it is an occasion to proclaim itself a city reborn. 
 
Force of 12,000 Volunteers
Elsewhere, world fairs and olympic games have been used to ballyhoo municipal grandeur, but rarely has a city tried to make so much of an event that officially lasts only 48 hours. So far 12,000 volunteers have offered their labor and about $10 million has been contributed in cash and goods to make the meeting a drama fit for a global audience.
The message repeatedly announced by the business leaders, the news media and much of the political leadership is that Houston is back on its feet after the catastrophic oil price recession of the 1980's and that it is ready once again to engage in the economic competition it relishes.
The city hit bottom in 1987 and then started coming back almost as fast as it had gone down. For two and a half years now, employment has grown at a faster rate in Houston than it has nationwide. The recovery, fueled by the growth in refining and chemical plants and the emergence of non-energy industries, was crowned this spring when the city's unemployment rate dipped below the national average for the first time in eight years.
The world will hear these sunny statistics only for the few days the leaders of Britain, France, West Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan join President Bush here because he chose to hold the event in the city he calls his hometown. In the two other years when it was the turn of the United States to be host to the annual meeting, it was held in Williamsburg, Va., and in Puerto Rico.
Brazen self-promotion is very much in character for Houston. Yet amid all the hoopla, there are also clear signs of how much the city has changed as a result of its economic roller-coaster ride and how much it is still undergoing a very uncharacteristic process of self-examination.
 
The Recovery
Getting in Tandem With the Country
''Until recently the public perception of the recovery seems to have lagged behind the recovery itself,'' said Barton A. Smith, chairman of the economics department at the University of Houston, ''because it seems that many people are only now accepting in their own minds what has been clear in the indicators for some time.''
Given what the city has been through, a degree of caution is understandable.
In the five years after oil prices crashed in 1982, Houston lost about 225,000 jobs, about an eighth of the total work force. Since mid-1987 it has regained about 80 percent of them. During the economic bust, property values dropped by 30 percent or more. Even though house prices in some neighborhoods scored double-digit gains last year, the real estate market has not fully recovered for the most part.
 
'A Delicate State'
Forecasts of steady, if moderate, growth have become a matter of consensus among economists and have won the confidence of the public.
Rents in the central business district downtown are on the rise, to an average of about $15 a square foot, and in the past year tenants have begun occupying the last of the near empty skyscrapers that became a symbol of the city's decline. But not all areas and all groups have made a complete turnaround.
''The economy is still in a pretty delicate state as far as a lot of people are concerned, because they are still hurting,'' said El Franco Lee, a black Harris County Commissioner who represents inner-city areas. He was speaking of the black, Hispanic and Oriental people who live the old city wards close to downtown.
The recovery, and its limitations, are perhaps most visible in the swaths of subdivisions and shopping malls that are strung along freeways for as much as 50 miles from downtown. Work crews are swarming over many low-rise apartment complexes that had deteriorated until grass broke through the parking lot asphalt. Investors are repainting, rehabilitating and renaming them on the assumption that Houston will once again become a mecca for ambitious young people.
 
Vacancy Rates Are Down
A recent market survey by Coldwell Banker Commercial Real Estate Services found that vacancy rates for downtown office space had dropped to about 17 percent from 32 percent.
The Houston economy changed so rapidly in the 1980's that its future is necessarily uncharted. The most dramatic change involves a move away from dependence on the exploration, production and transportation of oil and gas.
As a result, the Houston economy has become more like that of the rest of the country. There is some disagreement among the experts, however, as to whether the down years might have given Houston a competitive advantage.
Ray Perryman, director of the Baylor University Forecasting Service, predicts that the Houston economy will ''expand at a quicker rate than the U.S. and Texas over the next two decades.'' He attributes this in part to a comparative advantage in labor and real estate costs, which dropped with the city's economy. On the other hand a recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank found that if forecasts for a national slowdown prove true and the expansion of the petrochemical industry plays itself out as expected, ''Houston's economic expansion will slow down.''
 
THe Leadership
Changing Times, Changing Faces
Houston's past does not necessarily offer clues as to where it is going. While most major cities were born of a confluence of history and geography, Houston was founded as an unlikely real estate scheme. It is an invented city that continually reinvents itself.
Once a cotton town, then a rail center, Houston mushroomed into a metropolis after World War II under the aegis of oil men, and it bore the stamp of entrepeneurs devoted to the idea that low taxes and minimal interference by government would assure prosperity from private business.
During the 1970's and 1980's an entire generation of domineering figures passed from the scene, like Gus Wortham and James S. Abercrombie, with the economic collapse quieting those not stilled by death.
 
'Broadened the Base'
Mr. Love, who served as banker to many of the city's economic giants, said: ''I think we now have a much stronger city because we have broadened the leadership base. During the downturn we saw that we were not invincible and that we could not withstand the tests without drawing on all our resources.''
The conference has provided one sign of how much the leadership has been democratized. Representatives of minority groups make up one-fifth of the 270-member Host Committee. Although that percentage is less than half the minority share of the city's population, it is still a notable figure in a city once dominated by white males.
Mr. de la Garza, the son of Mexican immigrants, said: ''Ten years ago it would have been inconceivable that someone like me would have been asked to participate in something like the Host Committee. When I got the call, I just thought how proud my parents would be.''
With the passing of the old leadership, old ideas have suddenly been challenged. The most important of those ideas is that local government should play little role in determining how land is developed. That dogma has left Houston the only major city in the United States with no zoning system.
 
Re-Evaluating Old Beliefs
''Changes in public opinion have created a willingness to re-evaluate traditionally held beliefs and to look at what's been done elsewhere, like zoning,'' said Mayor Whitmire, who during her re-election campaign last fall dismissed any possibility of a zoning system here but a few months later appointed a committee to study the issue.
The impetus to re-examine some basic premises has come from two very different directions.
A few major developers like Gerald D. Hines, who has left his mark with giant commercial projects in this city and around the country, like the Norwest Center in Minneapolis, have begun to assert that the lack of restrictions on land use could slow future growth. These critics cite the uncertainties inherent when an investor has no way of knowing whether the land next to his office tower might be occuped by an industrial plant.
 
The Future
Is It Time to Say What to Build?
Homeowners, primarily of the working and middle classes, have been the other source of complaints about the lack of controls.
John Mixon, a law professor at the University of Houston, helped stimulate the zoning debate this year by creating a proposal for zoning on a neighborhood basis that would not require sorting out the entire hodgepodge that is Houston.
''With the bust,'' he said, ''the illusion of constant mobility vanished for many homeowners who realized they could not pick up and move if their neighborhood went downhill because they could never sell their houses and break even. As a result, people started realizing they had to protect what they owned.''
 
Covenants Among Landowners
Across most of the city the only regulation on land use is through deed restrictions, private covenants among landowners that have proved expensive and difficult to enforce. As a result a growing number of neighborhood groups have begun to complain about their inability to prevent invasions by fast food shops, small warehouses and apartment complexes.
Since 1988, prices have climbed by nearly 10 percent in distant Houston suburbs where developers enforced restrictions on the use of land in communities developed under master plans, according to a survey of neighborhood property values by Mr. Smith. Values rose even more in the few communities within the city limits that are incorporated villages with their own land-use rules. In areas with free-for-all development, prices rose from 1 to 5 percent.
 
'Step Back and Decide'
Although the issue is far from settled, a number of the city's leaders who once fought zoning now agree with Mr. Love that ''we are in a real estate lull now, and so it is appropriate to step back and decide whether zoning would help the next round of building.''
The stakes in the zoning debate go beyond real estate. The relationship between public and private powers could be reshaped as the city tries to decide how to insure a quality of life that keeps it attractive and growing.
When the leaders of the industrialized democracies come to Houston next week, they will find a city that is reborn but that is now deciding what it wants to be when it grows up.
 
 
HOUSTON AT A GLANCE
 
History
Houston was founded in 1836 by two brothers from New York, who named their new settlement after Gen. Sam Houston, hero of the Texas war for independence from Mexico (1835-36). The brothers, John K. Allen and Augustus C. Allen, purchased 6,642 acres of land near the juncture of Buffalo and White Oak bayous from the widow of John Austin for $9,428, four months after the defeat of Gen. Santa Anna's Mexican forces at San Jacinto on April 21, 1936. In November 1836 the Republic of Texas selected Houston as its temporary capital. The capital was moved to Austin in 1839.
 
Geography
Houston, the seat of Harris County, is situated on Buffalo Bayou about 50 miles northwest of the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Tex. The two cities are connected by the Houston Ship Channel.
 
Vital Statistics
 
Population: 1,728,910*
Rank among U.S. cities: 4th
Per capita personal income: $15,200 a year
Vacancy rate for office space: 28.3 percent in June 1989**
Average high in July: 93.6 degrees
Year of incorporation: 1837
 
*1986 estimate.
**2d highest among 25 largest cities.
 
Sources: Encyclopedia Americana, Statistical Abstract of the United States, the World Almanac and Book of Facts, and the Information Please Almanac

GRAPHIC: Graph of the percentage change in the total number of people employed. (source: Dr. Barton Smith, University of Houston Center for Public Policy, from Bureau of Labor Statistics data.); map of Texas showing location of Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); GERMANY (67%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES INC (72%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX); EUROPE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TRENDS (68%); OLYMPICS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); HISTORY (53%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



120 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Where Right Spin Can Mean You're In

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 4

 BODY:
When President Bush appointed a Washington lawyer named Stephen Potts to the Administration's top ethics post two weeks ago, the choice seemed curious at first.
Although chosen to head the Office of Government Ethics, Mr. Potts had no background in either government or ethics law, and he had not toiled in the Bush campaign.
How did he meet the President?, Mr. Potts was asked.
On the tennis court, he replied. It turned out that while Mr. Potts might not have specialized in conflict-of-interest regulations, he knows a lot about put-away shots, having won five national father-son tennis championships with his son, Deaderick. 
Mr. Bush had recruited another official for his Tennis Cabinet.
As in other things, the President takes his cue from Theodore Roosevelt, who in 1903 built the first White House tennis court, for his daughter, Alice, and then proceeded to monopolize it with mustachioed advisers and pitchers of mint juleps.
''The Tennis Cabinet is supposed to be that coterie which plays tennis with the President and between plays gives him points on people and things,'' Archie Butt, a Roosevelt aide and frequent player, once wrote, adding that the group engaged in more play than work on the court.
Like Mr. Bush, Roosevelt was an aggressive player. When Archie Butt bopped the Rough Rider on the head with a shot one day and began to apologize, Roosevelt waved him off, saying, ''If I hit you, I am not going to apologize, so you just bang away at me as much as you like and say nothing in the fray.''
Mr. Bush likes to take the measure of people on the playing field. As his press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, says, ''Subconsciously, at least, he judges people by their competitive attitude on the courts.''
Mr. Bush himself says: ''I'm a great believer that sports can do wonders for friendships and establishing common ground. Have always felt that way. Still feel that way.''
He first met Nicholas F. Brady, his close friend and now Treasury Secretary, on a tennis court.
He met Roger Porter, his domestic policy chief, when Gerald R. Ford, then President, invited the two to the White House for a doubles match.
Mr. Bush became friends with his Secretary of State, James A. Baker 3d, when the pair joined forces in the late 1950's to win the doubles championship at the Houston Country Club two straight years.
He met David Bates, his former Cabinet secretary and continuing member of the Tennis Cabinet, when Mr. Bates played tennis as a boy with Mr. Bush's son Jeb at the Houston Country Club.
Mr. Bush does not play anymore with Mr. Brady, who had a hip replacement, or Mr. Baker, who has a shoulder injury. But he has made sure his Administration is stocked with plenty of ''A'' and ''B'' players. The Bush racquet club includes Mr. Porter; Mr. Bates; Michael J. Boskin, the President's economic adviser; Gregg Petersmeyer, the head of the Points of Light program; C. Boyden Gray, the President's counsel, and the most talented tennis player on the White House court, Mr. Bush's youngest son, Marvin.
Being a member of Mr. Bush's Tennis Cabinet offers a certain cachet and an opportunity to mention a pet project as the players change ends.
''Once, when I was pressed for time, I mentioned something to the President on the court, and afterward everyone said, 'How did you get to him so fast?' '' Mr. Porter recalled. ''It saved me writing a memo.'' But ordinarily, the advisers know that for this President, tennis is very serious business. Mr. Bush will sometimes call in aides on the pretext of some business of state and then get down to the real point of analyzing recent wins and losses at the White House or at Camp David. He likes to reckon who's coming up and who's slipping and how doubles teams can be rearranged to increase competition.
Sometimes, when other officials are playing, the President will wander down with Millie, the first family's dog, to the First Court, tucked in a garden of shrubbery on the South Grounds, and watch a few games, calling out as he leaves that he expects a full report after the match.
Unlike Jimmy Carter, George Bush does not keep track of who's using the court. He keeps track only of the score.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS (84%); OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS (84%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; TENNIS ETHICS (92%); TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (76%); POLITICS (73%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); POTTS, STEPHEN D GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



121 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: All Except the Texas Heat Is Under Rug for Summit

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 4

 BODY:
In the ''war room'' tucked inside a nondescript suite in a high-rise building here, volunteers staff a bank of telephones in front of a wall-size map.
Every day for several months now, those phones have been ringing with urgent reports: trash has been found in spots that might be glimpsed by the dignitaries or reporters who will start arriving here this weekend for the 1990 economic summit meeting.
Each caller's sighting - a trash-strewn vacant lot, an abandoned sofa at curbside - is immediately entered on an official ''waste spotter report,'' which is dispatched to the appropriate district leader. The district leader, in turn, calls the appropriate quadrant leader, who goes to the site and personally inspects the trash. 
The site is then assigned a priority number, based on the nastiness of the mess and the likelihood that an important out-of-towner will see it. A color-coded flag is then placed in the wall-size map, and a cleanup crew is dispatched to cart the trash away. $10 Million Donated Houston is taking the economic summit meeting very seriously.
The event, at which the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and West Germany will meet with President Bush, will run from Monday through Wednesday. About $10 million in privately donated funds will be spent.
''Houston is already clean,'' said Donald Fitch, who with Limus Jefferson is co-chairman of the Houston Clean Committee. ''We just want to make sure it's the cleanest it can be.''
Carrie Hendrix, deputy executive director of the Houston Host Committee, the group responsible for the logistics of the event, said, ''The eyes of the world will be on Houston for those four days.''
As a result, the city is practically re-creating itself, and not just by cleaning up an estimated four million pounds of trash.
City leaders have urged citizens to plant red and white flowers because the colors show up best on television. The police department has kept 100 badly needed police cars out of service so that they will be new and shiny when they escort motorcades. The county sheriff has spent $35,000 for new uniforms and riot gear to control protests being planned by groups as diverse as the National Organization for Women and the Ku Klux Klan.
 
Charm School for Cab Drivers
Taxi drivers have been given free courses on how to be polite to visitors. The roads have been repaved at Rice University, where the summit meetings will be held, and a fire hydrant there has been moved away from a path where the leaders are scheduled to walk so there will be no unphotogenic tripping or bumping of knees.
There are even attempts to put the best face on the city's brutal, swamplike July weather. Earlier this month Houston planners announced a new slogan that they hope will make a selling point out of 95-degree heat and make delegates forget that walking outside feels like entering a windowless room where a hot shower has been running full force.
The slogan, along with a fluorescent logo and bouncy theme song, is ''Houston's Hot!'' - and a series of 10-second broadcast advertisements tell residents how to respond when visitors point out that fact. A sample answer: ''Yes, Houston is hot. Retail sales are up 7 percent.'' Despite some minor embarrassment when it was learned that a local guidebook to topless bars had been using the same slogan for years, summit meeting officials say they are pleased with their pun. ''It's the ultimate spin control,'' one committee member told reporters.
 
Toning Down the Plans
The enthusiastic approach to the summit meeting began almost immediatly after the announcement last December that Houston had been selected over San Antonio, the first runner-up, to be the host city for the event. Within days, dozens of city institutions had asked to be included in the list of official events.
More than once, the White House has stepped in to tone down the plans. A 25-mile drive to the Johnson Space Center was rejected for logistical reasons, and there was not enough time for an evening of opera and ballet at the Wortham Theater. The only large event that was not deleted was a kickoff rodeo Sunday night, at which stars of the Grand Ol' Opry -which is from Nashville, for goodness sake - will perform.
That announcement caused a battle on the newspaper opinion pages here, with arts leaders expressing outrage that Houston, a great performing arts city, will simply reinforce its stereotype as a cowboy town. To soothe ruffled feelings, the Bushes will give a party on the last night of the meeting, after the other leaders have left, for the more than 10,000 volunteers who worked on the event.
All this and every other tidbit about the summit meeting has been followed avidly here. Much attention has been given to which delegation will be staying at which hotel, particularly the fact that the Japanese requested the lodging already reserved for the Canadians, while the Italians had to settle for their second choice, too, because their favored rooms were already taken by the British.
 
An International Menu
The city's entrepreneurs have staked their claims as well. Jack Jaumo, a wholesale chocolate distributor, is selling candy bars with an ''Economic Summit 1990'' wrapper. The Bistro Vino restaurant is offering a special international menu, including stuffed mushrooms with Italian sausage, French onion soup, spinach salad topped with Canadian bacon and a mixed grill entree with English prime rib of beef, German bratwurst and Japanese chicken teriaki. Dessert, naturally, is apple pie.
With every detail so meticulously attended to and enthusiasm so high, the major remaining question is, will this work? Will Houston secure its image in the eyes of the world?
Dr. Barton Smith, chairman of the department of economics at the University of Houston, has his doubts. The city cannot control what comes across the television screen, he said, and may be surprised by what the world chooses to focus on.
''The media could still come to town and complain about how hot it is,'' he said, ''slogan or not.''
Robin Blut, a spokesman for the Houston Clean subcommittee, an arm of the host committee, disagrees. ''We have made sure that Houston is a picture perfect backdrop,'' she said. ''We don't expect thousands of stories about how Houston is a clean city. But if they don't say it's a dirty city, then we've accomplished our goal.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The City of Houston has begun a war on trash to make the city as clean as possible for visitors to the 1990 economic summit meeting. Donald Fitch, left, and Limus Jefferson are co-chairmen of the Houston Clean Committee. ''We just want to make sure it's the cleanest it can be,'' said Mr. Fitch. 9F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON CLEAN COMMITTEE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; HOUSTON (TEX)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WOMEN (71%); SHERIFFS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CITIES (62%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



122 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: The City Council Passes a Tax Test

 BODY:
New York's City Council has survived its first major test under the new City Charter. Negotiating with a new Mayor, David Dinkins, and without its old partner, the Board of Estimate, the Council approved a $28 billion budget that deals responsibly with the city's weakening economy.
Neither the outcome or the process differed dramatically from the past. The Mayor and his staff exercised the most control, as always, and the Council did not function as the independent branch of government it would like to be. But it's moving in the right direction. 
The new budget, which imposes $800 million in higher tax charges, will mean significant reductions in services. But both the Mayor and Council did a creditable job of preserving critical services despite fiscal restraints and a tight timetable.
City Hall couldn't complete its budget until it knew what Albany was doing, and by the time the state approved its budget - seven weeks late - the city had to rush to meet its June 30 budget deadline. The timing, and a sharp drop in anticipated revenues, limited debate and the city's options.
It was clear from the start that taxes would increase. The package of $800 million in higher taxes, including $263 million in increased property taxes, is necessary if the city means to maintain a decent level of services. Both the Mayor and Council made concessions: the Council agreed to raise real estate taxes higher than it wanted. Mr. Dinkins bought the Council's suggestion for a higher surcharge on the personal income tax.
As expected, the Council restored some services. Mayors always put cuts in their budgets so the Council can win points at home by restoring them. This year the Council put money back for parks, libraries, education, cultural groups and additional police officers.
To its credit, the Council focused on basic services. To its discredit, it forfeited a chance to make some meaningful cuts by proposing such badly conceived ones that they died quickly. The Council leadership also imposed too much secrecy on its negotiations and meetings, often leaving its own members angrily in the dark.
But the Council showed more initiative and responsibility than in its rubber-stamp past, and that gives promise for the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (97%); MAYOR&COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; CITY COUNCILS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PROPERTY TAXES CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (93%); BUDGETS (93%); MAYORS (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TRENDS (69%); INCOME TAX (66%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (85%); 



123 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Times for Architecture Industry

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The virtual evaporation of significant new construction projects in New York City is deeply hurting the architectural profession, forcing firms to lay off employees, cut their fees, diversify their practices and search for work in other cities and countries.
During the expansive 1980's, architects came to enjoy near-celebrity status, as they remade the city's skyline. Now, they are scrambling for work.
''Everyone is slowing down,'' said Lenore Lucey, executive director of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. ''Or, if they're busy now, they are looking at slowing down by the end of the year.'' 
 
Vast Construction Site
Many firms continue to work on major office and apartment projects that germinated in the late 1980's. Times Square, for example, still looks like one vast construction site.
But as that work nears completion, 27 million square feet of space in mid-Manhattan is unrented, the market is soft and developers are not starting new towers that would sustain architectural employment. For many firms, the New York City pipeline is empty. Although those in charge of the 42d Street redevelopment effort insist that it will happen, other projects announced with great fanfare in the 1980's seem to be indefinitely stalled - for example, Columbus Center, on the site of the New York Coliseum; Trump City, on the Penn Yards along the Hudson River and South Ferry Plaza, at the Staten Island ferry terminal in lower Manhattan.
''January, February and March were almost still in terms of client action,'' said Richard Carlson, a principal in Swanke Hayden Connell, which traces its origins to 1906. As recently as the mid-1970's, 99 percent of its revenues were generated by New York City projects. Now that figure is closer to 60 percent.
To some extent, architectural offices have always followed the boom-and-bust development cycle in real estate. Whether the situation today is as bad as the economic slump of the mid-1970's, when the city was in its fiscal crisis, is a matter of debate.
Some firms have held their work forces relatively steady. Overall statistics for New York City showed an increase in employment in architectural services through last fall.
 
More Modest Commissions
Many architects are strengthening their interior design, planning, renovation and preservation practices. They are finding work in institutional development and are also accepting more modest commissions than they might have a few years ago.
But even the most optimistic architects, whose practices have remained virtually intact, concede that the profession is suffering. And others are not optimistic at all.
''I would guess right now that there are more unemployed architects in New York than there were in the 70's,'' said Richard Roth Jr., chairman of Emery Roth & Sons, one of the most prominent New York architectural offices for many decades.
''My impression of the industry, in the major offices, is that we've lost between 10 and 15 percent of our employment base in the past year,'' said Martin D. Raab, senior managing partner of Haines Lundberg Waehler, another long-established firm.
Just staying even is proving to be a challenge. ''I'm working harder now than I ever have,'' said A. Eugene Kohn, a founding partner of the 14-year-old firm of Kohn Pedersen Fox. ''It takes a lot more effort to get fewer projects.''
''People like me are spending more time on airplanes because you have to do that to get work,'' said John Belle, one of the founding partners of Beyer Blinder Belle.
If founding partners are working harder than ever, younger people in their offices are really feeling the crunch.
 
'They Tend to Underbid'
''The profession has gotten more cutthroat as people compete for what few commissions come along,'' said Sara Hart, a 36-year-old Columbia-trained architect with wide experience who has been out of work since March, when she was laid off.
''They tend to underbid one another so that the people who are working for them don't make much money,'' she said. ''They are expected to work very hard for very little.''
There is little relief in sight. ''It's a little scary because this is not like it was in the 70's,'' said Peter Samton, a partner in Gruzen Samton Steinglass. ''I don't think the upturn is going to be so significant. I think it's going to be a longer plateau and a slow climb.''
''There's far more product available today than there was when the bust hit in the mid-70's,'' Mr. Roth said. ''What took us out of that bust were the European financial institutions coming into the East Coast - New York, particularly. They ate up all the existing office space, allowing the new boom to take place. I don't see a new leader coming into the New York area.''
 
Shrinking Staffs
As recently as 1986, the Roth office employed almost 100 people. Today, Mr. Roth said, there are about 55 employees. Swanke Hayden Connell's headcount in its New York office has dropped in the last year to 160 from 220 through layoffs and transfers. Haines Lundberg Waehler has laid off about 30 people in the last year, bringing its total to about 230, Mr. Raab said. Gruzen Samton Steinglass has shrunk to about 75 people, from a high point of 85 two years ago.
Meanwhile, the New York office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, a nationwide giant, has shrunk in the last nine months to about 380 employees from 425, said David M. Childs, one of the partners. But he said the reduction was achieved through ''normal attrition'' and transfers, not layoffs.
''It's hard to predict, day to day,'' he said. ''I'd hate to say, 'Nothing will happen' because in a few weeks, four or five jobs may stop. Right now, we're O.K., and we have a strong backlog of work.'' Among the biggest question marks for the firm is the Columbus Center development, for which Mr. Childs is the design architect.
Not every office has been hit hard recently. Kohn Pedersen Fox avoided layoffs in its permanent ranks by hiring freelancers to work on specific projects, Mr. Kohn said. Although Beyer Blinder Belle is about two-thirds the size it was in the mid-1980's, when it employed 150 people, it has held steady for the last three years. ''Status quo is not too bad for this climate,'' Mr. Belle said.
 
A Tone of Desperation'
''In the past six months, I've started seeing resumes from associates or even partners in smaller firms and people who have had their own firms,'' said Jennie Pocock, the administrative manager at Beyer Blinder Belle. Speaking generally about applicants, she added, ''I have noticed a tone of desperation in their voices, as if they are not just making a career move but are really out of work.''
The classifieds offer little cheer. In the first three months of this year, 447 professional architectural positions were advertised in The New York Times, according to a compilation by the American Institute of Architects. That was a drop of 46 percent from the first quarter of 1989, when 833 positions were listed. The figure stands in even starker contrast to 1988, when 994 positions were advertised and 1987, when 1,464 positions could be found.
Moreover, there seem to be few geographic alternatives. Architectural advertising in Chicago, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Los Angeles and San Francisco has declined for the first time since 1986, the American Institute of Architects noted. It dropped steeply in Atlanta, Boston, Detroit, Philadelphia, St. Louis and Washington.
Employment records kept by the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics for New York City do not yet reflect the turmoil. The number of people employed in architectural services in New York City rose to 8,500 during the first nine months of 1989 (the most recent period available), compared with 7,800 in 1988.
 
Interest in Eastern Europe
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the statistics bureau, said: ''New York is an architectural center. You have firms that have nationwide and international areas of work. It may be cushioning them.''
As an example, overseas projects -in Australia, Indonesia, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore and West Germany - now account for about 35 to 40 percent of Kohn Pedersen Fox's work. The firm has a London office, as do Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and Swanke Hayden Connell, among others. Emery Roth has opened an office in Budapest, reflecting interest in Eastern Europe.
Yet, Mr. Roth sees a limit to the amount of work a New York office can expect to get elsewhere when it is competing with local architects. ''It's very difficult to take your act out of town because the costs of doing business in New York are so expensive,'' he said.
And other cautionary tales abound. Mr. Samton has memories of waiting in 1979 for a $1.5 million payment for an Iranian project. The check came in one week before the Shah went into exile.
''You have to be alert in what you're doing abroad because things can go bad very quickly,'' he said. ''Many, many American firms believe, 'Oh, wonderful, I can now go abroad.' It might look good in the beginning but wait until someone owes you money.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sara Hart, a Columbia-trained architect, has been out of work since March. (Fred Mertz for The New York Times) (pg. B1); John Belle, above, a founding partner of Beyer Blinder Belle, and Richard Roth Jr., chairman of Emery Roth & Sons, have found themselves working much harder - in part because their firms are employing fewer architects. (Beyer Blinder Belle & Emery Roth & Sons) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (57%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); INTERIOR DESIGN; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FEES (PROFESSIONAL); DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FERRIES (64%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



124 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 12, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Russian Playwrights Discuss Role of Union

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

 BODY:
It may have something to do with the way theater mirrors life, but the disagreement among a group of visiting Russian playwrights brought to New York's theater district a taste of what's going on in larger Soviet stages these days.
Specifically, there was disagreement about the role of the Soviet Writers' Union, a Government-sponsored association that functions as a catchall for literary people in that country. Half of the visitors in the eight-member group from the Vladimir Arro Writers' Studio in Leningrad are union members, half are not.
Dissension is not unusual in Western theater circles, it is more a way of life. But in the past, formal discussions or interviews with Soviet playwrights were often a matter of silent members listening to one spokesman voice the proper line. 
 
Different Ages and Viewpoints
The visiting playwrights, who indicated that they now preferred to be described as ''Russian'' rather than ''Soviet,'' reflected a significant, if sometimes confusing, division in attitudes. Age appeared to be a factor, with the more senior members more defensive about the union and the younger ones generally more critical.
They are between 30 and 57 years old and represent different viewpoints and statuses and two of the group are actually from other places, one from Ulan-Ude, a city in the Buryat republic in Siberia, and one from the Urals city of Sverdlovsk.
They are guests until this weekend of the New Dramatists, where they have room and board on West 44th Street and are participating in workshops about their craft.
The question of the union, which was once all-powerful in determining the fate and well-being of a Soviet writer, seemed to have become irrelevant, a fact that was important because it indicated how the once monolithic Soviet art structure is being eroded.
 
'I Don't See Any Advantage'
''I was invited to join the union but I declined,'' said Oleg Yuryev, 35, who also translates poetry from English. ''I don't see any advantage to it. It can't give me what I feel is important. It's abnormal to have only one organization representing all levels of writing, like this union.''
''There should be lots of different unions,'' Mr. Yuryev said. ''I and my friends have been trying to build one where we would have workshops and discuss matters of our profession. In Russia now, there are lots of small writers' unions, but they don't get the benefit of Government money.''
Vladimir Arro, the 57-year-old playwright who is the head of the studio that sent the delegation and is the president of the Leningrad branch of the Soviet Writers' Union, is also chief cultural representative of his city. Like the others, he spoke in Russian, which was interpreted by Arnold Bratov, a former writer and director of the Moscow Circus who has settled in New York.
''When things became so political, this led to division in the union,'' Mr. Arro said. ''What happened with the Leningrad union of writers is what has happened in government and it's a mess.''
 
'It's a Question of Money'
He said that circumstances encouraged all writers to be under one heading and added: ''It's a question of money. The union has funds.''
Nikolai Koljada, 33, said he was a union member but did not feel he was getting full value from it. The union, he said, works differently for its different members.
''Some are very well rewarded and people often think I am well off because I belong to it,'' he said.
The union issue was only one that tied into the entire question of government and the arts.
''The most important problem in Russia is not economic but cultural,'' said 45-year-old Aleksandr Obratsov. ''Russia has been separated all these years from its own culture and from the cultures of the world. In Russia there is this problem of financial support, but I think there can be independent, subsidized theater.''
 
The Benefits of Independence
Mr. Yuryev spoke for greater diversity of theater and further relaxation of controls. ''The more independent theater, the better,'' he said. ''There should be lots of producers, lots of different opinions. It's not Gorbachev who is giving away Government money, but local people. Russia has many economic problems that are more pressing and the Government has more important things on its mind than giving money to theater. I think we need more theater cooperatives, private and semi-private.''
Although the state-run theaters are the major producers, the writers in the group said that union membership was no longer a prerequisite to getting a script accepted and that rejection by one theater did not preclude possible acceptance by another.
Marc Galesnik, 33, who in addition to writing plays also edits newspapers, including a humor monthly, told an anecdote that reflected the uneasiness with which low-level decision makers approach their jobs in today's Soviet Union.
''Really things were easier before perestroika,'' he said. ''They gave you money and you did what they wanted. Now it is hard for officials to know exactly what is right and what is wanted. One party leader came to a preview not long ago, to see the show and approve or disapprove. He wasn't really sure. He saw it and then he said, maybe it was all right but shouldn't it have more anti-Soviet views in it.''
The willingness to discuss politics and theater did not extend to a desire to talk about the plays each writer was now working on.
A long silence to a question about the playwrights' works in progress was broken by Mr. Koljada, who observed: ''Every playwright writes only one play. There is only one theme, love and death.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARRO, VLADIMIR, WRITERS STUDIO; NEW DRAMATISTS (ORGN) NEW DRAMATISTS; 

SUBJECT: THEATER WRITERS (96%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); LITERATURE (76%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); POETRY (71%); MOUNTAINS (64%); 

PERSON: SHEPARD, RICHARD F OLEG YURYEV (60%); 



125 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words


HEADLINE: 
BUSINESS DIGEST: THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1990

 BODY:

International
 American banks are retreating from foreign markets, losing business and stature to competitors from Europe and Japan. The reduction in operations abroad is greatest in Europe, despite predictions of an economic boom there. [Page A1.] Brazil's Government will open the economy to imports and free trade, breaking with decades of protectionism. [A1.] Foreign ministers from 24 leading industrialized countries agreed to expand their economic aid program to include Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and East Germany. [A1.] The lure, and the fear, of 1992 are continuing to drive the pace of mergers and acquisitions in Europe, and more and more they are opening doors that had been closed in the past. In the first quarter of the year, 357 European companies were acquired by companies from Europe, the U.S. or Japan. [D1.] An ambitious plan to deliver natural gas from Canada's abundant western reserves to six energy-hungry Northeastern states has pitted neighbor against neighbor. [B1.] Nelson Mandela and the Rockefeller Foundation plan to set up a South African development bank to change the country's white-dominated economy through foreign investment. [A3.] Young, aggressive entrepreneurs have flourished across India in the last decade, pressing foreign collaborations in major industrial sectors, tapping the subcontinent's vast domestic markets and challenging the traditional power of family-held empires. [D5.] 
 
 
 
Companies
 Fidelity has formed an alliance with John Nuveen, under which Fidelity will market a popular Nuveen product to Fidelity's mutual fund and brokerage customers. The move may foreshadow broad changes in the retail investment market. [D1.] Wrangling has already begun over who will televise the 1994 World Cup soccer tournament in the U.S. Greater public interest was expected, but haggling between American television executives and World Cup officials, capped by NBC's decision earlier this week not to bid on rights to televise the 1994 matches, has made the next tournament anything but a hot media property. [D1.] General Motors hopes a race of solar-powered cars will help persuade students to consider careers in engineering. Sponsored by G.M., the Energy Department and the Society of Automotive Engineers, the race coincides with the most serious public policy discussions on energy and the environment since the late 1970's. [D1.] Health insurance fraud, critics say, has become a national practice. And now, insurers are fighting back. [A1.] When RJR Nabisco introduced bite-size graham crackers last fall, the company was abuzz. But when sales proved sluggish, the company redesigned the box, and sales picked up. [D1.] It will be hard to return Kaypro to even a shadow of its former self, in spite of the promises of the founder, who has reasserted control after a bankruptcy court ruling two weeks ago. [D1.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Stocks, bonds and the like were no doubt discussed at the beach, but none were traded in the U.S. Stock prices fell in London but rose in Frankfurt. The dollar fell below 150 yen in Europe. [D7.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Polaroid's agreement to let Minolta take over the job of marketing Polaroid's most sophisticated instant camera was not the kind of deal anyone would have embraced around Polaroid's headquarters until relatively recently. Talking Deals. [D2.] Jamaica Savings Bank was a maverick in the early 1980's, deliberately allowing assets to shrink when all others worshipped growth. Now comes the reward. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D7.] I.B.M. has decided to put on a happy face. A new corporate ad campaign creates an image of a revitalized company that cares about its customers. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BULGARIA (57%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (55%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); BONDS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ACQUISITIONS (75%); MERGERS (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENGINEERING (69%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); LITIGATION (67%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); SOCCER (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (61%); INSURANCE FRAUD (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (56%); 



126 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Mergers Up In Europe as Barriers Fall

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The lure, and the fear, of 1992 are continuing to drive the pace of mergers and acquisitions in Europe, and more and more they are opening doors that had been closed in the past.
In the first quarter of this year, 357 European companies were acquired by concerns from Europe, the United States or Japan, according to data released this week by Translink's European Deal Review, an organization that monitors such activity. The total value of the deals in which a price was reported was $15.4 billion. The value of 55 percent of the deals was not reported. 
The number of deals was just below the record of 371 in the third quarter of last year but above the quarterly average of 317 for all of 1989. The total value was below the third quarter's $21.7 billion but above the other three quarters, Translink's said.
 
American Acquisitions Slowed
 While European companies were very active, acquisitions by American concerns slowed significantly, Translink's reported.
In the first quarter, American companies were involved in 37 deals, with a total reported value of $747.8 million. This compares with 53 deals, with a reported value of $4.2 billion, in the fourth quarter of 1989 and a total of 182 deals, with a reported value of $15.2 billion, in all of 1989.
The continued high level of acquisitions seems to reflect that the barriers to acquisitions, within the 12-nation European Community and elsewhere, are coming down. The pressure to build ties is forcing an easing of obstacles to takeovers in countries like France and Sweden that have long been hostile to such purchases.
The trend demonstrates that business and economic decisions have moved ahead of politicial or regulatory ones. That is comparable to what happened in the United States in the 1970's as financial markets left regulators breathlessly trying to catch up with their innovations.
''Everyone is bringing down their defenses so that they can buy in the European Community,'' said Mark Dixon, the editor of Translink's European Deal Review. This easing, he said, should make more acquisitions possible and should make more logical business alliances easier.
 
France and Sweden Rank High
France, a member of the European Community, and Sweden, which is not, were No. 1 and No. 3, respectively, in net acquisitions last year. This means that French and Swedish companies bought much more abroad than foreign companies bought in France and Sweden. France's surplus was $6.1 billion and Sweden's was $1.3 billion. The No. 2 position was held by West Germany.
But in the first quarter of the year, France and Sweden were the top targets for acquisitions. In part, this reflects the cross-ownership merger between Volvo A.B. of Sweden and Renault S.A. of France.
French and Swedish companies were also the targets of other deals. France was No. 1 in the number of deals, with 53. Sweden, with 12, tied for ninth with Norway. But that is already more than a third of last year's total acquisitions by foreigners in Sweden.
In another measure of the change in positions, the value of the companies that outsiders bought in France equaled 82 percent of acquisitions by French companies abroad, compared with 43 percent in all of 1989. In Sweden, the ratio rose to 72 percent in the first quarter, from 15 percent in 1989.
 
Active Outside Home Nations
Even with this new spurt of foreign acquisitions in France and Sweden, the two were also first in acquisitions abroad in the first quarter, again helped by the the Volvo-Renault deal. Along with Britain, France and Sweden are spending much more to acquire foreign companies than to buy at home.
For Sweden, it seems the economic ties to the European Community will be well established before the politicial decision is made over whether to apply for membership in the community. But the mood in Sweden -and the economic moves already made - seem to narrow the question to when will Sweden apply, not whether it will do so.
The slowing pace of acquisitions by American companies in the first quarter does reflect a change in attitude about the need to get a foothold in Europe, Mr. Dixon said, describing it as a natural slowing after the activity last year. And he notes that while the deals declined, dropping the United States to fifth in the first quarter from first in 1989, many companies making acquistions were medium sized.
These acquisitions, Mr. Dixon contends, reflect a growing and broader commitment to a role in Europe that goes beyond what huge multinational companies like the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Corporation have already done.
 
McGraw-Hill Moves Quickly
One American company that bought in Europe, and elsewhere, in the first quarter was McGraw-Hill Inc., whose Standard & Poor's Ratings Group bought financial ratings services in Britain, France, Sweden and Australia.
Standard & Poor's wants a foothold in Europe and Australia to take advantage of the growing international market, its president, Leo O'Neill, said. Capital markets outside the United States are growing faster than in the country, and so is the ratings business, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); VOLV.B (STO) (82%); VOLV.A (STO) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); SWEDEN (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); AB VOLVO (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MARK DIXON (58%); 



127 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields Post Modest Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of tax-exempt and taxable money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were narrowly higher for the week ended Tuesday.
The fixed-income market has been flat for a few weeks as investors awaited the outcome of Government budget negotiations while watching developments in the German monetary unification and in the American economy. ''All three, if they follow their expected scenarios, would lower interest rates,'' said Walter S. Frank, chief economist at Donoghue's. 
Money managers increased to 48, up 5, the number of days tax-exempt securities are held in portfolios. The change may come from their expectations of lower interest rates and a scarcity of new tax-exempt securities.
 
Assets Decline
Assets in tax-exempt funds declined by $300 million, to a total of $75.7 billion. The average seven-day tax-exempt compounded yield increased by a basis point, to 5.46 percent, while the 30-day yield fell by a basis point, to 5.42 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
For investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, the equivalent taxable seven-day compounded yield would be 7.58 percent. It would be 8.14 percent for investors in the 33 percent bracket.
Among tax-exempt funds with assets of more than $100 million survyed by IBC/Donoghue's, the Strong Municipal Money Market fund, distributed by Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management Inc. of Milwaukee, has been the best-performing fund in the last few weeks. This week the yield was 6.30 percent.
Assets of taxable funds decreased by $4.3 billion, to a total $374.6 billion. Institutional assets fell by $1 billion, to $78.8 billion, while consumer assets dropped by $3.3 billion, to $295.8 billion. The drop in assets was attributed to the flow of money out of the funds into stock mutual funds and certificates of deposit. There was also an abundance of Treasury securities last week.
The average days to maturity of securities held in managers' portfolios rose by a day, to 44. 7.97 Percent Yield Donoghue's seven-day compounded average yield for a taxable money market fund rose by a basis point, to 7.97 percent, and the 30-day average yield rose similarly to an identical yield.
Of the general-purpose money market funds with assets of more than $100 million, the Alger Money Market Portfolio, distributed by Fred Alger & Company of Jersey City, showed the best return with a yield of 8.88 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Consumer money rates (Sources: Donoghues Money Fund Report; Bank Rate Monitor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FRED ALGER & CO INC (61%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (79%); BONDS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



128 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Drops Against Yen in Europe

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, July 4

 BODY:
The dollar fell below 150 yen in slow European trading today amid growing speculation that interest rates will decline in the United States.
The dollar closed in London at 149.70 Japanese yen, compared with 150.95 at the close in New York on Tuesday. The United States currency closed at 1.6465 German marks, compared with 1.6505 on Tuesday in New York. 
United States currency markets were closed for the Fourth of July holiday.
 
No Free Fall Expected
In Tokyo, traders predicted the dollar would fall gradually but not dramatically. ''I don't really see the dollar going into a free fall,'' said Akio Nakano, a manager at the Long-Term Credit Bank. ''Sentiment is weak, but the market is cautious. It will be a slow, gradual decline.''
The dollar has been under pressure on expectations of easier credit in the United States. Those expectations were bolstered Tuesday when President Bush said that bringing down interest rates worldwide remained a policy goal.
Lower United States interest rates make dollar-bearing assets less attractive against assets in other currencies that may have higher interest rates.
''The interest rate gap between the United States and Japan is shrinking, and in the long run, this may give the yen the edge to really rally against the dollar,'' said Dai Sawai, a manager at Citibank. ''But the market is still too directionless to say that the dollar and yen have made a clear reversal.''
The currency and stock markets in London and Frankfurt were quiet as many workers left work early to watch a televised World Cup soccer match between England and West Germany.
Among other currencies, the pound closed higher against the dollar, supported by high British interest rates and a growing belief that Britain will soon join the European Monetary System's exchange-rate mechanism. The pound finished at $1.7870, after closing at $1.7765 in New York on Tuesday.
Gold rose $1 an ounce to close at $362.50 in London, its highest level in a month. Gold for August delivery closed at $364.10 an ounce on Tuesday on the Commodity Exchange in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (54%); C (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); SOCCER (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (56%); 



129 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Should the West Bail Out Gorbachev?;
Yes, Targeted Aid Wouldn't Be Wasted

BYLINE: By Graham Allison; Graham Allison is professor of government at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
When the heads of the leading industrial democracies meet in Houston next Monday, President Bush will face a question he has been trying to avoid: what can the West do to help Mikhail Gorbachev?
Frustrated by the Bush Administration's recalcitrance on aid, Bonn unilaterally extended $3 billion of credits at discount rates. The European Community is discussing a $15 billion aid package. Washington risks not just being left behind but left out. 
Are there initiatives the West could take now that would raise the probability of perestroika's success? Credits are one thing and not to be scoffed at. But there is a more important agenda of actions to assist the Soviet Union's transformation to democracy and a market economy.
The strategy is this. By giving concrete assistance to specific steps toward free markets and democracy, the West can facilitate such actions, create incentives for further steps and offer hope for the longer run. Consider five particulars.
Demonstration projects. These might include model family farms, like the ones now being established in a Dutch-sponsored project to produce vegetables; McDonald's in Moscow, whose imported cattle and seeds for lettuce and tomatoes are several times as productive as Soviet equivalents and whose methods for delivering services mesmerize Muscovites, or American prefabricated housing.
Advanced communications. The Soviet Union is open to the transfer of the technological infrastructure of pluralism: printing presses, xeroxes, personal computers, dishes that receive satellite signals and a high-tech telephone system.
In Moscow, Leningrad, Sverdlovsk and 50 other cities, non-Communist Democratic Coalition candidates won majorities in recent elections. Helping these groups to communicate, learn from each other and publicize their views serves our values and interests. An initiative that would give one million such devices to democratic forces this year could be mounted today.
Managerial and technical training. The best argument in most Soviet policy circles today is ''that's the way Americans do it.'' Flying carpets bearing wise men for a weekend is not the solution. Soviet leaders and policy makers need informed, sustained collaboration with their Western counterparts if they are to tackle issues like the transition to a market economy, privatization of state enterprises, reform of industrial ministries and decolonization.
Joint business ventures. High-visibility national joint ventures would provide substantial financial benefits and capture imaginations. Joint development of underdeveloped Soviet oil and gas reserves could earn an additional $5 billion annually for the Soviet Union within three years and $15 billion annually within a decade. In addition to profits for Western firms, this would also enhance Western energy security, since guaranteed long-term contracts would expand world energy supplies.
Joint environmental ventures. Radiation from Chernobyl fell on the East and West alike. The West can align itself with the march of history by leading a collaborative donation of Western technology to reduce the ongoing destruction of the Soviet - and our common - environment. The essence of such an agenda is to demonstrate in deeds the West's commitment to helping Mr. Gorbachev transform the Soviet Union. Such initiatives could cost $10 billion to $15 billion a year. Split three ways, that would mean $5 billion each for the U.S., Europe and Japan. If that seems large, recall that U.S. taxpayers spent $150 billion last year to defend American security interests in Western Europe. Our Western European allies spent an equivalent amount.
Suppose that President Gorbachev had offered to free Eastern Europe, eliminate the Warsaw Pact military threat, pull Soviet troops back to the Soviet Union and permit German unification - all for a price. What would the West have been willing to pay?
The West has an historic opportunity to invest in developments that advance the slow but real transition of the Soviet Union to economic and political democracy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; FOREIGN AID EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (72%); PRIVATIZATION (70%); FAMILY FARMS (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (51%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (51%); 

PERSON: ALLISON, GRAHAM GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



130 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Battling Specialists Over Revenues From Testing

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Squeezed by Government and employer efforts to reduce costs, many hospitals are battling with specialist physicians over the revenues generated by advanced testing equipment and life-support machines. Some of the fights over these lucrative procedures are ending up in court.
Hospitals are demanding a bigger share of the money that flows to radiologists, who run million-dollar scanners and imagers. Similar pressures are hitting pathologists, who interpret the torrent of test results from automated laboratories, and anesthesiologists, who assist in surgery and often supervise intensive-care units. When the specialists resist, the hospitals sometimes arrange to give the work to others.
Many doctors are fighting back, arguing that the hospitals' demands are improper and in some cases illegal. The American Medical Association decided at its annual meeting last week to investigate payments that it said were being made by specialists ''for the privilege of serving patients at the hospital.'' 
 
Big Fees and Big Salaries
The strains between specialists and hospitals are a vivid example of the conflicts that have arisen as the pressure grows to slow the growth in medical costs. The Government has been setting increasingly tight limits on what it will pay for medical procedures. And health-care providers are being forced to offer discounts as they bid for the group business of large employers and insurers. To keep their bids low, some hospitals have asked doctors to agree to reduced fees as a condition for hospital privileges.
''Everybody's looking for a piece of that money,'' said Dr. Michael R. Soper, national medical director of the Cigna Corporation's health plans. ''The hospital is looking for a piece of it. We're looking to avoid some of those high fees. Meanwhile, some anesthesiologists and radiologists are making as much money as baseball players.''
 
Fights Go to Courts
Many of the disputes are being fought in lawsuits:
* In Nassau County, L.I., nine radiologists are suing Winthrop-University Hospital, a 548-bed teaching hospital in Mineola. The hospital hired its own radiologists last year and began bypassing the plaintiffs' independent radiology group, which used to do all the hospital's work.
* In Palm Beach, Fla., a jury awarded $19 million to a pathologist who sued American Medical International Inc., a hospital chain based in Los Angeles. Dr. Zbigniew Scheller, the pathologist, said a Palm Beach hospital owned by American Medical had refused to continue his contract, which had granted him a percentage of gross laboratory receipts, and had instead diverted business to other specialists. American Medical has appealed.
* In Fresno, Calif., six anesthesiologists sued the Fresno Community Hospital and Medical Center, asking for reinstatement and damages after the hospital made an exclusive contract with another anesthesiologist. Lower courts decided against the doctors, and they have appealed.
Many specialists used to be salaried employees of hospitals, which included their services in the hospital fee, supplied their equipment and paid the nurses and technicians who assisted them. Their patients were assigned by the hospital.
But in recent years some specialists have set up shop on their own outside the hospital. They continue to work in hospitals under contract, but in the case of radiologists and pathologists they often also run independent businesses that can divert patients from the hospitals and allow the specialists to keep all the money. Radiologists have organized their own centers to conduct $550 CT scans and $1,000 magnetic resonance images, which are computerized methods of diagnosing conditions that might be missed by ordinary X-rays. Pathologists and other doctors have established their own laboratories.
The radiologists and pathologists ''learned how to make a living without the hospital,'' said Jeff Goldsmith, a national health-care adviser with Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm. ''They learned to compete at the same time as retaining the franchise'' in the hospital.
The anesthesiologists have sharply increased their incomes, benefiting from the rising number of surgical procedures requiring their services. In some hospitals, anesthesiologists also supervise the intensive care of critically ill patients.
 
Setting Limits on Payments
For years, the hospitals rarely complained. But now that the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private insurers are setting ceilings on what they will pay for medical treatment, hospitals are seeking new sources of income. The rapidly growing business of running high-technology medical equipment immediately comes to mind. The combined earnings after expenses of specialists in radiology, pathology and anesthesiology were at least $9 billion in 1988, or 4.2 percent of all money spent on hospital care.
''Hospitals are scrambling for whatever they can hold onto,'' said Raymond J. Cisneros, a health-care partner with Deloitte & Touche, the accounting and consulting firm.
The hospitals are insisting on contracts that allow them to dismiss specialists at will, eliminating the protection of a show-cause hearing. With such power, some hospitals have been able to force specialists to pay more for the privilege of practicing in the hospital. In some hospitals, physicians must now pay for the right to manage the radiological equipment and laboratory, just as a franchisee would, and for supplies and the assistance of hospital employees - costs formerly absorbed by hospitals.
In doing so, the hospitals are infuriating many specialists.
''Doctors see the pie shrinking, and they want to establish themselves and earn an adequate living while they take care of patients,''said Dr. James S. Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association.
The earnings of salaried physicians grew dramatically in the 1980's after hospitals encouraged specialists on their payrolls to become independent so they could bill patients separately and not be paid out of the set amount that Medicare has established for each kind of illness.
But as medical technology advanced and expensive procedures generated enormous revenues, the hospitals began to notice how much the specialists were earning.
 
Wide Variation in Earnings
An American Medical Association survey indicates that anesthesiologists, on average, earned $194,500 in 1988, which was 69 percent more than in 1981. Radiologists' income rose 71 percent, to $184,600, and pathologists earned $131,000. The average general practitioner, by contrast, earned $94,600 in 1988.
One example of what a specialist can earn involves diagnostic scans with a magnetic resonance imager. The total fee for a scan can reach $1,000, with the radiologist typically receiving $160 to $250 for supervising the procedure and interpreting the images, which usually takes 25 to 85 minutes. The hospital would allot 60 percent of the remaining $750 to $840 to cover capital, operating and maintenance costs of the equipment and site; 10 percent for supplies; 10 percent for technicians, and the rest for overhead.
''The cash flows are enormous,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health-care expert and economics professor at Princeton University. ''The hospitals want rent for the franchise. They say, 'We offer the customer base; shouldn't we get a cut out of that?' ''
No, says Thomas W. Greeson, a lawyer in Washington with the American College of Radiology, a professional group.''The radiologists are just like surgeons and obstetricians who provide individual professional services for individual patients,'' he said. ''They are very much needed by the hospital to meet accreditation and licensure requirements.''
The specialists have become even more concerned since Congress began cutting what Medicare pays for their services. Medicare payments to radiologists, for example, have been cut by 7 percent since 1988.
Dr. Richard H. Stein, a doctor in Vincennes, Ind., who is president of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, said he expects further cuts of ''18 to 20 percent for anesthesiologists and probably radiologists'' under a new system that will pay doctors more for consulting with patients and less for skills like surgery and running scanners.
 
Taking on New Duties
Dr. Stein added that anesthesiologists' incomes had risen with increased workloads. ''A lot of us run the intensive care units, the ventilators,'' he said. ''We are active in pain control, obstetrics, probably doing four or five different jobs.''
While surgeons have the largest incomes - $207,500, on average, in 1988 - the hospitals have not made such aggressive demands of them.
''In today's competitive market, we found hospitals being very sweet to doctors who are in a position to refer patient business to the hospital,'' said D. McCarty Thornton, acting chief counsel to the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. ''But the same hospitals are being tough with those doctors who are dependent upon the hospital for their flow of business.''
So tough, Mr. Thornton said, that his office is conducting ''numerous investigations'' of hospitals, looking into allegations by doctors that the hospitals are violating anti-kickback rules of Medicare and Medicaid by taking money from specialists to whom the hospitals referred patients.
In the cases under investigation, he said, payments are often ''disguised as a dividend payment, rental payments, consulting and billing fees.'' Mr. Thornton said the criminal cases had not reached the trial stage.
 
Dispute Over a Contract
The Nassau County lawsuit illustrates the basic disagreement between specialists and hospitals. The nine radiologists are seeking compensation for $50 million in losses that the group says it faces because Winthrop-University Hospital signed contracts with new radiologists last year and began bypassing the radiology group, Nassau Diagnostic Imaging and Radiation Oncology Associates.
Nassau Diagnostic Imaging says 165 physicians with privileges at the hospital have ordered in writing that all their radiology work be referred to the group, which was incorporated in 1981 by former employees of the hospital and had an exclusive contract until 1984.
The suit says that by hiring new contract radiologists and assigning much of the work to them, the hospital has ignored these orders and is interfering with a business relationship between the 165 doctors and Nassau Diagnostic.
The hospital has asked the court to dismiss the case. It said it ended the exclusivity agreement with the Nassau group after the group demanded the right to spend more time working outside the hospital and siphoned away patients to its own diagnostic scanning center. The hospital said the group also wanted to ''dramatically decrease its financial contributions,'' which supported the hospital's former radiology residency training program and overhead costs.
The hospital said the 165 physicians' orders interfered with efficient operations. ''In plain English, this case comes down to N.D.I.'s desire for more money,'' the hospital said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Comparison of physicians' salaries in each field from '81 to '88 (Source: A.M.A. Center for Health Policy Research) (pg. D15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (81%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (83%); TENET HEALTHSYSTEM HOLDINGS INC (81%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); SUITS AND LITIGATION PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); RADIOLOGY (89%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PATHOLOGY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BASEBALL (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); VERDICTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



131 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Sound Is So Polluted It Faces Long-Term Damage, Scientists Say

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD

 BODY:
Parts of Long Island Sound are so polluted that it faces severe long-term environmental damage, say scientists, government officials and conservation groups.
Residents have already received a sobering look at what the Sound's future is likely to hold without costly cleanup efforts. In recent summers, sections from the Throgs Neck Bridge east to Port Jefferson, L.I., and Bridgeport, Conn., have become a dead sea, with oxygen-starved waters sometimes fatal to shellfish and devoid of fin fish.
Beaches throughout the 600 miles of coastline have been closed for hundreds of days a year, and sewage pollution has wiped out tens of thousands of acres of shellfish beds. Bathers and boaters from Mystic, Conn., to Southold on the North Fork of Long Island are reporting growing amounts of floating and beached garbage. 
 
Alarming Signs of Deterioration
Although in some ways the Sound is cleaner than it was 20 years ago, the problems are nevertheless alarming signs of a deteriorating overburdened resource.
''Some people have said that Long Island Sound is dead,'' said the New York State Marine and Coastal Resources Director, Gordon Colvin. ''It's not. But it could be sometime in our lifetime.''
Mr. Colvin said major surgery would be required to upgrade water quality in the western Sound, the area nearest New York City. The central Sound should be improved, and the high quality of the eastern has to be maintained, he added.
Decisions in the next 18 months may determine the fate of the Sound. Federal environmental officials and the States of New York and Connecticut are in the fifth year of a six-year study on the oxygen-depleted water and pollution from sewage, toxic substances and floating garbage. The cost for addressing oxygen depletion alone has been estimated at up to $6 billion.
Major changes are contemplated in handling sewage at the 44 plants emptying into the Sound. Controlling street runoff, which is often a witches' brew of toxic chemicals, heavy metals and oil products, is also under consideration. Whatever approaches the study recommends, the cleanup costs will likely cost billions of dollars.
Congress is considering legislation to create a Long Island Sound office in the Environmental Protection Agency. Such a bureau might assure that the cleanups the Sound study recommends were carried out, said the co-author of the legislation, Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of Westchester.
The measure is aimed at complaints in New York and Connecticut that no comprehensive cleanup has been undertaken because management of the estuary falls under so many jurisdictions, Mrs. Lowey said.
In the last 20 years, less untreated sewage and industrial chemicals have been dumped in the Sound. But a host of environmental concerns remain, symptomatic of what many experts consider the fundamental problem.
''There are too many people living too close,'' a lawyer for the Environmental Defense Fund, Timothy B. Searchinger, said. Five million people live within 15 miles of the coastline, and 15 million in the drainage basin of the Sound.
 
Under Heavy Use
The waterway is an extraordinary economic and natural resource. Commercial and sports fisheries generated as much as $170 million in revenue in 1987.
But it is being loved to death. Six million people flocked to state beaches on the Sound in 1988, and 750,000 recreational anglers fished the waters. Some 200,000 boats are registered around the Sound, and there are 20,000 slips.
Such activity suggests that the Sound has a formidable constituency. There are dozens of groups in New York and Connecticut calling for additional protection for the Sound, and their voices are rising.
''There's a great concern for action now,'' the coordinator of the National Audubon Society's Listen to the Sound campaign, Jane-Kerin Moffat, said. '' 'We're tired of studies,' people are saying.''
In Audubon-sponsored hearings, hundreds of Connecticut and New York residents spoke of their love for the Sound, wistfully recalling times when fish and shellfish were more abundant and floating garbage was less evident.
 
Cumulative Effects
''It saddens me to see what the Sound has become,'' said Gregory Hlinka, a recreational fisherman and diver from Selden, L.I. The bottom is littered with containers, tires and shopping carts, Mr. Hlinka said at a hearing last month in Port Jefferson.
Many others are speaking out against overdevelopment and the loss of fishing grounds, noting that individual projects with minor effects may have tremendous cumulative consequences.
The issue has been joined in Westchester County, where some residents are fighting a proposed housing complex and marina on Davids Island, off New Rochelle. The proposal could be a test case on developing other unpopulated islands.
The plan calls for 2,000 luxury condominiums, many in four 31-story buildings; an 800-slip marina, a helicopter landing area and a 3,465-foot bridge between the mainland and the 78-acre island.
 
No Oxygen at Hempstead
Opponents say the proposal is out of scale with the surroundings. The high-rises would be the largest in New Rochelle. The critics also contend that the complex would be environmentally destructive. Backers of the plan say that its environmental effect would be minimal and that the economic lift to the sagging city would be substantial.
Western Long Island Sound has the most serious pollution problems. The worst, Federal officials said, is hypoxia, or low oxygen levels.
Just as people need oxygen to breathe, marine animals need dissolved oxygen to survive. When dissolved oxygen falls below a certain level, fish may become ill, die or move to where there is ample oxygen.
In the summer of 1987, extremely low oxygen levels were found between the Throgs Neck Bridge and Greenwich, Conn. At Hempstead Harbor, L.I., no oxygen was found near the bottom and little was at the surface. Trawling in those areas found no fish, and 80 percent of bottom-dwellers like starfish and crabs were dead. Lobstermen reported bringing up dead lobsters.
 
Algae Use Oxygen
Hypoxia can occur naturally, especially in the summer, when the water is warm and cannot dissolve as much oxygen as in cooler months. Researchers are convinced that nutrients like nitrogen from sewage plants and storm runoff are worsening the problem. Nutrients feed the growth of vast amounts of algae, which, when they die, sink to the bottom, where they decompose, using up oxygen.
''There seems to be a trend,'' an E.P.A. official in the Sound study, Kevin Bricke, said. ''We could get a recurrence any summer.''
Mr. Bricke said hypoxia was heads and shoulders above other pollution issues, because it was a Sound-wide problem that no one state or county could resolve. Despite longtime knowledge about the hypoxia, ''it never got the attention it deserved'' in the Sound, he said.
If the situation remains unaddressed, the hypoxia could spread east, said the Connecticut Environmental Protection Commissioner, Leslie Carothers. The western Sound ''may be reaching some kind of tipping point,'' Ms. Carothers said. About half the nutrients are from New York and Connecticut sewage plants, which discharge one billion gallons of waste a day directly into the Sound. More than half the discharge is from four New York City plants emptying into the East River. Forty percent is from Connecticut rivers that carry treated sewage and storm runoff.
Government researchers are studying how to reduce the nutrients. Experiments are under way at Stamford and Norwalk, Conn., and the Tallman Island plant in College Point, Queens. Plants emptying into Chesapeake Bay have been removing nutrients since 1983.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some people say overdevelopment near Long Island Sound has contributed to polluting the waters. A proposed housing complex and marina on Davids Island, off New Rochelle, may be a test case for other development projects.; Much of the water of the Long Island Sound is depleted of oxygen, including Hempstead Harbor, where no oxygen was found near the bottom and little was found at the surface. Swimming in the harbor at the Nassau County Beach was banned two weeks ago after a sewage spill. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LICF (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND CITY FINANCIAL CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND SOUND; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; BEACHES; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES WATER POLLUTION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BEACHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FISHES (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); CHEMICALS (67%); CHEMICALS MFG (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (52%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R NITA M LOWEY (50%); 



132 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Justice Department Files Antitrust Suit Against Architects

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5

 BODY:
The Justice Department filed a suit today against the American Institute of Architects contending that the professional group unreasonably restrained price competition.
At the same time, lawyers for the department and the institute proposed an agreement that, if accepted by a Federal district judge, would settle the Government's lawsuit.
The institute is a professional association representing 54,000 architects, about two-thirds of the registered architects in the country.
In its suit, the Justice Department invoked the Sherman Antitrust Act, which was enacted in 1890 to break up the industrial monopolies created by the 19th-century robber barons. The act has been successfully applied by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission against professional associations, including those representing civil engineers, accountants and lawyers. 
Antitrust lawyers outside the Government said the the suit also reflected increased aggressiveness by the antitrust division, now headed by James Rill. Under the Reagan Administration, the division was largely guided by free-market economic theories and was less assertive than in the past.
The Justice Department also used the antitrust act against the architects' group in 1972 in a case involving price quotations on bids. Today's action, which grew out of an investigation begun in the Reagan Administration, represented a much broader complaint of anti-competitive activity, Justice Department officials said.
Justice Department lawyers said they hoped the suit would lead to increased competition in the pricing of architectural services like planning, designing and supervising construction of office towers, hospitals, airports and industrial parks.
''It is certainly important from our perspective to let people in various professions know that competition plays as important a role in the professions as it does in any industry,'' said Robert E. Bloch, chief of antitrust division's section on professions and intellectual property.
 
'No Laws Were Violated'
But a lawyer for the architects' group insisted that price competition already existed in the profession and said the suit would probably not lead to lower fees. ''Our position has always been that no laws were violated and the filing today does not establish that any laws were violated,'' said the lawyer, David K. Perdue, associate general counsel for the institute.
Architects are already cutting fees in New York in response to a virtual evaporation of significant new construction projects, a situation that is having ripple effects elsewhere in the country.
The antitrust division's increased aggressiveness has become apparent in a number of recent cases. Last year it began an investigation into whether some elite East Coast colleges fixed prices in setting tuition. The division has also undertaken a price-fixing investigation into the fares of some of the country's major airlines. And earlier this year, it indicted three dentists in Arizona on charges of illegally setting patient fees. None of these cases have been resolved.
Today's suit charges that the institute entered into an unlawful agreement to prohibit members from engaging in competitive bidding, discounting fees and providing free services. Under the proposed settlement, the institute would not admit wrongdoing but would be prohibited from having a code of ethics whose aim is to discourage competition.
The suit says that from August 1984 to at least February 1985, the architects' group discouraged price competition.
The Justice Department's complaint against the group cited a policy statement adopted by the Chicago chapter that specifically prohibited price competition.
Lawyers for the Justice Department, who declined to elaborate on that evidence, maintained that the institute was legally responsible for the actions of its local chapters. They said in the suit that the group's national officers endorsed the policy statement adopted by the Chicago branch.
The suit said Thomas J. Eyerman, president of the Chicago chapter, was responsible for the distribution of 6,000 copies of the statement to institute members and purchasers of architectural services in seven states.
 
Policy Is Called Short-Lived
''The effects of the conspiracy have been to unreasonably restrain price competition among A.I.A. members in the sale of their services and to deprive customers seeking the services of A.I.A. members of the benefits of free and open competition in the sale of such services,'' the suit said.
Mr. Perdue, the lawyer for the institute, said the policy statement was short-lived. ''It was issued by the Chicago chapter in 1984 on the subject of fees and compensations and it was rescinded within a few months. There was no intention to violate the antitrust act.''
The suit comes as the organization is already under a court order issued in 1972. That order was aimed at allowing its members to submit price quotations on bids for architectural services.
If today's settlement is approved, the institute would be prohibited from issuing any codes of ethics that violate antitrust laws, and each of the group's 280 state and local chapters would be required to withdraw any provisions in their codes that suppress competition.
The institute would also be required to begin a program to insure that it does not renew any anti-competitive practices and would pay the Government $50,000 as partial compensation for the cost of the Justice Department's investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (99%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (99%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (92%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (AIA) AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SHERMAN ANTITRUST ACT (1890); SUITS AND LITIGATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); LITIGATION (92%); LAWYERS (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CARTELS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); JUDGES (73%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); AIRLINES (69%); ACCOUNTING (69%); TUITION FEES (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID DAVID DAVIS (54%); 



133 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: White House Spurns Expansion Of Nation's Anti-Poverty Efforts

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5

 BODY:
After considering a variety of ambitious options, the Bush Administration has decided against proposing any major new program or strategy to combat poverty at this time, Administration officials said today.
An interagency group, convened last year by a senior adviser to President Bush to rethink the nation's anti-poverty efforts, came up with a dozen broad alternatives. But in meetings over the last two weeks, a higher-ranking group, the President's Domestic Policy Council, decided that the options were too expensive or would stir too much political controversy. The council, a Cabinet-level advisory body, concluded that the Administration should simply try to make current programs work better.
A White House official summarized the upshot this way: ''Keep playing with the same toys. But let's paint them a little shinier.'' 
Another Administration official, acknowledging that Mr. Bush had promised ''a kinder, gentler nation'' in the 1988 campaign, insisted that the President was not reneging on his promise.
''We have decided to abjure a glitzy, splashy, high-profile announcement of new programs and a grand new strategy,'' the official said. ''We concluded there were no obvious things we should be doing that we weren't doing that would work.''
 
Signs of Interest
Experts on poverty from outside the Government, whose ideas were solicited when the White House began its quest for a new policy last year, said the Administration had seemed genuinely interested in new ideas for a long-term anti-poverty strategy.
Confidential White House documents show the Bush Administration seriously considered such options as ''large-scale community intervention in high-poverty areas,'' ''expanded family planning services,'' expansion of tax credits for the working poor, creation of a ''new block grant for investment in poor children,'' the establishment of a national minimum child-support benefit and the use of Federal funds to supplement child-support payments by absent fathers.
Other policy options envisioned ''greater uniformity in eligibility rules'' for food stamps, energy assistance and welfare benefits; ''unified check-writing for these programs,'' and consolidation of Government field offices, so poor people could apply for the various types of assistance at one site.
 
Revised Formula Rejected
Under another proposal, the Federal Government would have revised the formula for distributing welfare and Medicaid money, to increase payments to cities and states with the highest poverty rates.
Thirty-two million Americans live in poverty, as defined by the Government, and at least 2.5 million of them are part of an unofficial underclass, said by researchers to include female-headed families and high school dropouts who are chronically unemployed.
Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan all proposed major changes in the nation's anti-poverty programs within months of taking office. Bush Administration officials said they wanted to carry out changes made in the Reagan years, including a 1988 law that encourages welfare recipients to find jobs.
The Administration analyzed pros and cons of each alternative proposed by the interagency group. The proposal for more family planning services said, ''In-school clinics can be established in high-poverty areas with high rates of out-of-wedlock births.''
 
'May Cause Political Problems'
The Administration rejected the idea because it ''will cost money'' and would be seen as ''encouraging promiscuity,'' even though the White House said it could also reduce teen pregnancy and the number of single-parent families. The Administration also said the proposal ''may cause political problems among groups that are opposed to birth control.''
Likewise, the White House acknowledged that a major new ''investment in children'' would have a big payoff for American society in the long run, but it shelved the idea after concluding that it was ''not likely to show an immediate reward.''
Under another proposal, Congress would have been asked to establish a statutory ''standard for determining child support payments, typically a fixed percentage of the absent parent's gross income.'' The proposal did not specify the minimum benefit, but noted that an amount of about $3,500 for each child had been discussed.
''Government funding would fill any gap between the minimum benefit and the amount paid by the absent parent,'' the proposal said.
 
'Work Disincentives' Seen
The Administration decided against this proposal after concluding that it would create ''work disincentives for absent parents'' and might require ''significant Federal outlays,'' because many fathers could not ''make a full payment of the minimum benefit.'' Five million women are entitled to child support under court orders, but 25 percent receive nothing from the absent fathers and another 25 percent receive only partial payments.
Although Administration officials could not agree on specific proposals to reduce poverty, they did agree on a theme to link existing programs. The message, as described in papers circulated among Cabinet members, is that ''an effective anti-poverty system must provide 'economic empowerment' for American families, to enable them to participate fully in the mainstream of the economy.''
 
New Head of the Group
The senior adviser who began the search for an anti-poverty policy last year, Dr. William L. Roper, was Director of the White House Office of Policy Development and chairman of the interagency group that conducted the study, the Low-Income Opportunity Board. When Dr. Roper left the White House in March to become director of the Federal Centers for Disease Control, the task was taken over by Richard L. Schmalensee, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Among those who worked on the proposals are Martin H. Gerry, Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for planning and evaluation; Jo Anne B. Barnhart, Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, who is in charge of the nation's main welfare program; S. Anna Kondratas, Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Catherine A. Bertini, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, in charge of the food stamp program; Betsy Brand, Assistant Secretary of Education, and Roberts T. Jones, Assistant Secretary of Labor, in charge of job training programs.
Among the outside experts on poverty who were summoned to the White House for a meeting in September were Isabel V. Sawhill of the Urban Institute, an expert on the underclass; Richard P. Nathan, a moderate Republican who served as a welfare official in the Nixon Administration; Prof. David T. Ellwood of Harvard, a labor economist who has studied the causes of poverty; Douglas J. Besharov, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, and Jack A. Meyer, president of New Directions for Policy, a research institute here.
''The White House told us to be creative and said we should not be constrained by day-to-day budget battles,'' Mr. Meyer recalled in an interview. An Administration official said today: ''The members of the Domestic Policy Council wanted to do something about poverty, but we realized we didn't have any cash. We wanted to adopt a set of principles, but couldn't figure out how to convert our enthusiasm to anything concrete.''
''It was fun to think about these things,'' he said. ''But for the time being, we concluded that we don't want to do anything new, that we should just make things work better and give states more flexibility to do demonstration projects, as President Reagan proposed.''
Here is a summary of some of the options devised by the Administration, with written comments from the White House staff:
* The Federal Government could help residents of high-poverty areas establish ''management corporations'' to fight crime, upgrade schools and repair housing. The White House described this as a high-risk proposal, with no assurance of success.
* Washington could allocate a larger proportion of Federal aid to high-poverty areas. The White House said such a change ''could run into serious political opposition from those states and areas that will lose Federal funds.''
* The Government could ''provide financial subsidies to job contractors to match private-sector job openings with people in identified high-poverty areas.'' The White House said such a program ''could be subject to significant fraud.''
The White House acknowledged that an increase in the earned income tax credit would raise ''the standard of living for poor families.'' But it cautioned that such a change ''exacerbates Federal budgetary problems.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. William L. Roper, who started the search for a strategy to combat poverty, but left in March to become director of the Federal Centers for Disease Control. (The New York Times) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (85%); POVERTY RATES (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); CHILDREN (67%); MEDICAID (65%); TAX LAW (62%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); FAMILY PLANNING (51%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 



134 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: IRAN'S CHIEF LINKS AID TO BETTER TIES

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, July 5

 BODY:
In what appeared to be a forceful appeal for economic and humanitarian aid from the West, President Hashemi Rafsanjani was quoted today as saying there was a direct tie between foreign aid and improved relations with his Government.
''Kindness affects relations,'' Hojatolislam Rafsanjani said in an interview with Iranian journalists that was published today in Teheran newspapers. ''Whether foreign aid has an effect on relations? Our answer is yes.'' 
Mr. Rafsanjani's comments directly contradict statements made earlier this week by his Interior Minister, and they seem to be yet another signal to the United States and other Western nations that Iran wants improved ties.
The propriety of accepting foreign aid from some of this country's longstanding enemies, including the United States, has been the subject of raucous debate within the Iranian Government in recent days.
 
U.S. Presence in Persian Gulf
The debate was set off by Iran's decision to accept millions of dollars in aid from the West after the devastating earthquake last month in northern Iran, estimated to have left between 35,000 and 40,000 people dead. President Rafsanjani agreed to accept aid from all countries except Israel and South Africa.
In the interview, Mr. Rafsanjani made what are seen here as boilerplate attacks on the United States, describing it as a country that ''goes insane and perpetrates hysterial acts.'' He was referring specifically to the downing of an Iranian passenger jet by an American warship in the Persian Gulf two years ago this week.
Mr. Rafsanjani also called for new efforts by countries on or near the Persian Gulf to force the United States military out of the seaway.
''Certainly the people of these countries are opposed to such presence,'' he was quoted as saying. ''The U.S. presence is only in the interest of a few rulers'' in the gulf who want to insure that the United States ''will remain on their side,'' he continued.
 
'Trying to Open Doors'
But on the question of foreign humanitarian aid, Mr. Rafsanjani indicated that Iran would continue to accept it from virtually all countries, including the United States. As Iran begins the huge effort to rebuild areas of northern Iran ravaged by the earthquake, he said, the aid could only improve a country's relations with Iran.
 
Women's Role in Iran
Mr. Rafsanjani also said in the interview that Iran and Iraq ''are closer to peace'' as a result of the first face-to-face talks between the countries' Foreign Ministers. The talks, which focused on final settlement terms of the eight-year Iran-Iraq War, were held in Geneva this week.
In what appeared to be another sign of important changes within Iran, Mr. Rafsanjani said in a speech today that women should play a much larger role in Iranian politics, religion and the arts.
''We must create a system in society in which we can respond to women's needs,'' he said in remarks to a group of women who are seminary students and athletes. ''In order for society to work more constructively, for our economic wheels to gain speed, we need more women in the work force.''
If Mr. Rafsanjani acts on his words, it could mean broad changes in the way women are treated in this country. Laws imposed after the Islamic Revolution in 1979 have severely restricted the entrance of women into the work force and have hindered the ability of women who are employed to interact with male colleagues.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, who said in an interview that international aid for the earthquake victims would have an effect on foreign relations. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAN (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EARTHQUAKES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WOMEN (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WRITERS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; RAFSANJANI, HASHEMI (PRES) HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (93%); 



135 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8
 
A crucial summit conference opened with calls by President Bush and other leaders for a reshaped NATO alliance that would reassure the Soviet Union of the West's pacific intentions and guard against a revival of Soviet expansionism. Page A1

 
Reporter's Notebook: For Bush, life on the run catches up A6

 
The 28th Communist Party congress is not an ordinary political convention. The symbiosis of security forces and the Communist Party has become the target of mounting pressure both inside and outside the party. A1

 
Gorbachev appears certain of election to keep party post A7

 
An East German automobile plant faces stiff competition from Western manufacturers. Workers at the factory fear that plummeting orders will soon mean widespread layoffs. A6 
 
 
Vaclav Havel was re-elected President of Czechoslovakia by the Parliament, completing the first phase of the country's transition to a Western-style democracy. A8

 
Serbia suspends government of Albanian region A8

 
A bitter environmental controversy has erupted in South Africa over the Government's plan to let a company from Taiwan kill up to 30,500 Cape fur seals each year along the Atlantic coastline of the Western Cape. A2

 
Liberian troops reported to loot capital shops A2

 
Iran's President issued an appeal for economic and humanitarian aid from the West. Hashemi Rafsanjani was quoted as saying there was a direct tie between foreign aid and improved relations with his Government. A2

 
Riots broke out throughout England moments after the national soccer team lost to West Germany in the World Cup soccer tournament. The rampages ended with two deaths and 600 arrests. A3

 
Ulster talks delayed as Dublin weighs its role A3

 
The Government of Myanmar, formerly Burma, took more than a month to count the votes in the election of May 27. But it may not be until September that the Government will allow the National Assembly to meet. A3

 
NATIONAL A9-12
 
No new efforts to combat poverty will be proposed by the Bush Administration, White House officials said. The Administration had considered a variety of ambitious options. A1

 
San Francisco's mayor ousts homeless camp A10

 
Specialist physicians and hospitals are battling over the revenues generated by advanced testing equipment and life-support machines. Some of the fights over these lucrative procedures are ending up in court. A1

 
High costs forced closing of rural hospitals, study finds A10

 
The American Institute of Architects was sued by the Justice Department, which contended that the professional group unreasonably restrained price competition. A1

 
Sherman Act's 100 years of protecting competition A12

 
Euthanasia would be legalized in some cases in Washington State if a citizen campaign gets its way. Organizers say they have gathered a third of the 150,000 signatures needed by the end of the year to put the measure before the Legislature. A9

 
Two supporters of Mayor Barry looked likely to get permission to attend his trial by a Federal appeals court. Louis Farrakhan, the Muslim leader, and Bishop George Stallings Jr. had been barred by the trial judge. A11

 
A third witness says she saw Barry use cocaine A11

 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson announced that he would run for the office of ''statehood senator'' from the District of Columbia, a new post created by the city government to lobby Congress for statehood. A9

 
Washington at Work: Jim Sasser, reluctant budget chief A12

 
Men who received a growth hormone for a six-month trial gained almost 9 percent in lean body mass, dropped nearly 15 percent in body fat and regained a youthful thickness to their skin, researchers said. A9

 
Lab says most missing equipment is found A10

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
New York City's Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, was handed his first significant setback when a state judge in Queens declared that he could not interfere in the selection of district superintendents by the city's 32 community school boards. A1

 
The agency that tests teachers and others seeking licenses for New York City schools has been blocked by Mr. Fernandez from giving a test that would have enabled some employees to become supervisors. B1

 
Long Island Sound is badly polluted. Parts of it are so fouled that the waterway faces long-term environmental damage, say scientists, officials and conservation groups. A1

 
A New York State judicial panel has cautioned one of the state's most powerful judges, Francis T. Murphy Jr., against interfering - or even the appearance of interfering - with disciplinary proceedings against lawyers within his jurisdiction. B1

 
Political contributions can open doors in New York. Five investment concerns were recently selected to underwrite $6 billion in city bonds, and it now turns out that all five were major contributors to the campaigns of the Mayor and the Comptroller. B1

 
Cuomo requests inquiry on sale of L.I. raceway B4

Ex-union official is convicted of labor racketeering B3

 
Sections of a pair of SoHo streets will take on a purer 19th-century look during the next two years: they will be repaved by hand with a type of cobblestone known as Belgian block. B1

 
Partial closing of F.D.R. drive is announced B4

Central Park witness says rape victim ''hung to life'' B3

Youth, 14, dies after fireworks explode in can B3

Dart attacker sketched by police B3

Police officer shoots robbery suspect B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
WEEKEND
 
Events: Weekender Guide C1

A Jean Renoir retrospective C1

Arts panel seeks review for four rejected grants C3

Theater: On Stage C2

''A Silent Thunder'' C11

Film: At the Movies C6

''The Cassandra Cat'' C6

''Jetsons: The Movie'' C8

Eight films from Africa C10

Music: Summergarden concerts begin tonight C5

Dewey Redman, saxophonist C15

Merle Haggard, traditionalist C20

Dance: Jacob's Pillow C3

Art: Group shows C1

Alice Aycock's sculptures C21

Photojournalism exhibition C22

Auctions C17

Restaurants C18

Word and Image:
A new ''Eminent Victorians'' C26

TV Weekend C24

African echoes in New Orleans C26

 
OBITUARIES A14, A16
 
Paul Wynne, broadcaster of AIDS diary A14

Mitch Snyder, advocate for homeless A16

 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Mets beat Braves A17

Yanks guilty of tampering A17

Nine suspended for brawling A18

Steinbrenner hearing held A18

Spira pleads not guilty A18

Three Mets on All-Star squad A18

Column: Anderson on Steinbrenner A17

Tennis: Garrison upsets Graf A17

 
LAW PAGE B5
 
Off to camp in search of a leg up on law school
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A24

 
Keeping score on S & L's
Not quite the fountain of youth
Ducking the Constitution
Cut the custodians down to size
 
Letters A24

Anthony Lewis: America's future A25

Clifford A. Kupchan, Charles A. Kupchan: Concert of Europe A25

C. Fred Bergsten: Raising taxes will strengthen Bush A25

Susan Lee: Who pays for the Clean Air Act? A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (92%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CLOSINGS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); RIOTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); SOCCER (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); MARINE MAMMALS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); HOSPITALS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); RURAL HEALTH (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); 



136 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Olongapo Journal;
Sailors Can't Paint the Town, So Sin Trade Pales

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OLONGAPO, the Philippines

 BODY:
In this sleazy, honky-tonk town, which grew up out of the huge Subic Bay Naval Base to service it, the effect of new threats by Communist insurgents to kill Americans can be measured in beer.
Three American servicemen were killed in May, one here and two in Angeles, near Clark Air Base, on the eve of exploratory talks on a new United States-Philippine bases agreement to replace the one that expires in September 1991.
Since then, American servicemen have been restricted to the bases or their homes from 7 P.M. to 7 A.M., and the raucous, promiscuous carnival of discos, beer halls, bars, bar girls, massage parlors and short-time hotels has had its plug pulled.
Boy Leonardo is the district manager for San Miguel beer. ''Business is down at least 80 percent,'' he said, gesturing to some of his salesmen, whom he was taking out to dinner for their morale. ''Places buying 100 cases of San Miguel a week are down to a case or two a day.'' 
 
Girls Go Back Home
At least five clubs and discos have already shut down, Mr. Leonardo said, and others are laying off workers or providing three days off a week. ''Some of the girls,'' he said sadly, ''have already gone back to the provinces.''
Fil Rivero, an artist and T-shirt entrepreneur who stocks 1,000 designs that appeal to American military macho (''If the Good Lord made anything better than San Miguel beer and Filipino women, he keeps it for himself''), has now laid off 24 of his 42 employees.
By 7:30 P.M., Olongapo's main strip, Magsaysay Drive, is forlorn. The lights to the State Rock Tavern, the Top Gun Lounge and the Miami Inn still beckon, but most businesses are either shut or empty. Upstairs, in the Hot City disco, young women with numbered pins on their dresses, for better identification by sailors in more normal times, huddle together giggling on the dark dance floor.
The manager of Hot City and its associated Playmate Disco said that times are bad for a staff that normally numbers about 150, including almost 100 ''waitresses'' and ''entertainers.'' The manager, a fleshy, motherly woman poring over her accounts, said that if the curfew wasn't lifted soon, they might have to close down. Who Killed the Sergeant? In Manila, Western diplomats say that leave hours may soon be extended until 11 P.M., in part because of local complaints. Mayor Richard Gordon of Olongapo is convinced the death here on May 4 of Sgt. John S. Fredette, shot near the strip, was a robbery, not the work of the New People's Army, the Communist rebel group. Some senior Western diplomats agree. The Communists did not claim that killing, as they did the deaths of the two Americans shot near Clark on May 14.
But another senior Western diplomat said flatly: ''The intelligence people are absolutely persuaded it was an N.P.A. hit.''
The Communist rebels have broadened their targets to include other Americans, and as a result Peace Corps volunteers have been withdrawn from the Philippines.
Olongapo businessmen see their current problems as but a taste of what would happen to this city of 250,000 people if the American military was forced to leave the Philippines.
 
Priest Rails at Sex Business
''It would be a disaster,'' said Salvador Austria, an optometrist and bar owner who wears four rings and says proudly that ''if American boys happen to fight in my clubs, they don't pay for the damage.''
''Oh, but it would be a blessing,'' said the Rev. Shay Cullen, an Irishman and Columban missionary who has lived in the Philippines for 21 years. ''This city is the most vicious form of human exploitation that can be imagined.''
Father Cullen works with the women and children most vulnerable, he says, ''to the sex trade of demand and supply, controlled by a corrupt, feudal political order dominated by the presence of a huge, U.S. military base that makes the demands.'' Mayor Gordon intermittently tries to get the priest expelled from the Philippines.
 
'The American Way'
''The Seventh Fleet is supposed to defend the American way,'' he said. ''Well, if sexual abuse of children is the American way, I'd like to see what Congress says about it.''
As he spoke, the boom of shells from an American naval exercise echoed off the hills surrounding Subic Bay. ''I'd like the cost of one of those shells for education,'' he said, and then returned to his theme: ''If American parents knew what their boys were up to, they'd be outraged.''
United States Navy officials will not comment on Father Cullen, but say only that they investigate all charges against American personnel and cooperate fully with local authorities.
 
What About Christina
Japan and South Korea outgrew their brothel towns outside military bases, he said; so, in time, would the Philippines. Mayor Gordon's view is similar, but more pungent: ''Now it's Japanese women who are keeping American sailors,'' he said. ''The problem isn't just morality, but poverty.''
Still, opposition to a new bases agreement is founded more on questions of morality and exploitation than those of economics or security, even in a country everyone acknowledges has a navy and an air force incapable of defending its borders.
Christina, 22 years old, is hanging around on the street. Born in the provinces, she has been here four years. She says she sleeps with Americans to support her family. If the bases close, she said, ''I guess I'd go back home and find something to do.''
But what she really wants, she said, is an American sailor to take her to the United States. ''I still hope I can find a guy to take care of me and marry me,'' she said earnestly. ''If the bases are here, I still have a chance.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Servicemen at American bases in the Philippines, like the Subic Bay Naval Base, have been under a curfew after three killings in May. Businessmen in Olongapo, outside the Subic Bay base, see the loss of business as but a taste of what will happen if the U.S. military is forced to leave the country. (Steven Erlanger/The New York Times); Map: Olongapo, the Philippines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN MIGUEL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES; OLONGAPO (PHILIPPINES)

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); WOMEN (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); MASSAGE SERVICES (55%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN RICHARD GORDON (63%); SHAY CULLEN (59%); 



137 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
For Bush, Life on the Run Catches Up

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 5

 BODY:
You may find this hard to believe, but President Bush originally wanted to make a day trip out of his visit to London for the meeting of the Atlantic alliance.
Fortunately, it turned into a two-day event, because the strain of life at the gallop seems to be catching up with the man who would be the Environmental President, the Education President, the Fitness President and the Diplomat President.
Despite his vast resources of energy, Mr. Bush seemed exhausted and a bit grumpy today after what should have been just another routine dash across the Atlantic Ocean - a mere six-hour flight through the dead of night across five time zones for a 36-hour meeting to redefine the military structures of Europe.
Confident that he could handle this with his usual verve, Mr. Bush, who is 66 years old, spent five days at his Maine retreat with his usual breakneck round of throwing horseshoes, casting fishing lures, bashing golf balls and careering across the waves in his speedboat. Instead of arriving in London a day before the meeting began, Mr. Bush squeezed in one more golf game on Wednesday morning, and left that night. 
But here, it seemed that the bottomless well of energy had a bottom after all. Mr. Bush got off Air Force One looking tired, eyes puffy and his stride less spry than the ''spring colt'' to which he always compares himself.
The President seemed to be nursing a cold, punctuating Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's opening statement with a raucous sneeze and a loud blast into his handkerchief.
But Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman, perservered. He gamely described his boss as ''amazingly spry and energetic,'' and White House aides went back to planning Friday's trip - back west across six time zones to Houston, where he and six other leaders will discuss the changing economic structures of the world.
 
Cooling His Heels
Perhaps it was fatigue, but Mr. Bush seemed to have lost the graciousness he generally shows at the snags and gaffes of summitry. The final straw came at the end of the day's meetings, when he found himself cooling his heels in front of the sternly classical Lancaster House for five minutes while anxious Secret Service agents scurried about hunting for his limousine.
Mr. Bush tried to shrug it off, chatting with a British protocol officer. But he soon dropped the conversation and craned his neck around, pursed his lips, stuck his hands in his pockets and glared at the nearest aide until his car finally appeared.
Mr. Bush walked quickly to the passenger door, clambered aboard and sprawled gratefully in the backseat.
 
A Testy Thatcher
There is something about this sort of high-level meeting that brings out the tart side of Prime Minister Thatcher.
While her colleagues from France, the United States, West Germany and other countries talked of the dawning of a new era, Mrs. Thatcher seemed icily determined to be the voice of caution.
In Lancaster House, the grand house just off The Mall where Charles Sumner and William Lloyd Garrison once tried to persuade Britain to oppose slavery in America, Mrs. Thatcher said she had reread two books to prepare for the talks.
One was ''Fighting for Peace,'' the autobiography of Caspar W. Weinberger Jr., the former Secretary of Defense, who still does not trust the Russians. The other was ''Barbarossa'' by Alan Clark, the story of the German invasion of Russia in 1941.
Mrs. Thatcher read a verse from the preface to the latter book: ''Two things have altered not since first the world began/The beauty of the wild green Earth and the bravery of man.'' Who's Specially Related? For diplomats and reporters covering NATO, the game of the day is ''Find the Special Relationship.''
After the personal warmth that developed between Mrs. Thatcher and President Reagan, the Bush-Thatcher relationship seems cool and British officials have become increasingly irked at the attention Mr. Bush is paying to Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany.
They were not amused when the West German Embassy held a special briefing for British reporters to talk about the cooperation and identity of interests between the United States and West Germany.
''It looks to us,'' a senior Foreign Office official said, ''as if the special relationship runs from Bonn to Washington these days.''
 
Brotherly Rivalry
It has become common in Washington to talk about the rivalry beneath the brotherly relationship between Mr. Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d.
This is partly because Mr. Baker has a taste for the dramatic and a flair for press relations that seem to elude Mr. Bush. Mr. Baker has occasionally upstaged the President on major announcements and today, apparently inadvertently, he took center stage again for a moment.
When the two left Winfield House, the American Ambassador's residence, for the drive to Lancaster House, Mr. Baker ended up in the limousine seat intended for Mr. Bush.
Thus, when the car pulled up and Mrs. Thatcher stepped forward, it was Mr. Baker who emerged to shake her hand.
The President of the United States had to scramble around the car to reach the red carpet. But Up in the Air . . . Mr. Baker may have been first out of the limo and the second most powerful man in Washington, but to British air traffic controllers, he was just another troublesome blip on the radar screen.
Mr. Baker took off for London from Brussels at about 7 P.M. on Wednesday after a meeting of 24 Western countries about aid for emerging democracies of Eastern Europe.
He had only a half tank of fuel for the quick hop. But Mr. Baker's Air Force plane arrived a half-hour ahead of schedule, or so he was told by London air traffic control, which ordered him to circle for an hour.
As Mr. Baker fumed, the American Embassy called 10 Downing Street, which in turn called the London tower and ordered them to get the Baker plane on the ground.
But Mr. Baker was short of fuel as well as patience and flew to Mildenhall Air Base 75 miles northeast of London near Cambridge, where American F-111's took off in 1986 to bomb Libya.
Ninety minutes later, cleared for London at last, Mr. Baker reboarded his plane, where a reporter observed wryly, ''Nice to travel with a guy who's got some clout.''
The Secretary of State, the President's best friend, smiled gamely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); HIKING (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



138 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Jim Sasser, Reluctant Budget Chief Who Cornered President on Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 5

 BODY:
Senator Jim Sasser has detested math since grade school. He says he has no taste for intricate things, unless that means tinkering with the engine of a rust-coated 1967 Jaguar, now sidelined in the Senate garage, that he has been trying to fix up for years.
Yet there he sits, chairman by default of the Senate Budget Committee.
''For some people, the Federal budget is just a fascinating document, like the fellow who wants to sit around and work on a Rubik's Cube - it appeals to the same mentalities,'' the Tennessee Democrat said, hunching over a coffee table in his office, miming intense scrutiny of a budget. ''I didn't become a United States Senator to sit around and worry about the fine details of some kind of a dairy milk cow processing program or something like that.'' 
 
Putting Pressure on Bush
Whether by fortuitous timing or political acumen or both, Mr. Sasser has turned his disdain for decimal points into an asset. He has emerged as his party's point man - some less delicately say mouthpiece - in the war with the White House over the budget. He is also the one who stiffened Democrats' spines on the issue of making President Bush go first. As the keeper of the party line before the cameras, his partisan swipes helped build the pressure that led the Mr. Bush to renounce his ''no new taxes'' campaign pledge.
''You never know what's under a rock until you turn it over,'' said Senator Dale Bumpers, an Arkansas Democrat who is a close friend of Mr. Sasser's. ''When they turned that one over, and Jim Sasser emerged, they found a rare and unique guy who had been overlooked.''
Lost, not overlooked, is the word a number of Mr. Sasser's colleagues would have used. Since he came to Washington on the coattails of Jimmy Carter in 1976, Mr. Sasser has preferred the sidelines, rarely seeming comfortable attaching himself to great issues of the day. He stood by as younger, newer members - the junior Senator from Tennessee, Al Gore, for one - became better known inside and outside the Senate.
In an interview in his capital office during the Fourth of July recess, the 53-year-old Mr. Sasser relaxed in an armchair and spoke in a rambling Tennessee drawl, like a man in no hurry, and for all the world like a man unriled by a reputation that he has little patience for substance and that he has taken too long to make his mark.
''If I had come in here the first two or three years and tried to be a pretty flashy and superficial type of Senator,'' he said, ''I think it would have diminished my effectiveness in the long run.''
 
A Creature of Senate
''Perhaps I am more a creature of the Senate than Al,'' he said of Senator Gore, who was just 40 years old when he made a Presidential run in 1988. ''Let's face it, Al's seen a lot of it before. He grew up as the son of a Senator. That perhaps might make him more interested in moving to the big job. I tried to help him all I could. I think people make a great mistake if they sit around and become consumed by envy.''
Mr. Sasser was reluctantly thrust into the budget panel's top job after the chairman, Senator Lawton Chiles of Florida, decided to retire in 1988 and the two most senior Democrats in line for the post were unwilling to give up other chairmanships.
''I didn't really want it,'' Mr. Sasser said, adding that he would much rather head the Foreign Relations or Armed Services committees. ''The budget is almost an insoluble dilemma. But I got the job and I can see myself now, in some ways, actually enjoying it.''
Party leaders have turned to Senator Wyche Fowler Jr., a freshman from Georgia, to be the inside tactician at the budget negotiations. Mr. Sasser has become the outside man emerging from the closed sessions, tossing out red meat to reporters, often in colorful, though sometimes mangled, metaphors.
''Simply putting a new suit on that old corpse isn't going to revive it,'' he recently said after the Bush Administration presented a budget plan.
The White House is eager for budget talks because ''they saw that this horse was about to get out of the barn before they got it bridled,'' he said after winning $118 at the Kentucky Derby on a colt named Unbridled. Another time, he characterized the Administration's offer as warmed over, saying, ''The odor hasn't improved overnight.''
 
Challenging the White House
Suddenly, the man who says he is not a showboat, who says his biggest failing in politics is that he does not have an oversize ego, is challenging the White House on the evening news.
Mr. Sasser's style served the Democrats so well in the early days of the budget talks that often at the chairman's impromptu briefings outside the negotiating room, the panel's ranking Republican, Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, would show up to keep tabs on what Mr. Sasser was saying and then turn to the microphones to dish out his version.
Richard G. Darman, the head of the Office of Management and Budget, a numbers-cruncher extraordinaire, is Mr. Sasser's antithesis, and there is no love lost between the two.
After describing the White House budget plan at a private session, Mr. Darman is said to have mounted a not-so-subtle attack on Mr. Sasser, declaring, ''I know there's one person who thinks it stinks.''
Mr. Darman declines to discuss his relations with Mr. Sasser. Mr. Sasser insists that there is nothing personal in their differences. ''I don't know what I've done that offended him particularly,'' he said.
''We may represent two different segments of American society,'' he said. ''He's highly educated, wealthy. My grandfather was a dirt farmer and my father was a civil servant. Maybe I look at the budget and Federal priorities more from the point of view of how they impact people.''
 
Lessons From Kefauver
Mr. Sasser, who has a moderate-to-liberal voting record, encourages the comparison to a former Democratic Senator from Tennessee, Estes Kefauver, a crusading populist who died in 1963. While he was attending law school at Vanderbilt University, Mr. Sasser would carry the Senator's bags and drive him around the state when he returned to Tennessee.
''From Kefauver, I learned the importance of retail, personal campaign politicking,'' he said. ''He was a great big bumbling sort of fellow and everybody instantly took a liking to him and wanted to help him. I'm not any more polished that Estes was. He was a graduate of Yale Law School and many people accused him of being an intellectual, masquerading as a bumpkin. People perceive me as mild mannered, accommodating, nonthreatening.''
Mr. Sasser knows how to spin a good tale, and he still manages to portray himself back home more as the Southern gentleman and less as the Washington insider. He takes great pride in the fact that Bill Monroe, often called the father of bluegrass, turned to him in a moment of need.
It was 1983, and President Ronald Reagan had invited several country music stars to the White House. ''Old Bill was wearing his big 10-gallon hat and all the trappings,'' Mr. Sasser says. ''Bill had forgotten that he had this big horse pistol in his briefcase.''
Luckily, Mr. Monroe did not bring his briefcase into the White House. But Mr. Sasser says that on his way home, the metal detector picked it up at National Airport here, and that Mr. Monroe was immediately grabbed by the police and hauled off to a nearby jail and booked.
 
Only One Phone Call
But he knew he could get his Senator on the phone. ''He had one telephone call,'' Mr. Sasser says, shaking his head, ''so he called over here. We got a lawyer and went over there and got old Bill out.''
So convincing is Mr. Sasser in his efforts to play down his own importance, that he even seems to question his place in the Senate, conceding something that few of his colleagues would dare whisper: ''It's not that I am so unique that others couldn't do as good a job as I would do.''
Mr. Sasser readily admits that there are many who know more about fiscal matters. Lance Simmens, the Senator's former economic counsel, remembers gently prodding his boss to attend committee meetings.
''He'd just kind of roll his eyes and say, 'Oh, do we have to listen to more of this?' Mr. Simmens recalls. ''Sometimes I had to pull him over there. But he always came.''
For all the professionally disarming style, Mr. Sasser is a former trial lawyer with pure partisan instincts. He used his three-year chairmanship of the Tennessee Democratic Party to establish a base of political support for his first campaign for political office in 1976, when he shocked the political establishment by running a successful campaign against the well-to-do incumbent, Senator William E. Brock 3d, by portraying himself as a man of the people.
Some would say it is only by happenstance that now, nearly 15 years later, the political instincts of the reluctant chairman of the Senate Budget Committee are re-emerging.
''With experience and seniority, he has gained courage and self-confidence,'' said Albert Gore Sr., the former Senator, who was something of a mentor to Mr. Sasser. ''He's coming along in a regular way.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jim Sasser was reluctantly thrust into the chairmanship of the Senate Budget Committee in 1988 after the two most senior Democrats in line for the post were unwilling to give up other chairmanships. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE (71%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON BUDGET

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; SASSER, JIM (SEN); SASSER, JIM (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) GEORGE W BUSH (72%); AL GORE (59%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); 



139 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Paul Wynne, Who Aired Diary on AIDS, Dies at 47

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 5

 BODY:
Paul Wynne, a broadcast journalist whose on-the-air diary about AIDS made television history, died of AIDS today at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center here. He was 47 years old.
Mr. Wynne, an entertainment reporter for three San Francisco television stations from 1972 to 1984, returned to the air in January 1990 with ''Paul Wynne's Journal,'' a firsthand account of his fears and triumphs as he moved toward death. 
Even in San Francisco, a city probably more sophisticated about AIDS than any other in the nation, the segment was stunning television, shocking for some viewers, inspiring for others and a ''reason to get up in the morning'' for its dying star.
The diary won rave reviews from television critics in the area. And KGO-TV, the local ABC affiliate that broadcast the journal, received scores of telephone calls and letters, a vast majority praising the station for its courage and Mr. Wynne for putting a face on the dread disease.
 
Taped From Hospital Bed
While the diary was available to other stations across the country, only one other broadcast it: KCET-TV in Los Angeles, which showed 18 installments of the diary on a weekend in June when the Sixth International AIDS Conference was being held in San Francisco and gay men and women in the United States were celebrating Gay Pride Week.
The series was taped from Mr. Wynne's hospital bed in recent weeks as his health deteriorated. The segments were often witty, but their subject matter changed as he became weaker.
Early in the series Mr. Wynne said he would not surrender to the paraphernalia of advanced AIDS, including the cane or the walker, but in a later segment he acknowledged that he had moved ''into the wheelchair phase.''
In another late segment, his face gaunt and his eyes hollow, Mr. Wynne told viewers, ''I'm very sick and I'm very weak; my life is very joyless and I'm very afraid.''
 
Commentary on Entertainment
Mr. Wynne was born in Shenandoah, Iowa, and grew up in Hillsboro, Ore. He received a bachelor's degree in theater from Willamette University in Salem, Ore., then served in the Army, where he began his journalism career at the armed forces television station in Fort Gordon, Ga.
In 1979, after leaving the military, he moved to San Francisco, where he held a series of jobs at local television stations, most of them doing commentary about entertainment. In 1984, while working at KGO-TV, the station decided not to renew his contract. After that he received no offers for on-the-air work and was unemployed.
In January, a former colleague at KGO carried Mr. Wynne's idea for an on-the-air diary to the station managers, who leaped at the chance to break new ground. The show was an immediate hit.
Mr. Wynne is survived by his father, Harold Wynne of Lincoln City, Ore., and by two stepbrothers, Brad Wynne of Centreville, Va., and Greg Wynne of Westchester, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Wynne (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SALEM, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AIDS & HIV (96%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); ARMIES (78%); 

PERSON: WYNNE, PAUL; GROSS, JANE HAROLD WYNNE (95%); PAUL WYNNE (72%); 



140 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: What's a Doctor of Law but Hyperbole Anyway?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The French academic credentials of Pierre A. Rinfret, Republican nominee for governor of New York, are clearly not fungible with an American Ph.D. (front page, June 19), but before he is cast into outer darkness, a word might be said about ''degree inflation.'' The most egregious instance was the instant transformation of the old law degree, L.L.B., or Bachelor of Laws, into the chic J.D., or Doctor of Law. The actual equivalent of the Ph.D. in law is the S.J.D., Doctor of Jurisprudential Science, a degree awarded on completion of a substantial dissertation. The L.L.B. (alias J.D.) only proves that its recipient has emerged successfully from three years of processing in a sausage factory.
How this alchemist's dream was accomplished remains shrouded in mystery. The simple hypothesis is that law school deans, in possible violation of antitrust laws, engaged in a brilliant conspiracy some 25 years ago to up-scale the style of their products. However, this cannot be proven, or even brought to the threshold of litigation, as all lawyers are ''partis pris,'' all judges would have to recuse themselves, and the Fifth Amendment guarantee against self-incrimination would provide blanket protection.
This is not written with animosity, but with great respect for the elegance with which this coup was executed. In this world, to paraphrase St. Augustine, you take your breaks where you find them; poor Pierre Rinfret had not yet attained the market smarts to make him ''Dr.'' on the cheap.
 
JOHN P. ROCHE
 Medford, Mass., June 21, 1990
 
The writer is the John M. Olin Distinguished Professor of American Civilization and Foreign Affairs at Tufts University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ST AUGUSTINE RECORD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: DEGREES, ACADEMIC; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAWYERS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); LITIGATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; RINFRET, PIERRE A PIERRE A RINFRET (78%); 



141 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Raising Taxes Will Strengthen Bush

BYLINE: By C. Fred Bergsten; C. Fred Bergsten is director of the Institute for International Economics, a policy research organization.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Democrats and many Republicans believe that President Bush's endorsement of higher taxes will hurt him politically. But they ignore the four major benefits that a successful resolution of the U.S. budget problem would provide.
First, interest rates would fall. The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, predicts that long-term rates, which drive investment and thus growth, could decline by two full percentage points. Key areas of the economy, such as housing, auto purchases and corporate spending on new equipment, should pick up quickly. The Fed must of course assure the needed monetary easing as soon as the budget package is sealed and delivered. 
Second, the trade balance would improve. The dollar would weaken with lower interest rates and, along with the lower cost of capital itself, boost American competitiveness. This, in turn, would help American companies to capitalize on the continuing economic booms in Europe and Asia. Lower dollar interest rates would also ease the debt burden in Latin America and expand the region's capacity to buy abroad.
Lower interest rates and stronger trade should offset, or more than offset, the adverse effects of a tighter budget on the economy. The U.S. can enjoy export-led growth for the next several years, benefiting from strong foreign markets in the 1990's just as we benefited from heavy infusions of foreign capital in the 1980's.
To be sure, correcting the budget imbalance would have been safer several years ago, when the economy was stronger. But the risks will almost certainly grow if action is delayed further. Moreover, any recession now would probably be quite mild and short-lived, with growth resuming by 1992. For the longer run, strong private investment and trade improvement provide a much sounder basis for sustained growth than the consumption-led, Government-financed expansion of the 1980's.
Third, fiscal policy can again become an active tool of economic policy. Today, with the deficit at current and prospective levels, the Government has virtually no way to respond if the economy falls into recession. Nor can we count on the Fed for monetary stimulation; not with a fiscal imbalance that would rise sharply in a recession and remain an inflationary threat. Budget action now would promote growth later as well as sooner.
Fourth, American foreign policy would strengthen substantially. Our credibility has been damaged by our unwillingness to provide even modest resources to support democratization in Eastern Europe and Latin America, international attacks on environmental degradation and initiatives in other areas. Budget correction would enable the U.S. to become a serious global player and leader again.
Notice that Japan responded immediately to the President's shift on taxes with new concessions last week, permitting a successful conclusion of the Structural Impediments Initiative. Mr. Bush's hand will be far stronger at the Houston summit meeting next week.
The magnitude of all these benefits will depend on the degree to which the President's willingness to raise taxes catalyzes both real spending cuts and a definitive resolution of the budget problem. The wisest course, economically and politically, is to agree promptly on specific measures to eliminate the deficit fully over the next four or five years.
The world of the 1990's and beyond will turn heavily on economic developments. The U.S. faces extremely tough competition from a uniting Europe, from Japan and from emerging powers in East Asia and elsewhere. Both our domestic prosperity and our global position depend on meeting that competition successfully. Budget correction is a central element in doing so.
Thus, President Bush's new stance on taxes marks his greatest contribution to the national interest to date. It may turn out to be his best political step as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: BERGSTEN, C FRED; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 



142 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Who Pays for the Clean Air Act?

BYLINE: By Susan Lee; Susan Lee is writing a book on the origins of economic crises.

 BODY:
This time around, Washington couldn't be prouder. Twenty years ago, when the major provisions of the Clean Air Act were passed, the word ''cost'' was hardly mentioned. Now, with the bill in a House-Senate conference, the debate over amendments to the act is filled with figures purporting to capture the cost of the tiniest provision.
The trouble is, it's all hot air. Nobody has any idea what it will cost -worse, there has been a conspiracy of silence on who will pay the bill. 
There are plenty of estimates of the total cost. Unfortunately, the range is large; respectable guesses run from $22 billion to more than $100 billion a year, and almost nobody is willing to declare any number definitive.
As laughably flabby as the cost estimates are, at least they define the territory. Getting a grasp on the dollar number for the benefits is like charting Planet Debbie - virtually impossible. The problem is that the benefits from cleaner air are broad. They include everything from fewer deaths from lung cancer to more relief from sinus headaches.
Thus, estimating the money saved has to take into account profound speculation - like the value of a life (perhaps $2 million to $5 million), savings in medical costs and days lost due to respiratory diseases. It should include, too, less profound categories such as less frequent house painting and reduced damage to national monuments. Toting this up is a mug's game; unsurprisingly, there are no reliable estimates of the benefits.
Why, then, do we seem so eager to pass legislation that could be as expensive as $100 billion a year without knowing whether the benefits will justify the cost? Simply put, the discussion has not focused on who, ultimately, will pay; instead, there is an implicit promise that the Clean Air Act will be a free lunch.
Ask who will pay the bill, and the answer is that business will have to ante up. Granted, the added cost will be felt first by the tens of thousands of businesses that must comply with new regulations on acid rain, toxic emissions and urban smog.
Utilities will have to cut back on cheaper high-sulfur coal and use more expensive low-sulfur coal or install scrubbers to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions. Auto companies will have to limit tailpipe emissions of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide, and small businesses like bakeries, gas stations and restaurants will have to control their use of alcohol- and petroleum-based products that contribute to smog. Chemical and steel companies - and dry cleaners, auto body shops and pest control companies -will have to buy new equipment to control airborne toxic substances. But in the final analysis, business doesn't pay. We pay. Business will pass the increased cost along. Either consumers will pay in the form of higher prices for products or services, or workers will pay in the form of lower wages, or shareholders will pay in the form of lower dividends or stock prices.
That means we all will pay more for electricity, gasoline, cars, bread and paint. Workers in affected industries, like steel and mining, will absorb the cost by receiving lower pay hikes or benefits. People who own stock in utility or oil companies will find their dividends are lower or their stocks are worth less. And owners of mom-and-pop dry cleaners will take out less profit.
There is an indirect cost to all of us, too, because the economy won't grow as fast as it could otherwise. After all, money spent for pollution control cannot be spent to make widgets. Likewise, it cannot be spent for new equipment to produce widgets more efficiently.
Finally, the added cost to business will diminish the attractiveness of doing business here, and companies will relocate to other countries, taking production and jobs with them.
Perhaps the blank-check aspect of the Clean Air Act cannot be avoided. The law will mandate what experts agree are sensible goals, and incorporate efficient ways of achieving those goals; the cost will follow. But Congress, the Administration and environmentalists should come clean and point out who will ultimately cough up the money. Twenty-two billion dollars to $100 billion would buy a lot of research on breast cancer, Alzheimer's and heart disease. That's a significant trade-off - one that ought to be considered since the direct cost could be $90 to $450 a person a year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CLEAN AIR ACT AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); SMOG (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ACID RAIN (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); CANCER (67%); ALCOHOLS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (64%); GAS STATIONS (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (54%); LUNG CANCER (52%); 

PERSON: LEE, SUSAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



143 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
America's Future

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: ASPEN, Colo.

 BODY:
Children were the theme of the International Design Conference in Aspen this year. For a week the participants heard architects, designers, teachers, psychologists and others talk about the needs of children. And all about, their own children played on giant balls, painted, built constructions and generally demonstrated the wonders of youthful imagination.
But in addition to those happy scenes there were reminders of a different and somber reality. Children are poor in extraordinarily large numbers. They are less healthy than their parents. The community gives them less care than any other of the rich industrialized societies gives its children. 
More than 20 percent of American children live below the official poverty line. In cities, the figure is 30 percent. Minority children are far more likely to be poor: 45 percent of black and 39 percent of Hispanic children. In this rich country 100,000 children are homeless.
A commission established by the American Medical Association and the National Association of State Boards of Education reported last month that American teen-agers have profound problems of physical and emotional health. The commission was made up of medical, education and business leaders, including former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop.
On an average day, the commission said, 135,000 students bring guns to school. Every year 1 million teen-age girls, almost a tenth of the age group, become pregnant; 2.5 million adolescents contract a sexually transmitted disease. More than 1 million are regular users of drugs. Alcohol-related accidents are the leading cause of death among teen-agers.
''Never before,'' the commission said, ''has one generation of American teen-agers been less healthy, less cared-for or less prepared for life than their parents were at the same age.'' The report said, as its figures indicated, that the problems are largely behavioral: excessive drinking, drug use, sex and violence.
Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, told the Aspen conference that in today's younger generation the rich are afflicted as are the poor. They, too, abuse drugs, alcohol and sex. They, too, seek instant gratification - and attention.
Distorted values in the young must reflect the social climate, Ms. Edelman said. We, the grown-ups, set the standards of ''personal greed rather than the common good.'' Our political system allowed two million children to fall into poverty in the 1980's while the number of billionaires quintupled. We talk about ''family values'' but don't practice them.
Changing the social climate is a long-run business. But there are immediate steps that can be taken to improve the condition of underprivileged children - and end what really is a national scandal.
Health is one area of clear need. All the advanced countries of the world except the United States have national systems of health insurance that give everyone access to medical care. But even failing that kind of universal system, this country could assure that the young get health care.
The A.M.A.-Boards of Education commission urged that teen-agers be guaranteed access to health services, including counseling, regardless of their ability to pay. The country's interest in the health of younger children is just as great. The problem is especially acute because working poor families often have jobs with no medical insurance.
Another area where progress can be made is child care. Both houses of Congress passed a comprehensive bill last year to help provide care for needy children of working mothers, but a final bill was never agreed. Surely the obstacles should be cleared away now.
President Bush has a particular opportunity for leadership. The country's responsibility to its children is a natural subject for him, involving as it does family values and the need for a stronger, better educated society in America's future.
One important symbolic step for the President is to join the World Summit for Children, which will take place at the United Nations Sept. 29 and 30. The idea comes from Unicef, the U.N. Children's Fund. Many heads of state and government are going to attend, and President Bush will surely want to take advantage of the opportunity.
There are so many things to be done for children. The co-chairman of the Aspen conference, Jane Clark Chermayeff, said: ''It's not that we don't know what to do. It's that we're not doing it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE BOARDS OF EDUCATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); SURGEON GENERAL (55%); SURGEON GENERAL (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); CHILD POVERTY (79%); FAMILY (79%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); CHILD WELFARE (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (69%); POLITICS (69%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); SCANDALS (65%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (54%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (52%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY CHARLES EVERETT 'C EVERETT' KOOP (55%); 



144 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins and Holtzman Contributors Handling City Bonds

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
Five investment concerns were recently selected to be underwriters for $6 billion in New York City bonds, and it now turns out, to no one's great surprise, that all five were major contributors to the campaigns last year of Mayor David N. Dinkins and City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman.
But so were companies that were not selected. And there lies an adage widely accepted by those doing business with the city: political contributions may not decide the race, but they help you to reach the starting gate.
The five contributed a total of $233,000 to the city's two top officeholders. They did so largely by packaging individual contributions from their employees - a process known as bundling that circumvents the spirit of the city's new campaign finance law, which was intended to keep big money out of municipal campaigns. 
The companies, picked last month by representatives of the Mayor and the Comptroller from a field of 53 companies, stand to make millions of dollars in fees for underwriting the bonds over the next two years. They are Bear Stearns & Company, First Boston Corporation, Goldman Sachs & Company, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Shearson Lehman Hutton. Officials of the companies said their donations were motivated only by good citizenship, but one official, who asked not to be identified, said, ''It's fair to say that the perception exists in the industry that since my competitors are making large contributions, I better make them too.''
The State Commission on Government Integrity, in its studies of campaign contributions to state and city officials, had reported that major shares of the campaign donations to State Comptroller Edward V. Regan and Ms. Holtzman's predecessor as City Comptroller, Harrison J. Goldin, had come from the investment banking community, which seeks bond underwriting contracts from both officials.
Spokesmen for the Mayor and the Comptroller, like the investment bankers, denied that the contributions were a factor in the underwriter selection process, but other City Hall aides familiar with the selection process, who asked not be identified, said that while the size of campaign contributions might not be the determining factor in selecting an underwriter, it was a consideration, particularly as many of the competitors are equally qualified.
''There was absolutely no consideration whatsoever given to the level of contributions, if any,'' said Albert Scardino, the Mayor's press secretary. ''They were evaluated on the basis of which could deliver the best services to the city and give the best interest rate.''
Glenn Goldberg, Ms. Holtzman's press aide, said the underwriter selection process was ''competitive and merit-based.'' He said the underwriters represented ''a balance of institutional and retail'' firms.
 
'Extension of Our Philanthropy'
Alan Greenberg, chief executive officer of Bear Stearns, echoed his investment banking colleagues when he said that the company contributed to politicians because ''you can't have a country without people running for office.'' He said the donations were ''an extension of our philanthropy.''
All five concerns contributed to both candidates directly and through employees.
Among the contributors were 28 employees of the First Boston Corporation, who gave $32,205 to Mr. Dinkins in donations ranging from $10 to $3,000. Fifty-eight employees of Goldman Sachs contributed $41,545 to Mr. Dinkins, while the concern's political action committee gave $6,000 to the Mayor.
Bear Stearns donated at least $3,100 to Ms. Holtzman as a corporation, and 103 of its employees gave an additional $34,550. Thirty-four Shearson Lehman employes donated at least $21,075 to the Holtzman campaign.
The contributions were backed up by politically influential officials of the companies. Robert Steingut, son of the late Stanely Steingut, the former Assembly Speaker, was a negotiator for Bear Stearns, while Ronald T. Gault, the negotiator for First Boston, was a Koch administration official and is a longtime friend of Mr. Dinkins. He contributed at least $2,500 to the Dinkins campaign.
 
Particularly Disappointed
Two concerns that were reported by City Hall aides to be particularly disappointed by their failure to win the underwriting contract had also been big contributors through their employees.
One, Prudential Bache Securities, and its employees had donated $24,730 to the Dinkins campaign, and Morgan Stanley & Company and its workers, $24,540. In contrast, employees of another losing bidder, Dillon Read & Company donated a relatively modest $4,545.
The employee contributions would normally be hard to track under the state election law, which does not require contributors to identify their employers. But the city law requires contributors to list their employers, and ''bundling'' can be tracked in the computerized records of the new City Campaign Finance Board.
The five underwriters represent an expansion of the city's underwriting group. In 1988, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch were selected, but Merrill Lynch was dropped last summer on orders of Mayor Edward I. Koch because the concern was transferring some of its operations to New Jersey. It is now back on the list.
Two other politically influential concerns were selected for the first time as senior managers for a newly created equipment-financing program. Grigsby, Branford & Powell, which was described as a minority-owned firm by the Mayor's office, donated a total of $9,760 to the Dinkins campaign. The other concern, the Artemis Capital Group, which is owned by women, according to the Mayor's office, was not listed as a contributor.
 
Recommended by Committee
The five underwriting concerns were recommended by a committee of representatives of the Dinkins administration and the Comptroller's office, with the advice of two companies serving as the city's new financial advisers, the Public Resources Advisory Group and P. G. Corbin, a minority-owned concern. Each company gave at least $2,000 to the Dinkins campaign.
The underwriters were chosen through negotiations rather than competitive bidding, and the committee considered such factors as bond-marketing ability, outlets, other services and fees.
Carol Bellamy, the former City Council President and a partner in Morgan Stanley before she announced her candidacy for state comptroller in May, said she was involved in Morgan Stanley's losing bid to be a financial adviser to the city but was not part of the concern's futile effort to share in the underwriting.
She said that she was not familiar with the current underwriter selection process but that ''in the Koch-Goldin years, I happen to think they were more above board and less political than in many other cities and states.''
But a person familiar with the city selection process said the joint Mayor-Comptroller committee is generally ''instructed'' by the Mayor and the Comptroller. ''They are not agents on a frolic,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spokesmen for New York City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman and Mayor David N. Dinkins said that political contributions from five investment concerns last year did not play a role in the companies being selected recently as underwriters for $6 billion in city bonds. (The New York Times); Table listing underwriters' campaign contributions. (Source: New York City Campaign Finance Board) pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; FIRST BOSTON CORP; SHEARSON LEHMAN HUTTON HOLDINGS INC; MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; MAYORS; COMPTROLLERS MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ETHICS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (DIST ATTY); LYNN, FRANK DAVID N DINKINS (92%); ELIZABETH HOLTZMAN (84%); 



145 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
The Group Show as Crystal Ball

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
THE group exhibition, that end-of-season ritual, is upon us, and with it comes the opportunity to take the art world's pulse. This year, these shows seem to be everywhere, uptown and down, with something to offer nearly every esthetic palate. Many of them are simply reprises of each gallery's stable of artists, but several exhibitions in SoHo, of which six are reviewed here, concentrate on emerging or little-known artists and offer some signs of things to come.
These shows mix styles and media, high points and low points, and several artists appear in more than one of them. They may lack in overall esthetic impressiveness, not to mention cohesiveness. But they say a lot about a younger generation of artists that has been waiting, somewhat restively, in the wings over the past season.
Fit into a nutshell, the signals they send might sound like this: Ostentation is out. The turn away from drop-dead, picture-perfect objects that reek of costly fabrication processes a la Jeff Koons and Ashley Bickerton continues. On the rise is the emphasis on simple techniques, hand-making, modest scale and inexpensive (preferably recycled, possibly organic) materials. Social concern in one form or another is in, and so is the kind of self-expression that delves unblinkingly into sexual or racial identity or oppression, or into class structure. 
The Conceptual impulse in object-making is as strong as ever, evident most directly in drawings and sculptures that incorporate language. Not surprisingly in these post-Mapplethorpe times, some of the words are the three-, four- and five-letter kind. There's also a frequent disregard for the art object that makes the early 90's sometimes feel a bit like the early 70's, and a concomitant rise not only in installation art, but also in performance work among the younger set. Finally, painting and abstract art in general are in such short supply -at least in these shows - that they seem more and more like a daring thing to do.
Above all: The pressure to make art about politics, especially sexual politics, is very real, what with the multi-headed Gorgon of AIDS, the abortion battle, the environment, American involvement in Central America and the debates on obscenity and freedom of speech. But in typical art-world fashion, this pressure is also coalescing into a fad, a bandwagon with many passengers of varying talent.
This weekend's exhibitions fall into two groups. The three most tightly focused ones attest to the emphasis on sexual and racial politics in art today, while three other shows offer broader views in hodgepodge surveys of 40 to 80 small works or drawings.
The relatively focused exhibitions are ''Eros/Thanatos; Death and Desire,'' at the Tom Cugliani Gallery (508 Greenwich Street, through July 17); ''Membership Has Its Privileges,'' at Lang & O'Hara (568 Broadway, at Prince Street, through July 27), and an exhibition at Wessel O'Connor (580 Broadway, near Prince Street, through July 14). This last show features the work of Ridgeway Bennett, a pair of young artists who hail originally from Zimbabwe and have worked together for nearly a decade, Marlene McCarty (who also appears in the other two shows) and Dread Scott (whose artwork using the American flag caused a furor at the Art Institute of Chicago last spring).
 Tom Cugliani Gallery
The work in these three shows runs from the personal to the documentary, from the subtle to the obvious. In the 11-artist exhibition at Cugliani, Jack Pierson has simply pinned dozens of snapshots of the same young man to the wall, an off-handed summary of sexual desire, while Hunter Reynolds's photographs trace his transformation from bearded man to heavily made-up Tootsie-like woman. Steven Evans and John Lindell deal, respectively, with male nudity and profanity, but in ways that are almost impossible to see. Deciphering their motifs relegates the viewer to the position of a squinting, narrow-minded voyeur.
Robin Kahn's paintinglike embroidery gives visual form to an obsession shared by both sexes, at least in America: it catalogues variations in the size and shape of women's breasts, while also acknowledging female nudity as one of painting's historical subjects. Ms. McCarty makes a similar acknowledgement; her small canvases reduce the female genitalia to four- and five-letter words, spelled out in blunt, computer-type graphics. At Lang & O'Hara, with a bit more economy and wit, Ms. McCarty exhibits a painting whose central vertical stripe, reminiscent of a Barnett Newman ''zip,'' spells out the word ''Testosterone.''
 
Wessel O'Connor
At Wessel O'Connor, in addition to Ms. McCarty's works, there are paintings by Ridgeway Bennett that merge sex and religion using a cross-like geometry, a three-letter word and a surface that includes a great deal of wax and, says the press release, some semen. Dread Scott attempts to mix the documentary with the spatially claustrophobic in an installation work titled ''Kinder and Gentler.'' The piece consists of four listening booths labeled, like restrooms, for whites, blacks, ladies and gentlemen only. Its main impact stems from two audio tapes the artist has spliced, one about violence against blacks, the other about violence against women, both of which begin with the urgent yet cadenced voice of Ntozake Shange performing her own work.
 
Lang & O'Hara
In ''Membership Has Its Privileges,'' the 10-artist exhibition at Lang & O'Hara, the scene shifts more to the country club set, to the presence rather than the absence of power and to the institutions that power generates. Sometimes this is quite literal: just inside the gallery door, Janet Bigg's grim little paintings invite us to consider the uninviting modern architecture of eight churches and libraries, each labeled with an imitation bronze plaque.
In a work titled ''Greek System,'' Kenneth Goldsmith, who is present in four of these shows, uses some old school fraternity paddles labeled with the Greek words for misogynist, egoist, conformist and so forth to imply a system of exclusion. And Dennis Farber hand-paints an innocent 1950's photograph of a child's birthday party, converting its participants into pre-school members of the Ku Klux Klan.
In the remaining group shows, the number of artists rises dramatically and, with it, the viewpoint broadens. Clearly not every emerging artist is making political art. In fact ''Meet,'' an exhibition at the Althea Viafora Gallery that weighs in with 42 artists, and ''Work on Paper'' at the Paula Allen Gallery, bear more than a passing resemblance to a survey of old-fashioned drawings. Like most, they show how artists continue to both accept and push against the definition of the medium.
 
Viafora Gallery
At Viafora (568 Broadway, at Prince Street, through July 21), Lily van der Stokker's ''Ja,'' a small, bright-colored marker drawing, condenses graffiti to a pleasing domestic scale. Matthew Barney's ''Drawing Restraint II (Documents)'' turns the act of drawing into a feat of engineering (and wall climbing). Also noteworthy are works by Kirsten Mosher, Christian Marclay, Tishan Hsu, Elliot Green and the ubiquitous Mr. Goldsmith (who, judging from these four ''at bats,'' may be at his best on paper).
 
Paula Allen Gallery
The Paula Allen show, with 81 artists, throws an even wider net, with a fair amount of humor in the catch. Fred Tomaselli turns out a beautiful rendition of famous constellations, naming each star for a different sleeping pill. With suave cartoonship, Kay Rosen's ''Classic Pair'' proposes that more than one King Xerxes be called Xeroxes. Kevin Carter smears the ink lines on a sheet of tablet paper to spell ''Drunk.'' And Howard Halle exhibits what may be the first Gorbachev-Bush shopping bag. Further interest - amusing or otherwise - is supplied by Dan Appel, David Hammons, Sean Landers, Kim Jones, Judy Ledgerwood, Zoe Leonard, Hunter Reynolds, Nicolas Rule, Ms. van der Stokker, Pamela Golden and B. Wurtz. The show remains on view at 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, through next Friday.
 
Andrea Rosen Gallery
The final mega-group show is ''Stendhal Syndrome: The Cure,'' a theme show with a gimmick at the Andrea Rosen Gallery (130 Prince Street, through Aug. 4). Working with Catherine Liu, a writer, and Curtiss Mitchell, one of the artists in the show, Ms. Rosen invited 48 artists to devise a cure for the so-called Stendhal syndrome, whose victims are usually travelers felled by the beauty of works of art. (Fittingly enough, the problem was isolated by a psychiatrist in Florence.) Each artist was given a white metal first-aid kit to work with, and many, although certainly not all, ended up using it. The power of music is several times proposed as an antidote to visual overload, but otherwise the cures offered are as various as the sensibilities of the artists involved. Joan Waltemath lined her kit with fur and play money and titled the result ''An Antidote Is Not a Cure,'' while Christian Marclay simply blew his up, exhibiting the charred remains as a piece of sculpture.
But the extremes of response are perhaps best summed up in those of Jessica Diamond and Felix Gonzalez-Torres. Ms. Diamond's wall drawing quotes a passage from Nabokov and then asks in effect, Who needs a cure?, while also directing those who ''can't take the heat'' to the nearest television set.
Mr. Gonzalez-Torres exhibits a box containing photographs, postcards, documents and newspaper clippings that center on the brutal murder, in Portland, Ore., in November 1988, of an Ethiopian immigrant by a gang of skinheads. Nothing cures esthetic overindulgence like a stiff dose of reality, the artist seems to say, a sentiment that, for better and for worse, many of his generation seem to share.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Classic Pair,'' by Kay Rosen, at the Paula Allen Gallery, is in one of the many shows exhibiting works by a younger generation of artists. (Paula Allen) (pg. C1); Installation view of ''Stendhal Syndrome: The Cure,'' at Andrea Rosen Gallery. 9Peter Muscato/Andrea Rosen Gallery); ''Natures Way,'' by Matthew McCaslin, at Andrea Rosen Gallery. (Andrea Rosen Gallery); ''The Party,'' 1989, a hand-painted photograph by Dennis Farber, at Lang & O'Hara. (Lang & O'Hara) (pg. C23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); RACE & RACISM (65%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA JEFF KOONS (55%); 



146 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Regulators will open enforcement proceedings involving failed savings and loans to the public. They inaugurated the policy, a sharp reversal, by detailing charges in four pending cases, including the one involving Neil Bush. [Page D1.] 
Fed officials decided to hold rates unchanged for the time being, officials outside the Fed said, despite pressure from the White House and Congress to lower interest rates quickly to try to prevent a recession. [D1.]
Sales of domestically produced cars and light trucks jumped 12.5 percent in late June, surprising analysts and raising hopes among auto executives that the industry had turned a corner after a nine-month slump. [D1.]
The Justice Department filed a suit against the American Institute of Architects, contending that the professional group unreasonably restrained price competition. [A1.]
Many hospitals are battling with specialist physicians over the revenues generated by advanced testing equipment and life-support machines. [A1.]
 
 
 
Companies
Ernst & Young will not be able to accept new audit business in the New York region for 45 days because of an order by an administrative law judge involving defective audits. [D1.]
A partnership led by Irwin Jacobs and Amway sold a large block of Avon common stock to Chartwell Associates, the partnership said. [D4.]
UAL suspended negotiations for a large aircraft purchase at the request of the employee group trying to buy the company. [D4.]
 
International
Workers at a Trabant factory, one of the largest and most famous in East Germany, are in no mood for joking these days about the pollution-spewing car they make. Some 11,000 employees began working reduced shifts, usually just four hours a day. [A6.]
 
 
 
Markets
A tax on the sale of securities is among dozens of revenue-raising ideas being discussed in the White House and in Congress, but Administration officials said the odds now seemed to be strongly against such a tax. [D2.]
Mutual stock funds turned in a strong performance in the second quarter, with health and environmental stock funds leading the way. As a group, though, general equity funds still underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. [D1.]
In a matter of hours, stocks gave up most of what they had gained in the last five sessions. After waves of program selling, the Dow recovered slightly, closing off 32.42, at 2,879.21. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and interest rates rose slightly in fairly light trading, as dealers positioned themselves for the release this morning of June employment data. [D12.]
The dollar closed mostly higher on world currency markets in light and uneventful trading. [D13.] Corn and soybean futures prices fell sharply after a forecast of rain in the Midwest. [D13.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
West Germany has won its friendly bid for East Germany, in what will probably be the most expensive takeover in history. It has gained not only a lot of real estate and 16 million more Germans, including 10 million workers, but also a host of decrepit factories, rundown roads and other poor public facilities. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Rap music is rapidly moving into the mainstream of American society, and advertisers are hearing - and starting to borrow - the beat. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D5.]
Most money managers earned less in the stock market in the first six months than they would have earned with Treasury bills, according to estimates. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FUTURES (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); COMMON STOCK (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIRCRAFT DEALERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (69%); CORN MARKETS (69%); JUDGES (69%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (66%); CURRENCIES (65%); 



147 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Late-June Vehicle Sales Rose 12.5%

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 5

 BODY:
Sales of domestically produced cars and light trucks jumped 12.5 percent in late June, surprising analysts and raising hopes among auto executives that the industry had turned a corner after a nine-month slump.
The gains were shared by the General Motors Corporation, whose vehicle sales rose 17.8 percent, and by the Ford Motor Company, with a gain of 4.5 percent. The Chrysler Corporation's sales, however, fell despite an aggressive advertising campaign.
Many industry experts, at a loss to explain the late-June surge, said they expected auto sales to decline again in the next few months. Although auto sales in all of June were the best in five months, they still lagged June last year by 1.6 percent. 
 
Continued High Sales Doubted
''If sales continue at this level for the next few months, we may want to declare the auto recession over,'' said Scott Merlis, an automotive analyst at Morgan Stanley. But Mr. Merlis said he regarded June auto sales as a level that the industry will not be able to attain again until next year. ''Last month's sales were above the recent trend, and I would not be surprised to see them drop back down,'' he said.
''Weak underlying demand and a cautious consumer will hold further increases in check,'' said Tom Webb, chief economist of the National Automobile Dealers Association, which represents 25,000 car dealerships.
In late June, cars sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 8 million, the highest rate since early January. The monthly sales rate of 7 million for all of June was also the highest since January, when buyers flocked to take advantage of hefty rebates and other financial incentives.
 
Incentives Dipped Industrywide
Incentives actually dipped industrywide by an average of about $200 a model in June. Economic indicators, such as income growth and interest rates, have not favored a spurt in car purchases, analysts said.
Similar late-month increases have been reported at other times this year, an anomaly some analysts attributed to the reporting systems of several of the Japanese auto makers that produce cars in the United States and tend to post the bulk of their sales at the end of each month.
For General Motors, the late-June gains came from the strong sales of a bevy of its compact and mid-sized models, particularly the Geo Metro and Storm, the Pontiac Sunbird and Grand Prix, and the recently introduced Chevrolet Lumina.
''For some time now, G.M. has outperformed its domestic rivals,'' said Jack V. Kirnan, an automotive analyst at Kidder, Peabody. ''G.M. has a lot of product momentum with its new vehicles so far this year.''
While General Motors and Ford both had gains, Chrysler's combined car and truck sales fell 11 percent in late June, and the performance of the nation's No. 3 auto maker was equaled for the second time this year by Honda, which reported it sold as many of its American-made cars as Chrysler.
 
Japanese Vehicle Sales Up
Indeed, the Japanese transplants increased vehicle sales 53.4 percent in late June, while the Big Three reported overall sales gains of only 7.7 percent.
For all of June, sales of cars imported from Japan fell 5.5 percent, and European imports declined even further. The Big Three also posted sales declines totaling 7.1 percent in cars, while their overall sales of light trucks rose 2 percent.
The largest sales gains for the full month were reported by the Japanese transplants, which increased car sales by 55 percent and won 4 points of market share over a year earlier.
Although analysts are generally skeptical that sales will continue to improve, the domestic auto makers are expecting a sales surge in the second half of the year, judging by their aggressive production plans.
At production meetings last week, the 11 domestic car producers added 62,000 cars and light trucks to their schedules for the third quarter, bringing the total planned output to 2.5 million for July through September, a 12 percent increase over last year's third-quarter production.
If the car companies hold to their preliminary production fourth-quarter schedules, the industry will wind up only about 5 percent below 1989's total output. Those plans could be upset, however, if the United Automobile Workers union, whose contract expires in mid-September, calls a strike.
 
Stocks of Unsold Cars Low
Dealer stocks of unsold cars are fairly low and are likely to remain below normal levels for the next few months, as many auto plants in the United States and Canada have begun extended shutdowns for vacations and new-model retooling. Mr. Webb, of the automobile dealers association, said the low inventories had halted the slide in dealership profits, at least for now.
Some analysts said strong auto sales in June may increase auto makers' profits for the second half of the year, because dealers will have to replenish their inventories.Car companies book revenues when they sell vehicles to dealers.
''This could be the first summer since 1984 when the domestic auto makers won't have to resort to big blowout incentives to get rid of their current models to make way for new ones,'' said Mr. Kirnan, at Kidder, Peabody.
J.B. Fitzpatrick, vice president of marketing and product planning at G.M., said that General Motors market share has improved steadily during the year, to 36.4 percent in June, an increase of four-tenths of a percent compared with a year ago.
By contrast, Ford's share of the domestic market fell to 23.8 percent in June, compared with 24.3 percent a year earlier. And Chrysler lost two full points of market share, falling to 12.1 percent, from 14.1 percent a year earlier.
The decline in sales and market share at Chrysler comes despite several months of aggressive advertising, including a recent campaign that compares Chrysler cars favorably to Honda automobiles.
''Chrysler's heavy advertising does not seem to be doing the company any good at all,'' Mr. Kirnan said.
Honda increased its share of the United States market to 6.8 percent in June, compared with 4.2 percent a year ago, as sales of its cars built in Marysville, Ohio, rose sharply.
The Toyota Motor Corporation also increased sales of its cars and trucks in June, assembled in Georgetown, Ky. But sales of imported Toyota vehicles fell in June, resulting in an overall United States sales decline of 5.6 percent for Japan's largest auto maker and a slight loss of market share, to 6.5 percent.
The Nissan Motor Company reported declines in sales of both imported and domestically produced vehicles, as overall sales fell 17.7 percent, and its market share dipped nearly a point, to 4.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart of seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for American-made cars. (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; ADVERTISING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES REBATES (79%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C



148 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: No Change Seen at Fed On Rates

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Despite pressure from the White House and Congress to lower interest rates quickly to try to prevent a recession, the Federal Reserve apparently decided at a policy meeting this week to hold rates unchanged for the time being.
That was the assessment yesterday by some top Government officials outside the Fed and by Wall Street economists who monitor the central bank's activity. But the Fed's governing body did reportedly give some ground, the officials said, adopting a resolution that expressed a new willingness to lower rates. Such a resolution means that action could come this month if fresh data show that the economy is indeed sliding toward recession. 
The secretive Fed gave no hint of what its policy makers - its governors and the presidents of its regional banks - decided at the meeting on Monday and Tuesday in Washington. No sign of sympathy toward lower rates showed in the Fed's dealings in the Treasury securities markets yesterday. And Joseph Coyne, a Fed spokesman, declined to comment on reports that the policy makers had approved a new ''bias toward easing'' rates.
 
New Bias May Have No Effect
The new bias, in fact, may never be converted into lower rates. But in the arcane language of the Fed, the resolution expressed a greater willingness to lower rates than existed at the last policy meeting, in mid-May - if the mounting anecdotal evidence of a weakening economy also shows up in fresh statistical data. Since early this year the Fed has expressed no special inclination either to raise or lower rates.
''This is a very dicey time,'' said Robert Di Clemente, a Fed watcher at Salomon Brothers Inc. ''It could be we are on the verge of a recession, but the signals are mixed. It isn't as if the economy is going down in a straight decline.''
The first test of the central bank's intentions could come today, with the Labor Department's release of June employment numbers. Jobs have been growing much more slowly this year than last, and if the June figures show more weakness, the Fed might act.
 
What the Fed Could Do
If the Fed did act, it would do so by increasing bank reserves, thus setting off a chain of events that would lower interest rates. The chain of events set off by this action would lower interest rates on a variety of consumer and business loans. The lower rates usually encourage more borrowing to finance purchases and investment, thus stimulating the economy. Sometimes the rising activity pushes prices up, making the inflation rate rise.
But weak employment numbers might not be enough to make the Fed act, in the view of many experts. As recently as mid-June, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said publicly that while the American economy was growing sluggishly, recession was a declining prospect, not a growing one.
Fear of a recession prompted the Fed to lower interest rates slightly in early November and again in late December. Shortly afterward, however, Government data showed strong activity in home construction and a sharply rising inflation rate, a surge in economic activity that lasted through the first quarter. But data released in May and June indicated that retail sales had deteriorated, along with consumer spending and construction activity. The only clearly strong sector was exports of manufactured goods.
 
'A Widespread Uneasiness'
''You don't find the confidence in the economy that you once did, at any level, in the small towns or the cities,'' said Representative Lee H. Hamilton, Democrat of Indiana and chairman of Congress's Joint Economic Committee, who traveled in the Midwest this week. ''There is a widespread uneasiness; that's the best word to describe it.''
Apart from the state of the economy, the pressure on the Fed to lower rates stems from President Bush's new proposal to bleed roughly $50 billion from the budget deficit in a single year through a combination of increased tax revenues and reductions in Government spending. The twin actions would weaken the economy, by taking spending money from taxpayers' pockets and by reducing Government outlays for a wide range of activities.
The Bush proposal is now the key element in budget negotiations with Congress. But such a cutback in activity would set off a recession, many economists and politicians say, unless the Fed offset the cutback by lowering rates.
 
Traditional Focus on Inflation
The Fed traditionally concentrates on reducing inflation, which it tries to accomplish by manipulating bank reserves in such a way that rates rise for a variety of consumer and business loans. The high rates - home equity loans and long-term mortgage rates, for example, stand at 10 percent or more - are intended to discourage purchases and investments made on credit. Less of such activity, in turn, makes price increases less likely.
But when recession threatens, the central bank comes under pressure to reduce rates to encourage the borrowing that finances spending and investment, even at the risk of higher inflation. And right now Congress and the Bush Administration are campaigning vigorously for lower rates.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, for example, criticized the Fed yesterday for sticking stubbornly to inflation-fighting. ''In the United States it is not wise to emphasize an undying attack on inflation if it hampers economic growth,'' he said in a breakfast meeting yesterday with reporters.
 
Other Voices for Lower Rates
Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director, have also called on the central bank in recent days to lower rates to stimulate a sluggish economy in danger of recession. And in a rare attack on the Fed, Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said in a Senate speech on June 18 that the Fed was fighting the wrong battle.
''What is the Federal Reserve trying to fix?'' he asked. ''If it is inflation, currently there is little evidence in the numbers that it needs fixing. Looking at the economic numbers, it is clear that adequate real growth, not inflation, should be our major concern.''
The inflation rate as measured by the Consumer Price Index has hovered around 4.5 percent a year for several years, although it jumped to an annual rate of more than 5 percent in the first quarter of this year.
 
Greenspan's Argument
Mr. Greenspan has argued that a plan to reduce the budget deficit significantly - a plan persuasive enough to make it credible to the the public and the financial markets -would result in lower interest rates without any Fed action. Among other things, chronic deficits raise expectations of inflation, and as these deficits subside, so do the interest rates that lenders charge to offset inflation, Mr. Greenspan and other economists argue.
But Mr. Brady said yesterday that Mr. Greenspan should help the deficit reduction negotiations along by taking the lead in lowering rates and not waiting for them to fall on their own. ''I've said to him that I don't think we should wait around,'' Mr. Brady said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); INFLATION (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



149 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sundstrand Sees Drop in Earnings

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: ROCKFORD, Ill., July 5

 BODY:
The Sundstrand Corporation said it expected second-quarter earnings to be down about $7 million because of losses from its Brazilian operation. In May, when business in Brazil almost came to a halt because of the Government's anti-inflation program, Sundstrand's Brazilian operation reduced its work force of 429 by 30 percent, to 318.
Sundstrand, which makes equipment for agriculture, construction and industry, said it had overcome most of the adverse results of its Brazilian operation and did not expect signficant additional losses from Brazil for the rest of 1990. In the the second quarter of 1989, Sundstrand earned $34.5 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNS (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SUNDSTRAND CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNDSTRAND CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); LABOR FORCE (84%); 



150 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Madison Ave. Turns an Ear To Rap Music

BYLINE: By KIM FOLTZ

 BODY:
YO, Madison Avenue!
Rap music, the fastest-growing genre of popular music, is rapidly moving into the mainstream of American society. Now, not surprisingly, a growing number of advertisers are trying to cash in on rap's popularity.
British Knights, a New York athletic footwear company, recently said it would use the popular rap artist M. C. Hammer to give its commercials a hip-hop beat. Coca-Cola used a rap group in a new Sprite ad, and Pepsi has the Grammy Award-winner Young MC rapping the praises of ''Cool Cans,'' its big summer promotion. In addition, a number of agencies said they plan to use rap music in coming campaigns. 
Rap is characterized by rhythmic music and rhymed lyrics that are chanted to a driving beat. Although it originated in urban black communities in the 1970's, rap has broadened its appeal to include a diverse, but primarily young, audience that many advertisers are trying to reach.
This fall, for example, NBC plans to broadcast a new comedy, ''Fresh Prince of Bel Air,'' featuring the rap singer Wil Smith.
''Rap is the coming thing,'' said John Gross, a spokesman for J.S.M. Music, a New York-based music production company. ''We're working on a lot of demonstration tapes for advertisers that use rap.''
But some marketing experts warned that using rap in advertising could be risky because it could alienate many consumers.
''Advertisers that are using rap are gambling on the future,'' said Al Ries, the chairman of Trout & Ries, a strategic marketing consulting firm. ''Rap has had a lot of trouble cleaning itself up, and there's still no guarantee that it will totally move into the mainstream.''
Rap has been criticized for lyrics that are sometimes sexually explicit and for the violence that has accompanied some concerts. Although many rap music groups have toned down the anti-establishment messages in their songs and cleaned up their lyrics, the genre's bad-boy image lingers. Most recently, members of the rap group 2 Live Crew were arrested for performing a song that a Florida Federal court had ruled was obscene.
But some advertisers and their agencies are obviously willing to take the chance. One important reason is rap's ability to reach young consumers easily. ''Young people have always had their own language, and this is a way to get them to pay attention,'' said William Katz, a senior vice president at BBDO in New York, which created the Pepsi ''Cool Cans'' commercial. ''We have to be on the leading edge.''
But even so, Pepsi did not take any unnecessary risks. Young MC, who is featured in the ''Cool Cans'' spot, is upbeat and clean-cut, and he has a degree in economics from the University of Southern California. And, for the uninitiated, title cards translate the commercial's rap lyrics.
Aside from its appeal to the youth market, advertisers like rap because it is an effortless way to pack a lot of information into 30 seconds. ''Rap is perfectly tailored to the television commercial's short form,'' said Peter Foulds, the director of advertising at Pepsi. ''It's an easy way to tell a story.''
Some advertising executives also say rap music works better in commercials than some other kinds of popular music because the lyrics are spoken and are therefore more easily understood.
Rap performers have a cautionary note for advertisers. Already, imitations of rap music are cropping up in some commercials and authentic rappers say that is a mistake. ''It's offensive,'' said Marvin Young, who performs under the name Young MC.
''If the point is to reach young people, an imitation isn't going to have the right effect,'' he added. ''Rap fans will know right away when the music isn't the real thing, and the advertising is going to turn them off.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pepsi Cola's new ''Cool Cans'' commercial, prepared by BBDO, features the Grammy Award-winning rap music artist Young MC. Pepsi joins a growing number of advertisers cashing in on rap's popularity. (BBDO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); 

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC; MUSIC; ADVERTISING RAP MUSIC (98%); MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC GENRES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); YOUTH MARKET (75%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); FOOTWEAR (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (51%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



151 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Fall in Light Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and interest rates rose slightly in fairly light trading yesterday, as dealers positioned themselves for the release this morning of June employment data.
The traders pushed prices lower early in the session in reaction to a report in The Wall Street Journal that the Bush Administration was considering whether to impose a sales tax on a wide range of securities, including stocks and bonds. Administration officials said yesterday that the odds were against such a tax.
Adding to the decline was news that automobile sales for the last 10 days of June were far stronger than expected. 
 
Eight Million Cars Sold
Automobile makers sold eight million cars at a seasonally adjusted annual rate during the period, the highest level since the middle of January.
''The numbers were much stronger than anticipated, and were the first sign of consumer strength in some time, but I would be cautious in assuming this means that consumer spending is about to rise,'' said Michael J. Moran, the chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc.
He noted that the domestic manufacturers, especially Honda of America Inc., which sold more cars than the Chrysler Corporation during the late-June sales period, often put on big incentives at the end of each month to spur sales.
''You would need to see additional healthy numbers before concluding that people are spending again,'' Mr. Moran said.
While talk of a securities tax and the auto sales numbers influenced trading to some degree, the dealers said the developments paled in significance next to the job data.
''Potentially, the employment figures are very important for all financial markets, '' a government bond trader said. ''If the bond market sees a good set of numbers, short rates are likely to fall even more, which in all likelihood will have an impact on the stock market and on the dollar.''
 
Predictions on Data
The traders and financial economists have said an increase in nonfarm payroll employment of less than 100,000 would have a salutary effect on interest rates. Conversely, if the employment number rises by 200,000 or more, market interest rates would almost certainly rise, they said.
Excluding census workers, many of whom were dismissed last month, most analysts estimate that non-farm payroll employment rose by about 160,000.
Some of the dealers said they sold securities yesterday to defend against the chance that the employment report might be stronger than anticipated.
By late yesterday, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 103 26/32, down by 6/32, to yield 8.39 percent, up from 8.38 percent late on Tuesday.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered in late trading at 103 5/32, down by 3/32, to yield 8.39 percent. And the 8 3/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 9/ 32, down by 3/32, to yield 8.21 percent. 30-Year Bonds Down to 8.79% Before the coming auctions, the 30-year bonds to be sold on Tuesday for the Resolution Funding Corporation were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 8.79 percent, down slightly from 8.81 percent on Tuesday. The agency was created to finance the bailout of the savings and loan industry.
And the seven-year Treasury notes to be auctioned on Wednesday were offered in late when-issued trading at a price to yield 8.41 percent, up slightly from 8.39 percent.
While the yields on bonds and notes rose slightly, short-term rates on Treasury bills moved in the other direction. The traders said optimism that the job data might prompt the Federal Reserve to ease credit conditions, coupled with a drop in stock prices, generated demand for bills yesterday.
By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.65 percent, down by 3 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates dipped by a basis point, to a late offered rate of 7.56 percent. And one-year bill rates were unchanged, at an offered rate of 7.44 percent.
 
Moody's Upgrades County
In other developments, Moody's Investors Service Inc., which along with other primary ratings agencies has been busily downgrading the creditworthiness of various state and local governments this year, said yesterday that one of the country's critical problem areas in the 1980's had been returned to investment-grade status.
The agency said it had lifted its ratings on Wayne County, Mich., which includes Detroit.
Moody's lifted its ratings on more than $265.9 million worth of Wayne County's outstanding general obligation bonds to Baa, from Ba-1. The county had been rated at less than investment grade since October 1979.
The agency said in a news release that Wayne County was upgraded because it had carried out a state-authorized fiscal stabilization plan.
Activity in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds was light yesterday, the dealers said. The prices of most actively quoted issues were unchanged to up by an eighth of a point.
Meanwhile, the traders of investment-grade corporate bonds said the prices of most issues dipped by about an eighth of a point, largely in sympathy with the decline in Treasury prices.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of Tax-Exempt Yields (source: The Bond Buyer); Freddie Mac Yields (source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (69%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (68%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); PRICES OF TREASURY (61%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BONDS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); CENSUS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



152 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Japan Goals For 1990's

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 5

 BODY:
The Government ministry that helped engineer Japan's export-fueled economic boom says that in the 1990's Japan must turn inward and set its own house in order.
Financing priorities, once almost exclusively aimed at industrial growth, should shift to the nation's frayed infrastructure and frustrated consumers, says an advisory report approved today by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. 
While short on specifics, the ministry's vision for the 1990's addresses many of the demands for economic reform made by the United States in talks that led to last month's agreement on ways to tackle the United States trade deficit with Japan.
These include a push for more spending at home on public works like roads, sewers and parks -''areas in which Japan lags behind other major developed nations,'' a summary of the report said.
The report also repeatedly urges that Japan make life easier for its high-paying consumers, who should have ''the opportunity to choose what to purchase and the chance to decide what price to pay.''
The report also warns, however, that manufacturing is still vital to Japan's economy. It recommends that the Government nearly double financing of research and development to about 1 percent of the gross national product.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); 



153 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Schoeller Closes Yarn Plant in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SUMTER, S.C., July 5

 BODY:
Schoeller Inc.'s plant here will close immediately, putting about 240 people out of work, the Switzerland-based company announced. The company's president, Allen Booth, said from the United States headquarters in Hackensack, N.J., that the decision to close the acrylic yarn-spinning plant had been influenced by low overseas labor costs and recent domestic fashion changes that favor natural fibers.
The Sumter plant opened in the 1940's, and Schoeller bought it in 1962. Mr. Booth said negotiations were under way with several potential buyers for the plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SCHOELLER INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHOELLER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUMTER (SC)

SUBJECT: TEXTILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) TEXTILE MFG (91%); TEXTILE MILLS (91%); YARN & THREAD MILLS (90%); CLOSINGS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); TEXTILES (86%); SYNTHETIC FIBERS (86%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); 

PERSON: ALLEN BOOTH (80%); 



154 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Higher In a Slow Trading Session

BYLINE: The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar closed mostly higher on world currency markets yesterday in light and uneventful trading.
Traders in the United States and Europe attributed the rise to technical factors. Lou Calvello, a trader with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., said several dealers were buying dollars to square up their positions ahead of today's release of unemployment data for June. 
The market has been anticipating the report for several days. ''Hopefully, it will spark some activity,'' said Jim Chorek, an analyst with MMS International in Chicago.
Trading was particularly thin, with many United States investors absent from the market as they extended their holiday, dealers said. United States financial markets were closed Wednesday for Independence Day.
Against the West German currency, the dollar settled in New York at 1.6517 marks, up from European trading and up from its Tuesday close in New York of 1.6505.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose to 151.00 yen from Wednesday's 150.30. In London, the dollar traded lower, at 150.50 yen. It closed higher in New York, at 150.57, against the European close, but lower than its Tuesday close of 151.00 yen.
In London, one British pound cost $1.7795, cheaper for buyers than Wednesday's $1.7845. In New York, it cost $1.7815 to buy one pound, compared with $1.7765 late Tuesday..
In New York, the dollar settled at 1.3998 Swiss francs, up from European trading and from the Tuesday New York close of 1.3930; 5.5430 French francs, up from Europe and from the Tuesday New York close of 5.5400, and 1.1640 Canadian dollars, up from Europe and from 1.1625 on Tuesday.
In the precious metals market, gold prices fell. On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery traded at $361.40 an ounce, off 70 cents from late Tuesday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $360.50, off 50 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (53%); HSB (PAR) (53%); HBC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (58%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (53%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); 

PERSON: TUESDAY NEW YORK (94%); 



155 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Unemployment Edges Down
The unemployment rate dipped to 5.2 percent in June, reducing hope for Government action to lower interest rates. Page 8.
 
Chinese Dissident Speaks
Fang Lizhi, the Chinese dissident who has gone into exile in Britain, said the United States had a ''double standard'' for human rights. Page 3.
 
Barry Tied to Drug Buying
A witness testified that she sold crack to Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington on more than 20 occasions in 1988. Page 8.
 
Lendl Upset at Wimbledon
Stefan Edberg easily defeated Ivan Lendl, and Boris Becker prevailed against Goran Ivanisevic to advance to the Wimbledon final. Page 41.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COCAINE (84%); WITNESSES (53%); 

PERSON: FANG LIZHI (73%); IVAN LENDL (57%); BORIS BECKER (57%); 



156 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 7; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
NATO ALLIES, AFTER 40 YEARS, PROCLAIM END OF COLD WAR; INVITE GORBACHEV TO SPEAK

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 6

 BODY:
President Bush and the other leaders of NATO today issued a declaration to end four decades of cold war by proposing to act jointly with Moscow and other East Europeans in stating that ''we are no longer adversaries.''
Inviting President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to travel to Brussels to speak with them, the Western leaders promised a new defensive strategy that would make their nuclear forces ''truly weapons of last resort.'' They assured Moscow and the other Warsaw Pact nations that ''we will never in any circumstance be the first to use force'' and proposed that NATO, the Warsaw Pact and European states outside the two alliances join in a ''commitment to nonaggression.''
''Our alliance will do its share to overcome the legacy of decades of suspicion,'' they said. [Text, page 5.] 
 
Desire to Help Gorbachev
NATO's Secretary General will fly to Moscow to discuss the declaration with Mr. Gorbachev, whose own policies are under attack in the Soviet Union. Unspoken in the declaration is a desire by most NATO leaders to give Mr. Gorbachev striking evidence to demonstrate to his critics that his conciliatory policy toward the West is bringing results.
Mr. Bush said at a news conference that he thought the declaration would help Mr. Gorbachev deal with his ''hard-liners.'' But he continued to oppose direct American economic aid to the Soviet Union.
The steps taken today were also aimed at making it easier for Mr. Gorbachev to acquiesce to the unification of the Germanys, something specifically called for in the declaration.
In what was called the London Declaration, drafted over the last two days by their foreign ministers in the palace of Lancaster House, the NATO leaders were clearly trying to speak to history in the same ringing tones that the North Atlantic Treaty sent out from Washington at the height of the cold war when the alliance was formed.
 
'The Hand of Friendship'
''The Atlantic Community must reach out to the countries of the East which were our adversaries in the cold war, and extend to them the hand of friendship,'' they said, inviting the members of the crumbling Warsaw Pact to join in a declaration solemnly stating that the era of mutually hostile blocs was over. ''The walls that once confined people and ideas are collapsing,'' the allied heads of government said. ''As a consequence, this alliance must and will adapt.''
In a wide-ranging review of alliance strategy and force levels, the NATO leaders promised to prepare a new defensive approach, using small, multinational light forces stationed far from the former front lines instead of ''forward defense.'' They also pledged to reduce the reliance on nuclear weapons now enshrined in strategy of ''flexible response.''
They invited the Warsaw Pact coun-tries to establish a ''regular diplomatic liaison'' with NATO and agreed to strengthen the role of the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Significantly, they made a major concession to Soviet fears about a united Germany within NATO, and agreeding to set limits on German armed forces as soon as the United States and the Soviet Union signed a treaty reducing their forces stationed in Europe, later this year.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany, who was effusive about the support he said he had received all along from Mr. Bush, said that German troop strength would be one of the topics he would discuss with Mr. Gorbachev when he flies to Moscow on July 15 to try to overcome Mr. Gorbachev's the Soviet leader's remaining objections to German unification.
The initial reaction from Moscow today was favorable. Mr. Gorbachev told ABC News that he saw ''very constructive signs coming out of this summit'' and that he was ''always ready to go'' to Brussels to meet with the Western allies.
 
Bonn Considers Aid to Soviets
Mr. Kohl said today that he would also discuss economic aid to the Soviet Union with Mr. Gorbachev, who sent a letter to Mr. Bush today formally requesting consideration of economic and financial aid for his attempt to transform the Soviet economy, according to American officials said. At a news conference, the President said, ''I have some big problems with that one'' as long as the Soviet Union spent so much on its military establishment and on subsidies for Cuba. But he said he had no objection to a West German decision to provide economic aid.
''As our alliance enters its fifth decade,'' the Western leaders said in their declaration, ''it must continue to provide for the common defense.''
''Yet our alliance must be even more an agent of change,'' they said. ''It can help build the structures of a more united continent.''
Reaffirming that ''security and stability do not lie solely in the military dimension,'' the allies declared:
First Use of Force Disavowed ''We will remain a defensive alliance and will continue to defend all the territory of all of our members. We have no aggressive intentions and we commit ourselves to the peaceful resolution of all disputes. We will never in any circumstance be the first to use force.''
Mr. Kohl and Mr. Bush insisted today that the agreement to give a commitment on manpower levels of a unified German military did not constitute the singling out of German forces. The United States and West Germany have been resisting any repetition of the harsh approach taken by the victorious Allies after World War I, when limits were imposed on German strength and sovereignty. They said the German levels would be set in the context of negotiations involving all the NATO and Warsaw Pact European forces.
It was Mr. Bush's proposal to declare nuclear arms to be weapons of ''last resort'' that prompted the most intensive discussions, with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain and President Francois Mitterrand of France both insisting on a fuller explanation of why, even if the alliance reduced its reliance on nuclear weapons, it needed to make any potential aggressor worry that it might use them in self-defense.
 
Nuclear 'Last Resort'
''These will continue to fulfill an essential role in the overall strategy of the alliance to prevent war by insuring that there are no circumstances in which nuclear retaliation in response to military action might be discounted,'' the statement said, in words Mrs. Thatcher said she had ''spent a long time on.''
''However, in the transformed Europe, they will be able to adopt a new NATO strategy making nuclear forces truly weapons of last resort,'' the document said, referring to the United States, Britain and France. It promised a new NATO military strategy ''moving away from 'forward defense,' where appropriate, towards a reduced forward presence and modifying 'flexible response' to reflect a reduced reliance on nuclear weapons.''
Forward defense is the old alliance strategy of basing combat-ready American and German forces close to the East German border, ready to repel a conventional attack as soon as it starts. Flexible response is the NATO deterrence doctrine of keeping an attacker guessing about when and whether the response might be nuclear retaliation.
 
New Role for 35-Nation Forum
Finally, the NATO declaration proposed that the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, a 35-nation forum that includes neutral nations as well as members of the Eastern and Western alliances, ''should become more prominent in Europe's future .''
This has been a longstanding demand of Mr. Gorbachev's., and The NATO document listed a series of steps to bring together all of the national leaders at least once a year, establish a center for the prevention of conflict and create an Assembly of Europe that would include parliamentary representatives of all participating countries.
Manfred Mr. Worner, NATO's Secretary General, will fly to Moscow on July 14 to explain the new NATO stance to Mr. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders. Before departing for the United States this afternoon, President Mr. Bush said he expected to talk discuss the new position over with Mr. Gorbachev by telephone, ''perhaps within the next couple of weeks.''
''I think they have to sort it out now,'' the President Mr. Bush said. ''They have to decide what they want - how much of their gross national product ought to go into arms, whether the threat is much less than they have historically perceived. And once they take that decision, then we in the West will stand ready to work very cooperatively with them.''
 
Bush Balks at Economic Aid
But, he said, the alliance has made no decision to send money to the Soviet Union, and the United States does not want to. ''One problem is that a great percentage of their gross national product is going into the military,'' he said; another was ''spending $5 billion a year on Cuba, for example, to sustain a totaliatarian regime that is highly critical of the Soviet Union from time to time.''
''If the Germans decide they're going to do that, that's their business,'' Mr. Bush said. Asked what message he thought the alliance was sending to the Soviet leader, the President replied, ''I think it should be clear to Mr. Gorbachev, to his adversaries and to his friends inside the Soviet Union, that NATO is changing, and to the degree that they had seen it as a threat to their borders, they should look at it not as a threat to their people.''
After the President, Mr. Bush, the leader who seemed most pleased by what had been achieved here was clearly Mr. Kohl, who over for the last two days has held his own background briefings, in his own hotel, in his own language, while the other leaders were content with common facilities provided by their British hosts.
He was frank in acknowledging that the agreement on a new approach would not have been achieved without the American President. ''As far as I'm concerned, the chemistry is right with George Bush,'' he said. ''The present American administration has a very clear view of things.''
He Mr. Kohl was also clearly encouraged by the alliance's pledge to withdraw all American nuclear artillery shells from Europe if the Soviets made corresponding reductions. His Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, seemed persuaded that eventually all other short-range American and Soviet nuclear systems would follow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a news conference yesterday in London at the end of the NATO summit meeting. (Associated Press)(pg4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COLD WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



157 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
NATO ALLIES, AFTER 40 YEARS, PROCLAIM END OF COLD WAR; INVITE GORBACHEV TO SPEAK
Shevardnadze Says the Measures Herald 'a Safe Future' for Europe

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 6

 BODY:
The Soviet Government reacted with enthusiasm today to Western proposals for a new order in Europe, and said the moves would strengthen President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at a time when he is under increasing attack from hard-liners.
Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze said the measures approved by the London meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ''pave the way to a safe future for the entire European continent.''
''In London it was declared that the West extends its hand to the East,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said, in a five-page official statement that treated the NATO meeting as a landmark. ''For our part, we are ready to extend our hand toward them.'' [Excerpts from the statement are on page 5.] 
 
Response to the Hard-Liners
The NATO proposals, which include a joint nonaggression declaration, new restrictions on the deployment and use of nuclear weapons, and a meeting of Mr. Gorbachev with NATO leaders, came as Soviet military officers and civilian hard-liners have tried to make the loss of Eastern Europe an angry theme at the Communist Party's nationwide congress.
''Now we can tell them they are wrong,'' Gennadi I. Gerasimov, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said today, adding, ''This has come at a good time, because he is being criticized.''
Never before has a Soviet leader's foreign policy been the object of such controversy at a congress of his party.
Since the party congress opened on Monday, the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Eastern Europe, unconditional arms cuts and acquiescence in the unification of Germany have been attacked from the podium and in corridor interviews as part of a humiliating retreat.
The criticism has alarmed party liberals, some of whom have responded to the oratory of the generals by raising the specter of a military coup.
There is little evidence that the public is upset about the tumbling of Communist Governments in Eastern Europe by democratic movements. But among the generation that remembers World War II, the loss of Soviet influence and the resurgence of Germany have stirred old fears.
Mr. Shevardnadze has likened the attacks on Mr. Gorbachev's Eastern Europe policy to the period of McCarthyism in the United States in the decade after World War II, when accusations were raised that the Truman Administration had ''lost China'' by allowing the Communists to win the civil war against Chiang Kai-shek.
''Strange as it may seem, we hear similar accusations in this country,'' he said, in a response last week to letters from readers of the Communist Party daily Pravda. ''It seems as if some people here would like to ferret out those who 'lost Eastern Europe.' ''
The latest blast from the military came on Thursday, when Maj. Gen. Ivan Mikulin, a party delegate, accused Soviet diplomats of ''seeing the world through rose-colored glasses'' and of rushing recklessly to withdraw troops from Eastern Europe.
''What can I say to those who ask why we allowed changes in Eastern Europe and agreed to withdraw our troops?'' Mr. Shevardnadze said of such critics. ''They mean to ask why we did not use tanks to 'restore order.' ''
Valentin M. Falin, chief of the international affairs department of the Communist Party Central Committee, tonight dismissed the speeches of the military delegates in a news conference, saying, ''These people have no power.''
But it is striking that top military officials have not taken the podium to defend Mr. Gorbachev and his policies.
Mr. Falin, who tends to strike cautious notes, struck one tonight in talking about the NATO proposals, saying, ''I believe we are speaking about promises by politicians for the future, with no dates attached.''
Mr. Gorbachev, in off-the-cuff comments at the party congress today, said he had not yet received a formal invitation to meet with NATO leaders, ''but I am always ready to go.''
The Foreign Ministry statement praised each of the Western initiatives, and pointed out that many of them had originated as Soviet proposals.
 
Dissolving Western Threat
Mr. Shevardnadze's statement was clearly intended to trumpet the NATO meeting as a triumph for the diplomacy Mr. Gorbachev calls ''new political thinking,'' and to assure the Soviet public that the Western threat is continuing to dissolve.
The Foreign Minister said the Soviets ''attach extremely great importance'' to the NATO statement disavowing aggressive intentions and forswearing the first use of force, and approved of the proposal that NATO and the Warsaw Pact sign a joint declaration on that principle.
''This creates a fundamentally different political climate in Europe and, given its consistent implementation in life, may form a conceptual foundation for a new security system in the continent,'' he said.
Mr. Shevardnadze praised as ''potentially important'' NATO's offer to revise key aspects of the West's military defense, including the doctrine of ''flexible response,'' which reserves the right to make first use of nuclear weapons in some circumstances. The new policy would describe nuclear arms as weapons of last resort.
''The invitation to speak in Brussels at a session of the North Atlantic Council, the proposal to establish diplomatic liaison with NATO and develop contacts in the military field are, in our view, important changes in NATO's stance,'' Mr. Shevardnadze said.
On one issue that has divided the Western alliance, financial aid to repair the Soviet economy, Mr. Falin said that it would be in the interest of the West to integrate the Soviet Union into the Western economy.
''If we want to avoid a split, you need to include the Soviets in the world system,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eduard A. Shevardnadze (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; SUMMIT CONFERENCES MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WORLD WAR II (87%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); APPROVALS (72%); COUPS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); 

PERSON: SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; KELLER, BILL MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (92%); EDUARD A SHEVARDNADZE (90%); 



158 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
An Alliance for a New Age: Has NATO Donned a Velvet Glove?

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 6

 BODY:
''Spectacular!'' said one of President Bush's aides today as the NATO summit conference ended. ''Got everything we wanted!'' said a second senior adviser.
''Leadership,'' Mr. Bush said jovially to an acquaintance as he left the hall. ''Maybe even vision.''
The American delegation left London tonight delighted that with only modest changes the 15 other members of the Western alliance had followed the script for the transformation of NATO that the President and his aides wrote last month. 
They were convinced that working especially closely with the West Germans, they had sent President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union the right kind of reassuring signals - the kind he had sought in a letter to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain.
But only the Soviet leader can make this meeting the sort of success that all participants proclaimed it to be, because only he can decide whether the package of initiatives approved by the NATO leaders is sufficient to ease the sense of insecurity long felt by the Soviet Union. And only if his answer is ''yes'' is he likely to move soon to eliminate the principal obstacle to the building of the new Europe, his opposition to membership in NATO for a reunified Germany.
 
Good Sounds From Moscow
Moscow's reaction was encouraging, particularly the comment of Gennadi I. Gerasimov, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, who said that the decisions here would make it possible for Mr. Gorbachev to rebut the hard-liners, both military and civilian, who oppose concessions to the West. ''Now we can show them they are wrong,'' Mr. Gerasimov said.
The allies tried hard. They gave Mr. Gorbachev assurances that limits on German troop strength would come sooner rather than later in the conventional arms negotiations in Vienna, a gesture by the Germans meant to allay a major Soviet concern, underlined by the promise of Chancellor Helmut Kohl to discuss the matter with Mr. Gorbachev in Moscow later this month.
They moved toward removal of nuclear artillery shells from Europe, a further step in a process that may lead to the realization of another Gorbachev objective - the denuclearization of Germany - although Mrs. Thatcher strongly opposed that this morning.
And they adopted Mr. Bush's vital bit of diplomatic phraseology, decsribing nuclear weapons ''in the transformed Europe'' as ''truly weapons of the last resort.'' To get that past President Francois Mitterrand and especially Mrs. Thatcher, the United States had to agree to embed the new language in the old context, so Article 18 of the communique says ''there are no circumstances in which nuclear retaliation in response to military action might be discounted.''
 
Other Inducements
There were other sweeteners in the 22-point document, including the expected invitation to the Soviet leader to address NATO, but what was most striking was the tone, which marked a radical change from that of past NATO communiques.
If some of the bureaucratic fudging and straddling of old were still there, the truculence of spirit was gone. In its place there was talk of nonaggression pacts, of overcoming ''the legacy of decades of suspicion,'' of fewer weapons and smaller armies. As intended, it all made NATO sound like a very different animal from the war machine the Soviets have taken it for.
What Moscow may find somewhat less comforting is the lack of detail on a number of matters, such as the future political roles of NATO and the 35-member Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the retention in Europe of ''an appropriate mix of conventional and nuclear weapons'' whose only conceivable target for the foreseaable future is the Soviet Union.
Having lost an enemy, NATO is seeking a new role, and it has not yet found it. The search is complicated by the wish to do three things at once: reassure the Russians, avoid sounding so friendly that calls for slashes in military budgets become irresistable, and find a rational underpinning for continued American involvement, both political and military, in Europe.
Even the vocabulary of the alliance needs updating, as leading European commentators have been noting recently. Peter Jenkins of The Independent in London wrote the other day, for example, that what was needed now was not so much ''deterrence'' of a Soviet attack, which is highly improbable, but ''insurance'' against some unforeseeable act of madness. So, Whither NATO? Obviously only a beginning could be made on such things in a bare three sessions at Lancaster House over the last day and a half.
Left all but untouched here was the very basic question of whether NATO is to be a transitional organization, ultimately to be supplanted by a pan-European security organization based on security conference, or whether it will survive, either alongside the security conference or as a unit within it. A corollary question, also pushed aside here, is how the Soviet Union will eventually be tied into whatever structure emerges, so it will be no more of a loose cannon on the deck of Europe than Germany.
''What we must aim for,'' a senior German official said in London this week, ''is a cooperative security structure for western Europe that includes the Soviet Union. We don't want in any way to push them out of things.''
Left for another NATO conference, months or years in the future, was the question of a new generation of tactical air-to-surface missiles, favored by Mrs. Thatcher and by some American planners as a means of carrying nuclear warheads from Western Europe across the newly democratizing countries of central Europe to the Soviet Union. For the moment, talk of ''modernizing'' the nuclear arsenal is badly out of tune with the message of non-aggression.
 
History in the Air
Left to be decided, in part at the summit meeting of the seven most industrialized nations in Houston next week, is the exact shape of a large program of economic support for Mr. Gorbachev, to be provided mainly by West Germany. It seems an inevitable part of the confidence-building program.
Yet history was in the air here, a sense of a new Europe, a place whose ''future belongs to freedom, partnership and openness,'' in the hopeful words of Manfred Worner, the NATO Secretary General.
A little more than 75 years ago in this old capital on the Thames, on Aug. 3, 1914, Sir Edward Grey, the British Foreign Secretary, surveyed the wreckage of his attempts to head off war and said, ''The lamps are going out all over Europe; we shall not see them lit again in our lifetime.''
This week in London, his heirs from the chanceries of the Continent assembled to try to make sure the lights are coming back on for good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



159 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2127 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Text of the Declaration After the NATO Talks

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LONDON, July 6

 BODY:
Following is the text of the final declaration issued by the NATO summit conference here today:
[1] Europe has entered a new, promising era. Central and Eastern Europe is liberating itself. The Soviet Union has embarked on the long journey toward a free society. The walls that once confined people and ideas are collapsing. Europeans are determining their own destiny. They are choosing freedom. They are choosing economic liberty. They are choosing peace. They are choosing a Europe whole and free. As a consequence, this Alliance must and will adapt.
[2] The North Atlantic Alliance has been the most successful defensive alliance in history. As our Alliance enters its fifth decade and looks ahead to a new century, it must continue to provide for the common defense. This Alliance has done much to bring about the new Europe. No one, however, can be certain of the future. We need to keep standing together, to extend the long peace we have enjoyed these past four decades. 
Yet our Alliance must be even more an agent of change. It can help build the structures of a more united continent, supporting security and stability with the strength of our shared faith in democracy, the rights of the individual, and the peaceful resolution of disputes. We reaffirm that security and stability do not lie solely in the military dimension, and we intend to enhance the political component of our Alliance as provided for by Article 2 of our Treaty.
[3] The unification of Germany means that the division of Europe is also being overcome. A united Germany in the Atlantic Alliance of free democracies and part of the growing political and economic integration of the European Community will be an indispensable factor of stability, which is needed in the heart of Europe. The move within the European Community toward political union, including the development of a European identity in the domain of security, will also contribute to Atlantic solidarity and to the establishment of a just and lasting order of peace throughout the whole of Europe.
[4] We recognize that, in the new Europe, the security of every state is inseparably linked to the security of its neighbors. NATO must become an institution where Europeans, Canadians and Americans work together not only for the common defense, but to build new partnerships with all the nations of Europe. The Atlantic Community must reach out to the countries of the East which were our adversaries in the cold war, and extend to them the hand of friendship.
[5] We will remain a defensive alliance and will continue to defend all the territory of all of our members. We have no aggressive intentions and we commit ourselves to the peaceful resolution of all disputes. We will never in any circumstance be the first to use force.
[6] The member states of the North Atlantic Alliance propose to the member states of the Warsaw Treaty Organization a joint declaration in which we solemnly state that we are no longer adversaries and reaffirm our intention to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or from acting in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and with the C.S.C.E. Final Act. We invite all other C.S.C.E. member states to join us in this commitment to non-aggression.
[7] In that spirit, and to reflect the changing political role of the Alliance, we today invite President Gorbachev on behalf of the Soviet Union, and representatives of the other Central and Eastern European countries, to come to Brussels and address the North Atlantic Council.
We today also invite the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Hungarian Republic, the Republic of Poland, the People's Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to come to NATO, not just to visit, but to establish regular diplomatic liaison with NATO. This will make it possible for us to share with them our thinking and deliberations in this historic period of change.
[8] Our alliance will do its share to overcome the legacy of decades of suspicion. We are ready to intensify military contacts, including those of NATO Military Commanders, with Moscow and other Central and Eastern European capitals.
[9] We welcome the invitation to NATO Secretary General Manfred Worner to visit Moscow and meet with Soviet leaders.
[10] Military leaders from throughout Europe gathered earlier this year in Vienna to talk about their forces and doctrine. NATO proposes another such meeting this autumn to promote common understanding. Wrole of the intend to establish an entirely different quality of openness in Europe, including an agreement on ''open skies.''
[11] The significant presence of North American conventional and U.S. nuclear forces in Europe demonstrates the underlying political compact that binds North America's fate to Europe's democracies. But, as Europe changes, we must profoundly alter the way we think about defense.
[12] To reduce our military requirements, sound arms control agreements are essential. That is why we put the highest priority on completing this year the first treaty to reduce and limit conventional armed forces in Europe along with the completion of a meaningful C.S.B.M. [confidence and security building measures] package. These talks should remain in continuous session until the work is done. Yet we hope to go further. We propose that, once a C.F.E. Treaty is signed, follow-on talks should begin with the same membership and mandate, with the goal of building on the current agreement with additional measures, including measures to limit manpower in Europe. With this goal in mind, a commitment will be given at the time of signature of the C.F.E. Treaty concerning the manpower levels of a unified Germany.
[13] Our objective will be to conclude the negotiations on the follow-on to C.F.E. and C.S.B.M.'s as soon as possible and looking to the follow-up meeting of the C.S.C.E. to be held in Helsinki in 1992. We will seek through new conventional arms control negotiations, within the C.S.C.E. framework, further far-reaching measures in the 1990's to limit the offensive capability of conventional armed forces in Europe, so as to prevent any nation from maintaining disproportionate military power on the continent. NATO's High Level Task Force will formulate a detailed position for these follow-on conventional arms control talks. We will make provisions as needed for different regions to redress disparities and to ensure that no one's security is harmed at any stage. Furthermore, we will explore broader arms control and confidence-building opportunities. This is an ambitious agenda, but it matches our goal: enduring peace in Europe.
[14] As Soviet troops leave Eastern Europe and a treaty limiting conventional armed forces is implemented, the Alliance's integrated force structure and its strategy will change fundamentally to include the following elements:
* NATO will field smaller and restructured active forces. These forces will be highly mobile and versatile so that Allied leaders will have maximum flexibility in deciding how to respond to a crisis. It will rely increasingly on multinational corps made up of national units.
* NATO will scale back the readiness of its active unitsreducing training requirements and the number of exercises.
* NATO will rely more heavily on the ability to build up larger forces if and when they might be needed.
[15] To keep the peace, the Alliance must maintain for the foreseeable future an appropriate mix of nuclear and conventional forces, based in Europe, and kept up to date where necessary. But, as a defensive Alliance, NATO has always stressed that none of its weapons will ever be used except in self-defense and that we seek the lowest and most stable level of nuclear forces needed to secure the prevention of war.
[16] The political and military changes in Europe, and the prospects of further changes, now allow the Allies concerned to go further. They will thus modify the size and adapt the tasks of their nuclear deterrent forces. They have concluded that, as a result of the new political and military conditions in Europe, there will be a significantly reduced role for sub-strategic nuclear systems of the shortest range. They have decided specifically that, once negotiations begin on short-range nuclear forces, the Alliance will propose, in return for reciprocal action by the Soviet Union, the elimination of all its nuclear artillery shells from Europe.
[17] New negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union on the reduction of short-range nuclear forces should begin shortly after a C.F.E. agreement is signed. The Allies concerned will develop an arms control framework for these negotiations which takes into account our requirements for far fewer nuclear weapons, and the diminished need for sub-strategic nuclear systems of the shortest range.
[18] Finally, with the total withdrawal of Soviet stationed forces and the implementation of a C.F.E. agreement, the Allies concerned can reduce their reliance on nuclear weapons. These will continue to fulfill an essential role in the overall strategy of the Alliance to prevent war by ensuring that there are no circumstances in which nuclear retaliation in response to military action might be discounted. However, in the transformed Europe, they will be able to adopt a new NATO strategy making nuclear forces truly weapons of last resort.
[19] We approve the mandate given in Turnberry to the North Atlantic Council in Permanent Session to oversee the ongoing work on the adaptation of the Alliance to the new circumstances. It should report its conclusions as soon as possible.
[20] In the context of these revised plans for defense and arms control, and with the advice of NATO Military Authorities and all member states concerned, NATO will prepare a new Allied military strategy moving way from ''forward defense,'' where appropriate, towards a reduced forward presence and modifying ''flexible response'' to reflect a reduced reliance on nuclear weapons. In that connection, NATO will elaborate new force plans consistent with the revolutionary changes in Europe. NATO will also provide a forum for Allied consultation on the upcoming negotiations on short-range nuclear forces.
[21] The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe should become more prominent in Europe's future, bringing together the countries of Europe and North America. We support a C.S.C.E. Summit later this year in Paris which would include the signature of a C.F.E. agreement and would set new standards for the establishment, and preservation, of free societies. It should endorse, inter alia:
* C.S.C.E. principles on the right to free and fair elections;
* C.S.C.E. commitments to respect and uphold the rule of law;
* C.S.C.E. guidelines for enhancing economic cooperation, based on the development of free and competitive market economies; and
* C.S.C.E. cooperation on environmental protection.
[22] We further propose that the C.S.C.E. Summit in Paris decide how the C.S.C.E. can be institutionalized to provide a forum for wider political dialogue in a more united Europe. We recommend that C.S.C.E. governments establish:
* A program for regular consultations among member governments at the Heads of State and Government or Ministerial level, at least once each year, with other periodic meetings of officials to prepare for and follow up on these consultations;
* A schedule of C.S.C.E. review conferences once every two years to assess progress toward a Europe whole and free;
* A small C.S.C.E. secretariat to coordinate these meetings and conferences;
* A C.S.C.E. mechanism to monitor elections in all the C.S.C.E. countries, on the basis of the Copenhagen Document;
* A C.S.C.E. Center for the Prevention of Conflict that might serve as a forum for exchanges of military information, discussion of unusual military activities, and the conciliation of disputes involving C.S.C.E. member states; and
* A C.S.C.E. parliamentary body, the Assembly of Europe, to be based on the existing parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, in Strasbourg, and include representatives of all C.S.C.E. member states.
The sites of these new institutions should reflect the fact that the newly democratic countries of Central and Eastern Europe form part of the political structures of the new Europe.
[23] Today, our Alliance begins a major transformation. Working with all the countries of Europe, we are determined to create enduring peace on this continent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher taking questions at the session in London yesterday; Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany making a point at the NATO meeting's final news conference. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); COLD WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); 



160 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Slides Again; Hope for Easier Credit Dims

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 6

 BODY:
In a report that further reduced hope for early Government action to lower interest rates, the Labor Department said today that the unemployment rate edged down another notch in June, to 5.2 percent, and that the number of new jobs rose to a higher level than most analysts expected.
Both figures showed growth to remain well short of robust. But when combined with the most striking element of the report, a very large upward revision in jobs for May as determined by the department's survey of business payrolls, the general reaction was that the Federal Reserve Board would find nothing to compel a prompt cut in interest rates to spur economic growth, as the Bush Administration has increasingly been urging.
For May, the increase in jobs, which includes temporary census workers, is now put at 356,000 instead of the 164,000 reported five weeks ago. Combined with an additional job increase in June and the second straight monthly decline of one-tenth of a point in the civilian employment rate, as measured by a separate survey of households, the data suggested an economy that is in no imminent danger of sliding into recession. 
Most analysts predict that the gross national product will rise by less than 2 percent in the second half of the year.
The number of people employed is growing very slowly not only because the economy is sluggish, but also for demographic reasons. This tight labor market makes it relatively easy to keep the jobless rate from rising, but is an obstacle to an easing of interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
''It's pretty tough to ease into a 5.2 percent unemployment rate,'' said Alan C. Lerner, an economist for the Bankers Trust Company.
Another factor is a new-found steadiness in the industrial sector, where output continues to advance despite a continued loss of factory jobs.
Economists also noted that the number of hours worked rose in June for the second straight month. That was partly the result of a longer factory work week, an increase largely sustained in June after a jump in May.
Mindful of the sharp increase in fringe-benefit costs and upcoming labor negotiations in the auto industry and possibly concerned that military and other orders may be withdrawn, many employers are inclined to work existing employees overtime rather than hire new ones.
 
Signs of Weakness
But today's report also had evidence of weakness in the economy. The quarterly tabulation of unemployed workers who have given up looking for a job because they think they will not find one jumped nearly 20 percent in the April-June period, to 893,000, the highest level since the end of 1988.
''Certainly, this number bears watching,'' said the Commission of Labor Statistics, Dr. Janet L. Norwood.
There was also a sharp decline in the index that shows the percentage of industries adding workers as against shedding them. At 46.8 percent, down from 54.3 percent in May, the figure for industries adding workers was the lowest since late 1982.
''It's a very mixed bag of numbers'' said Joseph A. Wahed, chief economist for the Wells Fargo Bank. ''The economy's pockmarked and moving in fits and starts.''
But what was very clear was that growth in employment has slowed dramatically in the past 18 months. In the first half of this year, jobs in the private sector expanded by an average of only 110,000 a month, down from 135,000 a month in the second half of last year and from 220,000 a month in the first half.
The levels of new jobs in May and June were in line with the 1990 trend, but it was obscured by the hiring and laying off of temporary census workers. The increase in jobs last month was 40,000 after the subtraction of 57,000 census takers. In May, 200,000 census workers were hired, the department reported today, up from the initial estimate of 145,000.
Dr. Norwood said she was ''very unhappy'' that the May revision was so large but that it did not fundamentally alter the view that economic growth, though a bit stronger than had been thought, is ''still very slow.''
Manufacturing lost another 31,000 jobs last month, with small declines spread among several durable-goods industries and in food-processing and apparel. Some 335,000 factory jobs have been lost since March 1989. Jobs in construction fell for in June for the fourth straight month, to the same level as a year ago. In services, the health industry was the only big gainer, adding 40,000 workers.
There was no significant change in unemployment among major population groups. The rate for teen-agers eased to 14.1 percent from 15.5, as their entry into the summer work force was less than in the recent past.
The jobless rates for New York and New Jersey were unchanged at 5.1 percent and 4.8 percent, respectively.
As measured by the survey of households, 118,389,000 Americans had jobs last month out of a total labor force of 124,836,000. It was an increase of 39,000 from May. Combined with a decline of 168,000 in the labor force, that meant the number of unemployed Americans fell to 6,447,000.
The overall unemployment rate, which includes 1,630,000 military personnel stationed in the United States, declined two-tenths of 1 percent in June to 5.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table listing the labor picture and chart showing the jobless rate. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); CENSUS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR JANET L NORWOOD (61%); 



161 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: In Texas City, Newcomer Brings Abortion Turmoil

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CORPUS CHRISTI, Tex., July 3

 BODY:
Until recently, Corpus Christi was like most other cities when it came to the subject of abortion. There were strong feelings on both sides, but other questions, like whether to increase property taxes, seemed more urgent.
Then an anti-abortion crusader named Rex Moses came to town, saying he was called here by God because Corpus Christi means ''the Body of Christ'' in Latin.
It has been nine months since Mr. Moses arrived. The Roman Catholic Bishop has excommunicated at least two employees of local abortion clinics. The sheriff has hung posters of aborted fetuses in county offices. The City Council has been forced by petition to consider an amendment to the city charter saying that life begins at conception. A local doctor testified in court that his children fear protesters will burn their house down because their father performs abortions. And the local newspaper's opinion pages have been filled with heated reaction. 
 
'A Surfer on a Surfboard'
Groups on both sides say the catalyst for all this was the magnetic and intense Mr. Moses, although he says it is not so. ''It was going to happen anyway,'' he said. ''I'm like a surfer on a surfboard. I watched the wave as it was about to break and paddled fast enough to get on top of it.''
But the speed with which this issue exploded in Corpus Christi shows how close to the surface emotions run on the abortion issue and how little it takes to ignite them. ''This could happen in any city starting tomorrow,'' Mr. Moses said. ''Today it's happening here.''
Corpus Christi is a city of 275,000 people on the Gulf coast with an economy that revolves around the oil industry, shrimping, agriculture and ranching. It has nearly a dozen long-established anti-abortion groups, about as many groups that advocate abortion rights, and two clinics that perform the procedure.
The directors of the clinics have always been open about their jobs. Rachel Vargas, one of those excommunicated by the Bishop, has been the director of the Reproductive Services Inc. for eight years. Elva Bustamante, who has received two warning letters from the Bishop about possible excommunication, has been the director of the New Woman's Clinic for 12 years.
 
Moses Changed the Protests
The two women said in recent interviews that there had been protests at the clinics throughout their tenures, but the protesters kept away from the front door and did not approach anyone entering the building.
All that, they said, changed last fall, when Mr. Moses moved to Corpus Christi from Austin, where he had been organizing what he called ''rescues'' at abortion clinics for more than a year.
Mr. Moses, who is 35 years old, had become well known in Austin. Until 1988, he ran a consulting company there, specializing in managing retirement plans, and his income for that year was $218,932, The Austin American-Statesman newspaper said was shown by his tax returns, which Mr. Moses confirmed. He said he had always opposed abortion, and then he read about Operation Rescue in Atlanta, where protesters lay in front of abortion clinics to keep women from entering.
''I decided I couldn't live with the legacy I was leaving,'' he said of his four children. ''I couldn't keep living the most convenient life you can imagine, going to work and knowing that babies were being killed two miles away.''
Late that year, Mr. Moses said, he sold most of his interest in his company to his partner for $1. He gave away everything he owned, ''except for my house, a three-year-old truck and an eight-year-old car,'' then used his savings to charter several buses to drive Austin residents to Atlanta to participate in the protests.
Soon Mr. Moses was coordinating similar protests in Austin. At first, he said, he had the full support of local church leaders, but he said they backed away from him when the arrests began. From October 1988 to November 1989, 600 criminal trespass complaints were lodged against abortion protesters in Austin.
 
He Served Two Jail Terms
Mr. Moses has served two 30-day sentences on a contempt charge and is appealing an 18-month sentence for criminal trespass. He has also lost two civil lawsuits. The first, filed by the Ladies Center, an Austin clinic, resulted in a $587,000 jury award. The second, filed by a police officer who was injured while trying to lift a 300-pound protester into a police wagon, resulted in a $750,000 verdict from a judge. Neither fine has been paid. ''I would die before I would pay them a cent,'' he said.
Mr. Moses's tactics in some ways echo those of Randall Terry, the founder of Operation Rescue, whom Mr. Moses met with extensively in Atlanta two years ago and later in Texas. Mr. Terry said in a telephone interview that there might be more than 100 Americans who have given up their jobs and most of their possessions to fight abortion.
Mr. Moses said he no longer had any assets to seize, except his unoccupied Austin house, which is protected from creditors by Texas law. He said he had no income and was living off the donations that supporters make to his cause. He said he has not paid rent on the duplex he rents in Corpus Christi since February, explaining that the owner of the house was ''very sympathetic and patient.'' His family often eats food dropped off by strangers, he said.
He said he considered the lawsuits and jail time a necessary sacrifice, but was not willing to stay in Austin without the full support of the local churches. He began looking for a new city where he could lead his protests. From Corpus Christi originally, he said he came here for a visit last fall and was introduced briefly to Bishop Rene H. Gracida.
The Bishop has a reputation for outspokenness, and in a city where 55 percent of the residents are Catholic, his views are heard widely. In January 1989, he was among the first of many religious leaders in the country to call for a boycott of all products of the Pepsi-Cola Company because the company's advertising used a video by Madonna that the Bishop considered sacrilegious. Pepsi eventually withdrew the ads and canceled its contract with the singer.
 
'Where God Wanted Me'
Mr. Moses said his first meeting with Bishop Gracida was short but warm. That reception, among other things, including the city's very name, he said, convinced him that Corpus Christi ''is where God wanted me to be.'' He named his group the Body of Christ Rescue.
From the first protest coordinated by that group, it was obvious that Mr. Moses would face fewer impediments in Corpus Christi than he had in Austin. More than 250 people protested. There were 12 arrests but no one was charged with a crime. In the nine anti-abortion protests held over the last nine months, there have been a total of 16 arrests and one jail sentence of 30 days.
Shortly after the first protest, Mr. Moses met James T. Hickey, the sheriff of Nueces County, which includes Corpus Christi. An avuncular man, Sheriff Hickey says he has always been against abortion, but had not acted publicly on his beliefs.
The two men became friends, and in January Mr. Moses showed Sheriff Hickey a photograph of a 6-month-old fetus that had been aborted.
In an interview in his office, Sheriff Hickey recalled: ''He said, 'Sheriff, what are we going to do with this?' I said I would like to make it into a poster and hang it around the department so people can see what abortion really is.''
He did, bringing immediate questions from local news organizations.
In an interview with The Corpus Christi Caller-Times about whether displaying such posters were appropriate for an elected law-enforcement official, the sheriff was asked what he would do if called on to arrest abortion protesters who trespassed.
''I would feel like I was a party to the killing of babies,'' he said. ''I would be aiding and abetting murder. That is something I would not do. And nobody in my departnment is going to take any action without my order.''
The question is moot, since the city police, and not the county sheriff, have primary jurisdiction over the areas where the abortion clinics are situated. But the sheriff's answer brought strong reaction from the community. A Caller-Times poll found that although opinion was evenly divided on whether abortion should be legal, a majority disapproved of Sheriff Hickey's actions and statements. Nearly half opposed his position that he would refuse to arrest protesters and 66 percent said they do not believe a public official's personal beliefs should affect his public duty.
 
Sheriff Is Now Spokesman
The controversy made Sheriff Hickey an instant spokesman for the anti-abortion movement here. He is regularly seen, out of uniform, praying at anti-abortion rallies. Members of one anti-abortion group purchased space on 10 billboards around the city that quote the sheriff's statement, ''My first duty is to God.''
Bishop Gracida praised the sheriff publicly for his ''courageous and unequivocal statements regarding the nature of abortion.''
The Bishop is currently on his yearly vacation; no one reached at the diocese would speak for him.
While the personal pain of Sheriff Hickey and Mr. Moses were creating public controversy, that controversy was in turn causing personal pain for others. From January to June, the Bishop sent a series of letters to Mrs. Bustamante, Ms. Vargas and Dr. Eduardo Aquino, who performs abortions two days a week at the clinic where Mrs. Bustamante works.
The first letters explained that by working in an abortion clinic, the recipients were excommunicating themselves. The Bishop urged them to stop and gave them 30 days to reply. A second letter, received about three months after the first, was shorter and more forceful. Ms. Vargas and Dr. Aquino have since received letters of formal excommunication.
Dr. Aquino kept the letters to himself for a long time. He was battling Mr. Moses in court, trying to end the daily picketing that Mr. Moses was leading in front of the Aquino home. Dr. Aquino , is on vacation in Argentina, his native land, and could not be reached, his office said.
 
Doctor Wins a Settlement
In April Dr. Aquino was granted a temporary restraining order against the picketers after testifying that his children could not sleep for fear that the protesters would burn down the house. Later, Dr. Aquino won an $800,000 settlment for harassment against the anti-abortion group South Texas for Life. That award has been appealed but the pickets are no longer at Dr. Aquino's house.
Late last month, Ms. Vargas made her letters public, and Dr. Aquino and Mrs. Bustamante soon followed. The two women say they did not come easily to their views in support of abortion rights, but believe that they are not inconsistent with being Catholic.
''I know that if these abortions were not performed that eventually there would be a child,'' said Mrs. Bustamante, who has three children, one grandchild and five foster children. ''I wish with all my heart that every child that was conceived was a wanted child and wouldn't become battered or abused or ignored. But I don't think I have the right to tell anyone they have to become a parent.''
The three recipients of the letters say the Bishop's actions are political and point to the petition drive asking the Corpus Christi City Council to vote on a ''human life amendment'' that says life begins at conception. Twice the needed number of signatures have been gathered.
''The timing isn't coincidental,'' Ms. Vargas said.
Mr. Moses disagrees. ''This isn't politics,'' he said. ''This is divine intervention.''


GRAPHIC: Since his arrival in the city nine months ago, anti-abortion demonstrators have become highly visible; Sheriff James T. Hickey of Nueces County, Tex., leading anti-abortion protesters on their way to a clinic in the city. He has said he will not arrest anti-abortion protesters. ''My first duty is to God,'' he said. (Photographs by Robert Bunch/The Corpus Christi Caller-Times)
Photo: Rex Moses, right, blocking the entrance to Reproductive Services, Inc., in Corpus Christi, Tex., in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); 

CITY: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (98%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CORPUS CHRISTI (TEX)

SUBJECT: ABORTION ABORTION (92%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); SHERIFFS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); PETITIONS (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA; MOSES, REX REX MOSES (94%); 



162 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Bill Would Require Warnings on Recordings

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
The first bill in the United States requiring warning labels on record albums with potentially offensive lyrics was passed last night by the Louisiana State Senate by a vote of 29 to 9. The bill, an amended version of legislation approved by the state's House of Representatives on May 10, requires warning labels on recordings with themes of rape, murder, suicide, illegal drug use, child abuse or satanic worship.
 
Another Look by House
To become law, the bill must be signed by Louisiana's Governor, Buddy Roemer, who has said he needs to examine it more closely and consider its financial impact on the state. It must first be sent back to the House for approval of Senate amendments. 
The bill originally made retailers responsible for labeling records, tapes and compact disks, and subjected them to felony charges for selling such recordings to minors. It was amended to make the recording industry responsible for labeling; selling such recordings to minors was reduced to the status of a misdemeanor.
The bill was passed despite warnings of legal problems and potential economic losses for the state.
''We pass bills all the time to have clean air, clean water,'' said State Senator Oswald Decuir, who presented the bill to the Senate. ''Why can't we do something to clean up the environment for children?''
Similar bills had been proposed in a dozen other states, but most that had not been defeated were withdrawn when the member companies of the Recording Industry Association of America, the trade group that includes the major companies, agreed to voluntarily place a warning sticker reading ''Parental Advisory - Explicit Lyrics'' on certain albums.
Record-labeling bills are pending in New York and New Jersey and in the Pennsylvania Senate, where the House of Representatives passed a labeling bill in December 1989.
The Louisiana bill has provoked strong concern inside and outside the recording business. A Louisiana state attorney, Charles T. Yeager, submitted a memorandum to a state representative advising that the bill was an unconstitutional attempt to regulate protected speech. Morality in Media, an anti-pornography group, has also worked against the bill, saying that it is overly broad. The Parents' Music Resource Center, which raised the outcry over controversial messages in pop lyrics, said it has never supported such legislation.
The merchandisers' association and the National Association of Independent Recording Distributors and Manufacturers had each planned to hold conventions in New Orleans, but said they would meet elsewhere if the bill becomes law.
The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which presents the Grammy Awards each year, said it would eliminate New Orleans as the possible site of a Grammy museum if the bill becomes law.
Louisiana's recording industry, which had been growing slowly during the 1980's, is likely to be hurt by the legislation. ''The music business had really started to gain momentum, with all kinds of little private ventures going on,'' said Jan Ramsey, publisher of the Louisiana music magazine Offbeat. ''Then we have this stupidity, which is going to throw cold water on the whole business.''
Several organizations said they planned court challenges on First Amendment grounds if the bill is passed; they include People for the American Way, the liberal lobbying group; the Recording Industry Association of America, and the Pittsburgh-based National Association of Recordings Merchandisers, the record retailers' group.
 
'A Chilling Effect'
''The Supreme Court has clearly said you don't have to prohibit sales to be in violation of the First Amendment,'' said Deanna Duby, senior attorney for People for the American Way. ''Record dealers, rather than risk being in violation of the law, will refuse to carry certain records, certain types of music and certain artists. That would be a chilling effect.''
Last month, two members of the Miami-based rap group 2 Live Crew were arrested in Florida after they played songs from their sexually explicit album ''As Nasty as They Wanna Be'' at an all-adult show. A Florida record-store owner who sold the album was also arrested.
The arrests followed a Federal judge's ruling that the album violates Florida's obscenity law. The ruling is being appealed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: MUSIC; LABELING AND LABELS; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; SEX CRIMES; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILD ABUSE; SATANISM; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRODUCT LABELING (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); OBSCENITY (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); FELONIES (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); MISDEMEANORS (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); RETAILERS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); SUICIDE (56%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON CHARLES ELSON 'BUDDY' ROEMER III (57%); 



163 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Victory With Vision in Europe

 BODY:
After World War I, the victors carved Europe into unstable pieces and imposed a peace that scarred winners and losers alike. Germany was truncated geographically, and doomed to poverty by reparations.
After World War II the victorious allies divided Germany, the Continent and their minds, triggering 45 years of cold war. The Soviet Union grabbed the eastern half of Europe; Britain, France and the United States created the NATO military alliance and a framework of economic cooperation. 
Yesterday in London the heads of NATO, led by President Bush, began bringing the curtain down on the cold war. They fashioned a peace with vision, one that will open the door to a democratic and reunited Germany, one that reaches out to a dangerously wobbling Soviet Union, one that promises a whole Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals and the Baltic to the Adriatic.
The key to this vision is not to make the loser of the cold war, the Soviet Union, into a sore loser. The idea is to reassure Moscow, and thereby create a partner that can complete arms reduction treaties, agree to making Germany whole and participate in a more secure Europe.
Moscow's military leaders are plainly unhappy about the collapse of their position in Eastern and Central Europe. And there's evidence that they've caused Mikhail Gorbachev to drag his feet in arms talks. The London communique might help break deadlocks on negotiations to reduce forces in Europe and cut strategic arms. NATO's decision to adopt Mr. Bush's call to use nuclear weapons only as ''a last resort'' is likely to speed this process. To be sure, NATO will keep the option of employing these devices first and early. But the ''last resort'' proposal signals a declining reliance on nuclear threats, and sends a reassuring message to Europe as well as to the Soviet Union.
Moscow has moved ever closer to accepting the idea of a united Germany in NATO. Yet it's understandably concerned that the West, with its newfound strength, will isolate it.
The communique does much to alleviate that concern. NATO leaders invite Mr. Gorbachev to address the alliance, and Warsaw Pact countries to apply for observer status. Soviet leaders responded to the offers enthusiastically. These moves underline NATO's resolve to transform itself from a military into a political alliance that will not ignite historical Russian paranoia.
NATO also has sensibly taken care to keep itself intact. Changes in the Soviet Union look irreversible, but hard-liners could make a comeback. Moscow pledges to reduce forces, but that process is only beginning.
Above all, alliance leaders proved in London that they are prepared to go beyond NATO. Their proposals to expand the purview of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe point toward a Europe-wide security system. This larger vision inspires the realistic hope that this time, Europe could become whole and at peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR I (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



164 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Peru: No Vietnam in the Andes

 BODY:
President Bush's offer of military aid for Peru's antidrug campaign raises fears that he'll involve the U.S. in another Vietnam. Those fears are unwarranted. A tough military strategy in the Andes, coupled with substantial development aid, is essential to antidrug policy. 
The Administration sent increased aid to Colombia last summer, after the Colombians began an aggressive campaign against drug traffickers. In January Mr. Bush met with the Presidents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia to discuss a wider program. Funds are flowing to Colombia and Bolivia, but Peru remains on hold as its President-elect, Alberto Fujimori, ponders the issue.
Framing U.S. policy is especially difficult in Peru because of a vicious guerrilla group, Sendero Luminoso, or Shining Path. It has flourished inland, gaining ground while the national Government is beset by severe economic problems.
These guerrillas are violent terrorists. But that by itself does not justify sending U.S. military advisers into the middle of an apparent civil war. What justifies the military aid is the Shining Path's heavy involvement in sustaining coca production. It thereby presents a clear threat to the United States.
So why the anxiety about fighting these guerrillas - especially since the aid would consist only of equipment and training? No one proposes to involve U.S. troops in combat. Some worry that if U.S. advisers are wounded or killed, the Administration would face irresistible pressures to escalate. Others fear the aid would give too much political power to the Peruvian military. Mr. Fujimori's effectiveness remains unknown. Why take even a small chance?
Because common sense suggests it's a reasonable risk. Drug enforcement agents have already suffered casualties in the Andes and elsewhere without provoking military intervention. And the $35 million President Bush wants this year would finance neither a dramatic U.S. escalation nor a major expansion of the Peruvian Army.
Mr. Bush's plan is also challenged by drug policy experts who argue that it's hopeless to attack a single country or regional source of supply, since other suppliers soon might enter the picture. The experience of recent months suggests otherwise. The Colombian campaign apparently disrupted trafficking enough to puncture the market for raw coca leaves in Bolivia. Thousands of growers began seeking help to plant other crops.
And drug enforcement officials now begin to detect the effects of reduced supply on the U.S. market. Prices of cocaine products are rising and purity is falling. Apparently it is not so easy for traffickers to adjust.
The progress in Colombia and Bolivia exceeds anything even the most hawkish drug warriors might have predicted only months ago. It vindicates the limited help Mr. Bush offers Peru, and the limited risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (95%); BOLIVIA (94%); 

STATE: ANDES (94%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; VIETNAM WAR INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); POLITICS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); TERRORISM (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (95%); 



165 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Sharper Data for Rent Guidelines

 BODY:
New York City's rent control laws force landlords, tenants and bureaucrats into periodic confrontations: how much rent is fair for what kind of housing? A recent tax law creates a new, solid basis for such discussions - one that turns out to support the landlords' position.
Apartment house owners believe that operating costs ought to consume no more than 50 percent of the rent dollar, leaving the balance to cover the costs of mortgage debt and a return on the owner's equity investment.
In setting fair rent levels, city officials have in the past relied on theoretical ''baskets'' and other models prepared by economists. Thus in May, the city Rent Guidelines Board referred to an estimate of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal that placed operating and maintenance costs of stabilized apartments between 52 and 56 percent of legal maximum rent. On that basis, the board proposed an increase of 3 percent in rents on one-year leases. 
But now, with the board preparing to make a final ruling on next year's rents, there is a better data base. A new law requires owners of income-producing properties to submit statements of revenues and operating costs to tax officials who are preparing new assessed valuations.
These tax returns, which only recently became available, show that operations and maintenance expenditures - including real property taxes, fuel, electricity, labor and repairs - consume an average of 65 cents of every rent dollar actually collected in stabilized buildings.
To be sure, landlords seeking to minimize tax liability have an incentive to maximize costs on tax returns. But the law requires accuracy, and city officials accept the returns as consistent with reasonable estimates of operating costs.
Does the tax-return figure of 65 percent justify a rent increase of more than 3 percent? That is up to the Guidelines Board to decide. But better information can't hurt. It will help the board reach a fair conclusion, and help the public understand how fair the board has tried to be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT STABILIZATION CODE (NYS); RENTING AND LEASING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); LANDLORDS RENT CONTROL (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 



166 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Behind Japan's Birth-Rate Furor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It was most unfortunate that ''Tokyo Official Ties Birth Decline to Education'' (news article, June 14) conveyed a misinterpretation of my statements on the effect of higher education in Japan on the labor market. The article was based on a Japanese newspaper report that misinterpreted a statement I made at a ministerial meeting June 12 on the effect of the aging of Japanese society.
Reportedly, my statement at the meeting was that ''The reason for an alarming decline in Japan's birth rate is the Government's policy of encouraging women to obtain higher education.'' 
What I did say was that the ministries of education and labor should initiate a comprehensive study on the relationship between higher education and its impact on employment.
Naturally, the report stirred fury among Japanese women. Even before I read the newspaper, I received phone calls of protest at home early in the morning. I am deeply concerned that inaccurate reporting in the foreign press could not only hurt me and the Japanese people, but mislead foreign readers as well.
To explain: The Japanese birth rate, that is, the average number of children a woman is expected to have in her life, dropped from 2.14 in 1965 to 1.81 in 1984 and to 1.57 in 1989. The comparable figure in the United States has not shown significant movement and was 1.87 in 1987. The Japanese decline is usually explained by a change in attitude to marriage; the physical, psychological and economic cost of raising children, and the housing problem.
The decline in the birth rate, together with the lengthening of life expectancy, has brought about a rapid aging of Japanese society, creating major challenges for our social security system as well as for the future course of our Government's fiscal position, with which I am deeply involved.
In view of the decline in the birth rate and the acute labor shortage in Japan - as well as the increase in the ratio of people seeking higher education regardless of their sex - I stated my belief that it was time for the Government, especially the ministries of education and labor, to review higher education policies.
I would add that my wife, Kumiko, is a college graduate and that we are happy with our five children, two boys and three girls, from a daughter who just graduated from college to the youngest, who is in the second grade.
 
RYUTARO HASHIMOTO
Minister of Finance of Japan
 Tokyo, June 16, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: POPULATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIRTHS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WOMEN (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AGING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); 

PERSON: HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN)



167 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Parents Are Suing Parents In Long Island Murder Case

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., July 6

 BODY:
Three months after Robert Golub was convicted of the murder of Kelly Ann Tinyes in Valley Stream, her parents have sued his parents, contending that Mr. and Mrs. Golub bear partial responsibility for the girl's death because they had failed to supervise their son properly.
The suit also contends that Robert's younger brother, John, 14 years old, was involved in the murder, even though he was not charged.
The lawyer representing the Tinyes family, James T. Gucciardo, said of the Golub parents, ''They knew about Robert's psychiatric problems and they knew about his drug use, and they have a responsibility for the conditions in that house.''
In March 1989, Kelly's naked body, beaten and strangled, was found in a closet in the Golubs' basement. Weeks later, Robert Golub, then 21, was arrested and charged in her death. Robert, who told investigators that he had used steroids and other drugs but never discussed his psychiatric history, was convicted of second-degree murder in April. He has appealed the conviction and is serving a 25-year-to-life sentence in the Fishkill state prison. 
The father, John A. Golub, told Newsday on Thursday that the allegations were ridiculous. Robert Golub's lawyer, Salvatore Marinello, did not return calls.
 
Difficulties in Proof
Legal scholars said the contention that parents were liable for their children's criminal behavior was not new. In the case of Laurie W. Dann, 30, who shot six second graders in 1988 in Winnetka, Ill., killing one, the parents of the slain child have sued Miss Dann's parents. The victim's parents contend that the parents of Miss Dann, who killed herself after the attack, should have known that their daughter had severe mental problems.
Victor E. Schwartz, a partner in the law firm of Crowell & Moring of Washington and a co-author of a widely used casebook on tort law, said that in most similar cases the criminal children were younger and their crimes less serious than murder. Mr. Schwartz said such cases were difficult to win because it was difficult to prove what the parents could have done to prevent their child's behavior.
''It's hard for the plaintiff to establish a viable theory under which the jury is convinced that the parents could have done something to stop the child,'' he said.
Mr. Golub's age makes the case more difficult, he said, adding, ''It's going to be difficult to get a jury to accept the idea that a parent of a 20- or 21-year-old could in fact stop their child from using steroids or using drugs, because of the compulsive nature of the behavior.''
 
Instances of Discipline
Mr. Golub was living at home. A loner whose hobby was bodybuilding, he had worked at odd jobs over the years, but was unemployed and dependent on his parents at the time of the murder. At the trial, the prosecution used photographs and descriptions of the rubble-filled basement and unkempt house to show that the parents were poor housekeepers and inattentive.
The father testified that Robert had sometimes misbehaved and been disciplined. Once, the father removed the door from Robert's room, so Robert could have no privacy.
In a telephone interview today Mr. Tinyes said that he hoped that the suit would provide answers to questions still surrounding the murder. Since Robert's arrest, the Tinyeses say, they have suspected that the brother, John, an acquaintance of Kelly, 13, from school and the neighborhood, had something to do with the murder. John was not called to the stand.
He will have to answer questions in the civil case, Mr. Gucciardo said.
 
'The Evidence Was Destroyed'
''John J. didn't murder Kelly, but everyone feels that there was some role John J. played,'' said Mr. Tinyes, who owns an automobile-collision shop. ''But there was a massive cleanup in the basement, and the evidence was destroyed.''
In their suit, the Tinyeses say they are seeking $100 million in damages for the death, $100 million because Mr. and Mrs. Golub ''failed to supervise the activities at the residence,'' $200 million on the ground that his parents knew or should have known that Robert was vicious and mentally incompetent, $100 million on the ground that the younger brother aided in the murder, $100 million on the ground that the parents knew or should have known that their sons were using drugs and alcohol at home and $2 million because the Golub family ''concealed, hindered and/or obstructed the discovery'' of the body.
Such suits are important to victims' families, because they help them control a situation, unlike in a criminal trial, said Dennis Holland, co-chairman of Justice for All, a victims' rights group. This year Jack Henry Abbott, convicted of killing an aspiring actor in 1981, was ordered to pay $7.57 million in damages to the victim's family.
''In a criminal proceeding the victim's family has no say,'' Mr. Holland said. ''In this situation the family has the right to obtain their own attorney, and they can call the shots.''
Mr. Tinyes said his family was still bitter and angry at the Golubs, who still live down the street. ''But,'' he added, ''we can't put a price on what we've lost and we can't get our daughter back.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth and John A. Golub, whose son Robert was convicted in the murder of a neighbor, are being sued by the girl's parents; Richard and Victoria Tinyes, who are suing the Golubs, contending that they bear partial reponsibility for the murder of their daughter, Kelly, because they failed to supervise their son properly. (Photographs by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CROWELL & MORING LLP (57%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION MURDER (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TORTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); STEROIDS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); ARRESTS (71%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%); 

PERSON: TINYES, KELLY ANN; TINYES, RICHARD; TINYES, VICTORIA; GOLUB, ROBERT; GOLUB, JOHN J; GOLUB, JOHN A; GOLUB, ELIZABETH; LYALL, SARAH JOHN AGOLUB (95%); ROBERT GOLUB (95%); KELLY ANN TINYES (90%); LAURIE W DANN (59%); 



168 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, JULY 7, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 One hundred savings institutions have been chosen for top priority investigation by the Bush Administration, which has been stung by Congressional criticism that it has moved tentatively and ineffectively to prosecute savings and loan fraud. Each of the 100 units will be subject to stepped-up enforcement action. [Page 1.] The unemployment rate edged down another notch in June, to 5.2 percent, the Labor Department reported, and the number of new jobs rose to a higher level than most analysts expected - 356,000 instead of the 164,000 initially reported five weeks ago. Although the data showed growth to have remained well short of robust, the general reaction was that the Federal Reserve would not ease monetary policy, as the Bush Administration has been urging. [10.] Inflation posed too great a danger to allow interest rates to decline, Federal Reserve policy makers concluded at their May meeting, newly released minutes of the meeting show. [32.] The ''paperless office,'' trumpeted by computer companies a decade ago, is still an elusive goal, 55 million printers and billions of reams of paper later. [1.] 
 
 
 
Markets
 Interest rates soared as prices of Treasury securities plunged. Traders cited the Government's employment report. The Treasury's benchmark long bonds, the 8.75 percent issue maturing in 2020, were offered at 102 21/32, down 1 5/32, while the yield climbed to 8.50 percent from 8.39 percent on Thursday. [29.] Stocks surged 25.74 points, to 2,904.95, as measured by the Dow Jones industrial average, as the market shrugged off the Government's employment report. The rise overcame much of Thursday's 32.42-point slide, but volume dropped to the year's lowest level. [29.] The dollar was up against the yen and pound but down against the Deutsche mark and Swiss franc in domestic currency trading. Gold prices also ended mixed. [38.] Prices of grain and soybean futures plunged for the second day as more weather forecasters predicted ideal weather next week in the Midwest. [38.]
 
 
 
Companies
 British Airways has ordered Boeing 747-400 jumbo jets, Rolls-Royce engines and components that could ultimately be worth more than $8 billion. The deal involves firm orders for 21 of the long-range planes, worth $4.15 billion, and options for 12 more. The airline said it also planned to spend $1.07 billion for about 160 Rolls-Royce RB-211-524G engines and spare parts. [29.] Mack Trucks announced a $100 million takeover bid from Renault Vehicules Industriels, France's state-owned truck maker, which already owns a controlling interest. Mack, which bears the most famous name in American truck-making, said that it expected to report a $90 million loss for the first six months. [29.] The New York Stock Exchange censured Shearson Lehman Hutton, and fined the brokerage house $500,000 for improper actions during its 1986 merger discussions with the E. F. Hutton Group, Wall Street executives said. The firm settled the charges without admitting or denying guilt. [29.] Digital Equipment will open its annual DEC World computer trade show Monday in Boston with a range of computer hardware and network announcements. Its VAX computer line has been under pressure in recent years from systems that run Unix. [31.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Investors should add to municipal bond positions, in light of expected tax increases, tax and investment professionals say. Cuts are likely in capital gains taxes, the experts add. Your Money. [30.] Two medical researchers in Madison, Wis., patented a cream they said embodies a natural process for reclaiming skin damaged by sun and aging. Patents. [30.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); FUTURES (76%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); GERMAN MARK (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); GRAIN MARKETS (66%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (66%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (65%); WEATHER (61%); 



169 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: British Air Purchasing Boeing 747's

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 6

 BODY:
British Airways P.L.C. placed an order today for Boeing 747-400 jumbo jets, Rolls-Royce engines and components that could ultimately be worth more than $8 billion.
The deal involves firm orders for 21 of the long-range planes, worth $4.15 billion, and options for 12 more, worth $2.76 billion. The airline said it also planned to spend $1.07 billion for about 160 Rolls-Royce RB-211-524G engines and spare parts and $133.7 million for components from other British manufacturers.
Although the airline said the order was its single biggest investment in new aircraft, there was no competition for it. The battle for the business occurred in the mid-1980's and was decided in 1986, when British Airways ordered 19 747-400's and bought options for 12 more. Indeed, seven of the firm orders placed today involve exercising the 1986 options. Two other options were previously exercised. The first plane from the 1986 order went into service a year ago. 
 
Another Order Planned
But a battle is under way for another British Airways order. The airline plans to place an order later this year for planes that will replace its fleet of 25 Lockheed Tristars and McDonnell Douglas DC-10's.
The Boeing Company and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation of the United States and Airbus Industrie, the four-nation European aircraft-manufacturing consortium, are fighting for that order of medium- and long-range planes, which is expected to be worth $3.56 billion. The competing aircraft are the Boeing 767X, McDonnell Douglas's MD-11 and Airbus's A330 and A340.
 
Delivery to Begin in 1992
British Airways currently has 13 747-400's in its fleet. The number would rise to 42 based on the firm orders and 64 if all options are exercised. Delivery will begin in 1992 and will be completed in 1999, British Airways said.
The airline currently operates the 747-400's on routes to Australia, Southeast Asia, Japan, North America and South America. They will soon be introduced on its service to South Africa. British Airways also has 23 Boeing 747-200's.
Lord King, chairman of British Airways, said the deal signed today gave his company the right to convert the orders for any new variants of the 747 Boeing might produce. ''It is possible that during the delivery period Boeing will produce a larger version of the 747,'' he added. ''Although no details have been confirmed, we envis-age that new 747 variants could provide passenger capacities between 450 and 600 seats.''
The 747-400's that British Airways has in service have a range of 8,000 miles and have 386 seats, including 18 first class, 74 club world or business class, and 294 economy.
Lord King said today's order ''will insure that we have a sufficient flow of 747-400's to meet the growth in our intercontinental network forecast for the 1990's and beyond. The aircraft will provide extra capacity as well as allowing us to replace older Boeing 747 equipment.''
James C. Halstead, an analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said the planes that British Airways needed to replace the most were 16 747-100's that have been in service since the early 1970's, and four 747-200's that have been used since the early to mid-1970's.
Noting that the manufacturers of commercial jetliners were sitting on huge order backlogs, he said that British Airways was probably also playing it safe with its latest purchasing deal. ''They've got the equipment other people may not be able to get,'' he added.
When formerly state-owned British Airways began its life as a public company in February 1987, it was saddled with a relatively old fleet. Since then it has been aggressively modernizing it.
In its fiscal year that ended March 31, the company took delivery of 21 new planes worth 800 million ($1.32 billion). It currently has a fleet of 230 planes.
As of March 31, the company had 58 aircraft - including the 747's ordered in 1986 - on firm order. The value of those planes was worth more than $3.56 billion. It is also awaiting delivery of 13 767-300's and 27 737's, and has options on 19 767-300's, 16 737's and 8 of British Aerospace's short-range ATP turboprop airliners.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The assembly line at Boeing's Everett, Wash., 747 plant. British Airways has ordered 21 Boeing 747-400's as part of an $8 billion order. (Associated Press) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (69%); JAPAN (67%); SOUTH AFRICA (52%); ASIA (52%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (98%); BOEING CO (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; ROLLS-ROYCE PLC

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; 747-400 AIRPLANE AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN



170 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: JOB FIGURES DEPRESS BOND PRICES

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Interest rates soared yesterday as prices of Treasury securities plunged. The sharp price declines were fed by conflicting employment data released by the Government before trading began in New York and the losses became even more pronounced during the session.
On one hand, the Government reported that non-farm jobs rose by only 40,000 in June, less than half the number that was expected. But this did not cheer the bond market because the Government also revised its May employment data to show a gain of 356,000 jobs, more than double the number previously reported for the month. 
''Because the employment numbers released this morning were rather strange, the Street immediately labeled them as suspect and quickly focused its thinking on the unprecedented volume of Treasury paper to be auctioned next week,'' said Mark A. McCluskey, chief money market trader at the New York branch of Bank Julius Baer of Zurich. Equally disconcerting, Mr. McCluskey added, was the widespread belief in the fixed-income market that the Federal Reserve could not lower interest rates because the Treasury needed to attract ever-increasing numbers of buyers for the record volumes of debt it was issuing. Needed for Savings Bailout Much of the increase in Treasury debt offerings reflects the need to raise funds for the bailout of the savings and loan industry. On Tuesday, a record $5 billion of 30-year bonds are scheduled for sale to help the Government's bailout effort. The bonds traded yesterday on a when-issued basis to yield 8.88 percent, up from 8.79 percent the day before.
Mr. McCluskey said that ''there is also concern among dealers that the Street will have to develop a much larger short position before the Treasury's quarterly refundings in early August.''
''Otherwise, no one will stick his neck out at the refunding,'' he added. ''Despite today's selloff, there are still relatively few shorts in the Treasury market.''
One reason for the absence of short-sellers is that many market participants were expecting prices of fixed-income securities to rise and interest rates to decline now that the Administration and Congress appeared to be moving to reduce the budget deficit.
Dealers and other professionals normally sell Treasury paper short as a hedge against a price decline. Often, a large volume of short-selling will exert temporary upward pressure on interest rates.
As it was, the Treasury's benchmark long bonds, the 8.75 percent issue maturing in 2020, were offered late in the session at 102 21/32, down by 15/32, while the yield climbed to 8.50 percent from 8.39 percent, both the day before and a week ago. The long notes, the 8 7/8's of 2000, dropped 24/32, to 102 14/32, for a yield of 8.50 percent.
Among the shorter notes, the 8 3/8's of 1992 lost 7/32, at 100 3/32, and now yield 8.32 percent; the 8 1/2's of 1994 dropped 10/32, to 100 7/32, for a yield of 8.43 percent. While interest rates rose on the Treasury's 10-year notes, to 8.50 percent from 8.40 percent during the holiday-shortened week, they were declining on comparable West German and Japanese maturities.
 
German and Japanese Declines
The rate on West Germany's 10-year Government long bonds slipped to 8.67 percent, from 8.70 percent a week ago. The rate on Japan's 10-year bonds, the longest maturity in Tokyo, fell to 7.18 percent from 7.35 percent during the week.
On Wednesday, the Treasury will auction a record $8 billion of new seven-year notes, which traded yesterday on a when-issued basis to yield 8.52 percent, up from 8.41 percent the day before. The sale would raise $3.25 billion of new cash, some of which would undoubtedly be employed in the savings bailout.
At the short end of the Treasury market, the discount rate of the 90-day bills jumped 9 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7.76 percent; the six-month bills climbed 10 basis points, to 7.58 percent.
Dealers said part of the rise in bill rates could be attributed to the record $18 billion of three- and six-month bills that the Treasury will offer at its weekly auction on Monday.
The bill auctions are expected to raise $1.9 billion of new cash, some of which would also go toward the savings rescue effort, dealers said.
The Federal Reserve once again intervened to add reserves to the banking system by effecting $2 billion of repurchase agreements on behalf of customers. Federal funds, the key rate that banks charge each other for temporary funds, were being traded at 8 5/16 percent at the time and continued at that level throughout the session.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK JULIUS BAR & CO AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST (MONEY); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BOND MARKETS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (76%); BANK FAILURES (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); BANK BRANCHES (53%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J MARK A MCCLUSKEY (63%); 



171 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
A Few Deductions About New Taxes

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
No sooner had the words ''tax revenue increases'' formed on Presidential lips than citizens began asking what to expect and how to protect themselves. Four tax and investment professionals, despite some wisps of clouds in their crystal balls, ventured to respond to those questions.
''We will probably get a capital-gains reduction, because everyone agrees it generates revenue in the first couple of years'' by inducing people who have assets that have appreciated to sell them, said Thomas P. Ochsenschlager, head of the office of Federal tax services in Washington for the Grant Thornton accounting firm. Also, it is a cause to which President Bush has long been committed. 
''The only disadvantage is that it is perceived to be a benefit to the wealthy, so the Democrats will want a trade-off,'' Mr. Ochsenschlager added, possibly elimination of the ''33 percent bubble.'' He also cited as possibilities tax increases on tobacco, beer and wine and gasoline and environmental hazards, which he called ''the better mousetrap of the moment.''
The 33 percent bubble refers to the 5 percent surcharge levied on certain upper-income taxpayers to eliminate the benefit of the 15 percent rate on the first part of their income. Once that benefit is gone, they are taxed at a flat 28 percent. For married taxpayers filing jointly, for example, that happened in 1989 when taxable income exceeded $155,320. If they were taxed at 33 percent instead, the Government projects, an additional $45 billion would be collected over the next five years - a rather small amount given a budget deficit projected at $160 billion for 1991. Capital gains are taxed as ordinary income.
Mr. Ochsenschlager put the odds of a capital-gains reduction - perhaps a maximum rate of 20 percent - at 70 to 75 percent, but he saw only a 50-50 chance of a 33 percent top rate, given the pressure for more palatable ways to raise revenues. Asked what investors should do to prepare for tax changes, Stephen P. Rappaport, author of ''The Affluent Investor: Investment Strategies for All Markets'' (New York Institute of Finance, Simon & Schuster, 198 pages), said, ''It might be a good time to increase holdings of municipal bonds, in light of the tax exemption afforded.''
Mr. Rappaport, who is also first vice president and manager of municipal research for Prudential-Bache Capital Funding, said that for many dual-income couples in the 33 percent bracket, a buy-and-hold strategy for a portfolio of municipal bonds could be attractive, with maturities staggered from 5 to 10 years.
Because the Tax Reform Act of 1986 made real estate investments relatively unattractive, ''we're really looking at financial portfolios,'' he said.
Martin Jaffe, senior vice president and chief operating officer of Wood, Struthers & Winthrop, the investment-management subsidiary of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said that for people taxed at 28 percent, the after-tax yield on Treasury bonds is close to that of municipals, and they ''are more liquid and you sleep better.'' But for those in the 33 percent bracket, he said, municipals have a yield advantage, and any general rise in tax rates could cause them to trade at a premium.
Mr. Jaffe also considers it likely that the capital-gains rate will be cut, possibly to between 15 and 19 percent, but he cautioned against waiting for a cut before selling shares.
''If we really believe a stock is overvalued and has vulnerability, we'd sell regardless of the capital gain,'' he said. ''If we felt a stock was going to move with the market and didn't have a lot of downside, we wouldn't be in a rush to sell,'' because frequent taxable trades limit portfolio growth.
For shareholders who have very large gains, often ''we'll use that stock for charitable gifts,'' Mr. Jaffe said, because the full appreciated value is deductible for those who are not subject to the alternative minimum tax. If rates rise, the deduction would be worth more.
Like Mr. Ochsenschlager, David A. Berenson, national director of taxes for Ernst & Young in Washington, advised people who have the choice to recognize income this year rather than defer it to future years.
Although he foresees ''a good probability that Bush can avoid'' a top rate of 33 percent, Mr. Berenson said, ''Don't think you are ever going to see taxes lower than they are this year.''
With the mandate to cut the deficit, he said, Congress will move to raise revenue. Likely possibilities in today's political environment, he said, include taxes on securities sales to offset a capital-gains cut, environmental and excise taxes, lower caps on deductions for home-mortgage interest, the end of deductions for second homes, and additional estate taxes.
Far too little attention is being given to what effect these taxes would have on the economy, Mr. Berenson said. With the home-building industry already sluggish, taxes that make home ownership less attractive may tip the industry into recession, he added, costing American jobs.
He advocates instead a tax policy that encourages savings and investment - restoring the deductibility of individual retirement accounts for everyone, for instance - and one that discourages excess consumption by taxing luxury goods, domestic products and imports alike. That would raise revenue and lower the trade deficit, Mr. Berenson contends, but because it seems politically unlikely, he advises people to prepare for the possibility of a recession.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BRADFORD, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (63%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%); NEW YORK INSTITUTE (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX DEDUCTIONS; INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (52%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



172 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Control Data Acts To Sell VTC Unit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Minn., July 6

 BODY:
The Control Data Corporation is again seeking buyers for VTC Inc., its 400-employee semiconductor maker in Bloomington. Contol Data reached an agreement in the spring to sell the unit to Seattle Silicon of Bellevue, Wash., for an undisclosed amount, but delays in arranging financing have cost Seattle Silicon its exclusive purchase rights. VTC is Control Data's last big money-losing operation. Control Data, also based in Bloomington, created $100 million in reserves last year to compensate for the losses it expects to incur on the sale.
In a separate matter, Control Data this week sold Doane Information Services, a publisher of agricultural newsletters and software. Doane, which has 50 employees, will become a division of Doane Agricultural Services of Cherry Valley, Ill. No terms were disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (96%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (96%); ARBITRON INC (93%); VTC INC (91%); DOANE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VTC INC; CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SEMICONDUCTORS (88%); ELECTRONICS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); 



173 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Fed Voted in May Against Lower Rates

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 6

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers concluded at their May meeting that inflation posed too great a danger to allow interest rates to decline, minutes of the meeting released today show.
The eight-week-old records were made available amid signs that the policy makers had decided at their most recent gathering on Monday and Tuesday to stand ready to shift their policy and nudge interest rates lower if the economy weakened further.
Unidentified Government officials outside the Fed were quoted in published reports today as saying they believed the directive adopted earlier this week allowed a relaxation of the tight credit policy if additional signs of economic sluggishness emerged. 
Analysts were split over whether the June employment report released today by the Labor Department provided such evidence. The unemployment rate slipped to 5.2 percent, from 5.3 percent, but non-farm job growth was a weaker-than-expected 40,000.
In May, members of the Federal Open Market Committee voted by 10 to 1 to maintain the existing credit policy and directed central bank officials to be equally ready to raise or lower rates, depending on developments on inflation and economic growth.
Members agreed that ''current information on business conditions pointed on balance to relatively moderate but sustained economic expansion.'' At the same time, the members ''generally agreed that the prospects for significant reductions in inflation pressures during the quarters immediately ahead were not promising.''
W. Lee Hoskins, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and a prominent advocate of a tough anti-inflation policy, voted against the directive. He argued for a tighter credit policy ''to help assure that progress would be made toward a reduced rate of inflation.''
Mr. Hoskins said tighter credit would ''enhance the credibility and effectiveness of monetary policy in countering the persisting strength of inflationary pressures,'' according to the minutes.
Other members, who were not identified, went along with the directive but said that ''the need to contain and ultimately to reduce inflation might well require a firming of policy at some point.''
The Federal Reserve has been fighting inflation with higher interest rates since early 1988. In mid-1989 it began nudging rates down amid concern that the economy might topple into a recession. However, since late December, the Fed has held steady. The Federal funds rate, the interest charged among banks for overnight loans, has hovered around 8.25 percent since then.
The open market committee, which is made up of the seven Fed governors and five of the system's 12 regional bank presidents, meets in secret eight times a year to formulate monetary policy. Minutes are released about six to eight weeks later, a few days after the next meeting. There was one vacancy among the governors at the time of the May meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (66%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: W LEE HOSKINS (54%); 



174 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar and Gold Are Mixed On News of Unemployment

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended up mixed in domestic currency trading yesterday. It had closed higher overseas after the release of a better-than-expected unemployment report in the United States.
Gold prices also ended mixed. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery slipped 30 cents from late Thursday to settle at $361.10 an ounce. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $360.20, down 30 cents. 
Despite a continuing slump in the nation's manufacturing and construction sectors, the unemployment rate fell to 5.2 percent in June from 5.3 percent in May, the Labor Department reported.
 
Jump in Jobless Was Expected
Many traders had expected unemployment to jump to as much as 5.5 percent, a rise that could have encouraged the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates to stimulate the economy.
But the report ''dispelled some anticipation that the Fed might ease,'' said Ronald Holzer, chief dealer at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more attractive, and thereby enhance foreign investors' needs for dollars to buy debt instruments.
The dollar rose overseas, but turned mixed when trading shifted to the United States. Dealers said the much-anticipated employment report failed to move the market significantly, and activity was relatively thin.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 150.95 yen, down 0.05 yen from the Thursday close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted higher at 151.00 yen. In New York, the dollar rose more than 1 yen, to 151.70, up from 150.57 yen on Thursday.
The British pound rose in London to $1.7865, from $1.7795 late Thursday. In New York, a pound cost $1.7865, more expensive than the $1.7815 of Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.6515 West German marks, down from 1.6517; 1.3983 Swiss francs, down from 1.3998; 5.5435 French francs, up from 5.5430; 1,211.50 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.1619 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1640.
In London, gold was quoted at a late price of $361.25 an ounce, up from $359.75 late Thursday. In Zurich, gold was quoted at $361.25, up from $359.50. In Hong Kong, it dropped 21 cents an ounce yesterday, to $361.26.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (76%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 



175 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD: Guidepost;
Shopping for CD's

 BODY:
Yields on bank certificates of deposit rose briefly in May but have slipped gradually since, and rate analysts expect them to move lower through most of 1990. Investors may want to lock in current interest rates. Certificates of deposit are as safe as Treasury securities, while requiring far smaller minimum investments. Rate changes run in cycles as long as two and a half years; the present down cycle is in its 14th month, making short-term certificates the best buys. The table below shows the current national averages. In some parts of the country, sharp-eyed consumers can do better. Some institutions, after merging with or acquiring troubled savings and loan associations, are offering bonus rates to lure or retain depositors; these can be as much as one-half a percentage point over the regular rate. 

$	 	 	 	Maturities	 Current	May High	July '89		 	 	 	6 months	7.91%	8.01%	8.79%	12 months	8.10%	8.18%	8.83%	30 months	8.10%	8.20%	8.66%	
 
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, North Palm Beach, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (55%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); 



176 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
Travels in the U.S.: Savings Via Coupon Or Club

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
More and more vacationers are seeking significant discounts on hotel rooms in the United States through special clubs or coupon books. Those savings can extend, too, to some rental cars and short-term condominium rentals.
This relatively new opportunity to save money is provided by companies that offer discounts of up to 50 percent that become available when there are unsold rooms at participating hotels and motels and unrented cars or condominiums.
Membership in travel clubs costs $40 to $100 a year. Only one coupon book is available now, for $29.95. 
''Hotels participate in discount programs like this because getting half-price is better than an empty room,'' said Jerry H. King, president of Momentum International, a travel club based in Carrollton, Tex.
''The hotels are betting on you using their amenities, like restaurants and bars, when filling a room,'' added Arthur Salus, president of the Privilege Card, another travel club with headquarters in Duluth, Ga.
Here is how the clubs work: members typically receive an identification card and a directory of hotels and vacation condominium units. When they want to make a reservation, they select the area and a hotel from the directory and identify themselves as a member of the particular club.
Generally, reservations cannot be made more than 30 days in advance, and space must be available for the requested dates. The identification card must be shown at the time a vacationer checks in, and the prearranged discount from the standard rate is automatically applied.
 
Planning Ahead
 The hotel coupon book, ''Travel America at Half Price,'' is published by the Entertainment Publishing Corporation of Troy, Mich., which also publishes discount books for restaurants, theaters and sports events in many areas of the country.
When using the coupon book, reservations must be made in advance and members must identify themselves as participants in the program to be confirmed at the discount rate. Upon arrival, the coupon is presented and the discount granted.
One drawback of the vacation clubs is that you may not know the quality or location of the room until arrival. On the other hand, if deluxe accommodations are available, you can get them at the discounted price.
For travelers who prefer to shop for their own bargains on the phone, hotels and rent-a-car companies have a wide range of promotional packages. Employees of companies big and small can usually take advantage of the corporate discounts negotiated by their employer even when they travel on vacation.
''It's a jungle,'' said Bonnie Kogos of Zenith Travel, a New York travel agency. ''There is no one lowest rate anymore. You really have to keep scouting and getting leads.''
''It's like any other scenario as far as shopping is concerned,'' said Roxana Lewis of Chartwell Travel, a travel agency in Inglewood, Calif. ''You've got to know your territory.''
The current pricing pattern in travel stems from what economists call elasticity of demand - the responsiveness of buyers to changes in price.
When businesses in the hospitality industry think that a large group of consumers will not reserve a room or car at a higher price, at least some prices may be lowered in hopes of attracting more customers.
''The ability to find unusually good buys is a very recent phenomenon,'' said Bjorn Hanson, a senior principal of Laventhol & Horwath, a certified public accounting firm that serves many travel-related companies. ''There is some kind of embarrassment factor in not wanting to sound cheap. But the person at the reservation desk couldn't care what your income is.''
 
Questions to Ask
Mr. Hanson and other experts advise consumers to ask these questions when making reservations:
* What's the basic rate for the room or car?
* Are there any weekend or off-season packages, when a $100-a-night room may be on sale for, say, $65?
* Are there any lower rates available?
* Are there any restrictions when booking one of these special rates?
 ''A lot of cities have summer slumps,'' said Ed Perkins, editor of the newsletter Consumer Reports Travel Letter.
 ''Chicago and Phoenix are both having major summer promotions. The best way to get this kind of information is to call the convention and visitors' bureau of the city.''
 
Top and Corporate Rates
 The corporate rate is the price established by companies with a hotel chain and rental car concern for their employees' business travel. It is typically 10 to 30 percent less than the top rate for that room or car.
And frequently the corporate rate will be given to workers of those companies, if rooms or cars are available, just for the asking.
''In most major companies, they would be able to do that,'' said Dolly Bees, travel planning manager of the USF&G Corporation of Baltimore.
Ms. Bees, who is also an official of the National Business Travel Association, added, ''You can put in the contract that the hotel and car rental company will acccept leisure travelers at the corporate rate.''
 
HOTEL PLANS WITH DISCOUNTS
Here is a list of hotel plans that offer discounts up to 50 percent when space is available to members who pay an annual fee.
Concierge - 1050 Yuma Street, Suite 310, Denver, Colo. 80204. Telephone: 800-346-1022. $69.95 a year.
Entry Unlimited - 6404 Nancy Ridge Drive, San Diego 92121. Telephone: 800-843-0265. $39.95 a year.
Momentum International - 2201 Midway Road, Suite 100K, Carrollton, Tex. 75106. Telephone: 800-822-5449. $50 a year.
Privilege Card - 3473 Satellite Boulevard, Suite 200, Duluth, Ga. 30136. Telephone: 800-359-0066. $49.95 a year.
Quest International - Chinook Tower, Box 4041, Yakima, Wash. 98901. Telephone: 800-325-2400. $99 a year.
Travel America at Half Price - 2125 Butterfield Road, Troy, Mich. 48084. Telephone: 800-521-9640. $29.95 for half-price coupon book.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Travel clubs provide members with directories that list hotels and condominium units offering discounts (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (66%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (66%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (66%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; DISCOUNT SELLING HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (87%); BOOKSTORES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (77%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (58%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD



177 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: How Stanford, Wealthy and Wise, Is Cutting Costs to Stay That Way

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
On paper, Stanford University looks flush. As it turns 100 in the fall, this college of lush greenery and rust-tiled roofs is blessed with prestige, a $2 billion endowment and generous alumni who have raised nearly $1.1 billion in a fund drive.
But because its leaders expect fewer Government research grants and stiffer resistance to tuition increases, Stanford sees lean years ahead.
So the school is slashing its budget 13 percent, laying off nonteaching employees and tearing up organizational charts - all the while pledging not to raise tuition by more than 1 percentage point above the inflation rate.
 
Stanford Is First to Act
All the nation's richest and top-ranked universities face the same pressures, but Stanford is the first such school to take drastic action. 
''These concerns are quite common,'' said Henry Rosovsky, acting dean of Harvard University's faculty of arts and sciences. ''I admire Stanford for the fact they've started to tackle this, and I'm quite sure the rest of us will follow fairly soon - not necessarily in terms of major cuts, but in terms of attempting to deal with these financial questions.''
Stanford, about 35 miles southeast of San Francisco, is acting now because short-term expenses like covering a sizable budget deficit and paying out $124 million to repair damage from last fall's earthquake are converging with several long-term problems.
University officials believe the easing of East-West tensions will curb the flow of Government-sponsored military and scientific research. At the same time, faculty members conducting Government research say the steep rates Stanford charges for expenses like staff and utilities could jeopardize their ability to win such grants.
Meanwhile, parents and students have been angered by soaring tuition in the last decade, including several increases of more than five percentage points above the inflation rate. That anger persuaded Stanford officials that they could not continue to meet expenses with large tuition increases.
 
'We Can't Do That Anymore'
James N. Rosse, Stanford's provost, said that in the past many top colleges insisted that such increases were needed to attract the best professors or buy expensive equipment like atom-smashers that would give students opportunities they could not find elsewhere.
''Can I really afford to raise tuition above inflation?'' Mr. Rosse said, tracing the decision-making process. ''If so, I can afford this program. You quickly persuade yourself you ought to have the program. We prospered as an institution by following that strategy, but the world has changed and we can't do that any more.''
One result has been months of budget-cutting and streamlining. This has brought satisfaction in reducing a bloated bureaucracy along with widespread anxiety and plummeting morale among employees.
Mr. Rosse announced the austerity plan in February, set preliminary cuts for each department, reviewed department proposals and announced cuts and layoffs last month. So far, 131 of Stanford's 6,415 non-teaching employees are scheduled to lose their jobs this fall. More layoffs could come by September 1991, though all teaching positions are exempt.
Departments have devised hundreds of ideas to save money, including closing the student infirmary and referring students to nearby Stanford Hospital at an annual saving of $130,000; charging graduate students $8 an academic quarter for aerobics classes, which they now attend at no cost, and consolidating orientation mailings to new students at an annual saving of $4,000.
 
Cutting the Bureaucracy
Not only does Stanford have to decide which services are essential and which are frills, officials say, but also how to speed decision-making and rethink cumbersome management procedures.
''The administrative side of this university could be more businesslike,'' said Susan M. Schaffer, vice president for administrative resources, who came to Stanford last year after serving as a vice president at United Airlines. ''They have adopted academic decision-making processes that, frankly, are not particularly useful. There are processes here that require seven signatures. This consensus environment leads to very few people really having to stick their necks out, because no one person has the power to say, 'This is the hill we're going to take.' ''
To end some duplication of services, for instance, Stanford has created a vice president for student resources, eliminating two senior positions and consolidating services that were scattered over several departments.
Mr. Rosse estimates that the changes so far should save freshmen entering this fall $1,000 in their senior year alone. Fees will rise only 5.5 percent, to $20,210 next year, the smallest increase among leading research universities, according to a survey by College Bound, a newsletter for college admissions officers. Yale's tuition, room and board will rise 7.8 percent, to $20,820, and Harvard's will go up 6.5 percent, to $20,655.
But these cutbacks have not come without a cost.
 
'I Don't Understand Really'
''It's hard for people to understand, and I don't understand really, why this cut is necessary in a year where we're raising $1.1 billion,'' said Carolyn Lougee, associate dean of humanities and sciences, who serves on the steering committee overseeing the cuts. ''We're being forced to do things like lay off people that we never do.''
Most of the money raised in the fund drive is earmarked for specific programs, Mr. Rosse said. The cuts were necessary, he went on, because expenditures like medical insurance and library acquisitions were skyrocketing while income from research grants was dropping. Stanford faced an immediate budget deficit this coming academic year of $7 million, worsened by the bill for earthquake repairs.
Tuition and payments for room and board account for 43 percent of income in Stanford's 1990-91 operating budget. The fee charged to faculty members with Government grants for their use of Stanford buildings and equipment accounts for 30 percent more. Seventy-eight percent of each grant goes to Stanford; the rate is one of the highest among major universities.
But parents' anger over tuition increases and faculty anger over the research fees persuaded Stanford officials that they could no longer rely on yearly increases from these two chief sources of income.
The provost's office calculated that holding down these increases would cost Stanford at least $18 million over the next three years. Because such estimates have proved low in the past, Mr. Rosse said, he added $4 million to arrive at a total cut of $22 million.
Because most of the budget goes toward salaries and benefits, and because the university will not cut student financial aid, faculty positions or debt payments, Mr. Rosse said, layoffs in nonteaching jobs were inevitable. Rumors about who would lose their jobs have been circulating since February, when Mr. Rosse announced the cost-cutting drive. Most employees will find out in the next two months.
 
Bitterness on Campus
Various employee unions have staged protests, and union employees who will be replaced by nonunion contract workers staged a job action at a student center, but so far there have been no major strikes. Still, there is some bitterness.
''I think the good will and morale have really been squandered,'' said Daniel Ramirez, an administrative assistant in the residential education department,which pays for advisers, seminars and guest speakers in every Stanford dormitory. Although he expects to keep his job in the department, which faces a 20 percent budget cut, Mr. Ramirez said it would be so differently defined that he would be spending more time on menial work and would have to consider working elsewhere.
Proposals to cut the libraries' budgets 20 percent provoked concern among professors and librarians. But Mr. Rosse noted that Yale's library costs were $16,600 for each faculty member in 1987-88, as against $20,000 at Stanford.
While plans to cut the human resources office budget 30 percent drew little protest, proposals to eliminate residential computer clusters or to charge graduate students for aerobics classes brought howls.
In the end, the steering committee reduced the cuts for residential education from 20 percent to 15 percent, and library cuts from 20 percent to 16 percent. The computers will stay, but to save $105,000, the university is reducing maintenance; and students will have to wait longer to get computers repaired. But graduate students will have to pay $8 an academic quarter for aerobics classes.
No one is sure what effect the cuts will have on life at Stanford. But Joan K. Krasner, chief of access services for university libraries, said she felt certain that faculty members and students would feel the difference.
''There will be a slowdown in delivering documents, there will be a slowdown in book inventory, getting books on the shelves,'' said Ms. Krasner. ''While I think any organization can do some belt-tightening, I think once you get beyond that, you start to lose some services.''
Students will be most immediately affected by cuts in the number of graduate student advisers living in dormitories, a reduction in career counseling services and in dormitory-based programs. But over all, said Norman Robinson, acting dean of student affairs, ''I think the impact is really going to be almost imperceptible.''
Brad Hayward, a sophomore who is managing editor of the student-run newspaper, The Stanford Daily, said many students were concerned that the school could lose some of the intimacy that residential education programs brought to undergraduate life. But, he added, ''a lot of students understand what's at stake here.''
The stakes, Ms. Schaffer said, are as high as those faced by American corporations in the 1980's, when international competition forced thorough streamlining. ''The university is just entering the 1980's,'' she said. ''Just as corporate America in the 60's and 70's could keep on spending, keep on pushing costs through, all of a sudden it came to a crashing end. They have to have their ideals confront the changing realities of the economic situation.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Sunday about budget cuts at Stanford University referred incorrectly in some copies to the distance between Stanford and San Francisco. The university is about 35 miles southeast of the city.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite a large endowment, Stanford University has embarked on a drastic budget-cutting program while pledging to limit tuition increases. Above, students on the campus in Palo Alto, Calif. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times); James N. Rosse, Stanford's provost, estimated that cutbacks should save freshmen entering this fall $1,000 in their senior year (Stanford University); graph: increases in tuition at Stanford University and increases in the annual consumer price index, 1980-1990* (* 1990, estimate) (Source: Standford University) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; TUITION; LAYOFFS (LABOR); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); RANKINGS (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN HENRY ROSOVSKY (56%); 



178 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: U.S. READY TO LET SATELLITES GO UP ON SOVIET ROCKETS

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 7

 BODY:
The Bush Administration has decided to allow American commercial satellites to be launched on Soviet rockets for the first time, Government and industry officials say.
As a result of decisions made at the White House this week, an Australian commercial venture, the Cape York Space Agency, will be permitted to hire an American company to run a base in northern Australia from which Soviet rockets will carry satellites into orbit for customers from around the world, perhaps as early as 1995, the officials said.
The project provides a major opportunity for the Soviet Union to expand its international space business and is expected to increase foreign competitive pressures on the American rocket industry.
 
Industry Is Divided
Domestic rocket companies had opposed letting the Soviet Union provide launching services for American customers, but the satellite makers had favored opening up the market. Representatives for both groups said the Administration's decision seemed evenhanded, since it includes provisions intended to insure that the Soviet Union prices its rockets fairly. 
In recent years, the United States has shifted the job of launching privately owned satellites from the Government's space agency to aerospace companies. In August the McDonnell Douglas Corporation became the first company to conduct a commercial launching in the United States, and nearly a dozen launchings by several companies are expected this year.
 
Among Thorniest of Issues
But the domestic industry faces intense competition from the European consortium Arianespace, and the availability of inexpensive rockets from China and the Soviet Union is also a worry. The domestic industry has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in a business fraught with technical risks.
This week the National Space Council, an interagency committee headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, completed a broad set of recommendations on the international launching business. The decision to approve the Cape York project was among the thorniest issues in the council's policy review.
Last year China won limited approval from the United States Government to launch a few American satellites from Chinese territory. But despite the warming in Soviet-American relations, and considerable interest from American satellite companies in using Soviet launching services, there has never been any sign that the United States was ready to abandon its opposition to a cooperative arrangement, especially if it meant launching American satellites from Soviet soil. Rocket and satellite technologies are strictly controlled because of their military applications.
 
The Australian Arrangement
Now the State Department, with the approval of the White House, intends to grant an initial export license to the USBI division of the United Technologies Corporation to operate the Cape York station, where Soviet Zenit rockets could be launched beginning in 1995. The project, estimated to cost nearly $500 million, is backed by an Australian real estate development company and would not receive any Australian Government money. The Soviet space agency, Glavkosmos, would supply rockets and engineers, but would not own a share in the venture.
Despite strong opposition from American rocket manufacturers and some skepticism by other Federal agencies, the State Department is expected to issue the Cape York license once President Bush approves the new policy governing the international trade in rocket-launching services, several officials said.
The proposal for the Australian launchings of Soviet rockets first surfaced last year, but the Bush Administration decided not to make a decision on it without conducting a broad review of its policies for promoting the domestic commercial space industry. The Reagan Administration had never considered letting the Soviet Union launch American satellites, but improving relations between the two countries made the Australian proposal palatable to the Bush Administration.
Although the National Space Council's recommendations will not become final until formally approved by President Bush, the new policy has already been explained by White House officials to a few Congressional aides, and after several weeks of intense review virtually all the details have been agreed to by senior officials on the space council.
 
'A Middle Approach'
Dawn Gifford, a Washington lawyer who is director of the Competitive Alliance for Space Enterprise, an industry group that represents rocket makers and satellite makers, said the Administration had taken ''a reasonable approach'' in its policy review. ''My impression is that they have taken a middle approach that will wash well with both sides,'' Ms. Gifford said of the industry's reaction.
One rocket industry official said the new policy appeared to include safeguards against unfair competition from the Soviet Union, but this executive cautioned that enforcing those provisions might be difficult.
Satellite manufacturers tend to favor letting the Soviet Union supply launching services.
Although more licenses would be needed later for American-made satellites to be launched from Cape York, the decision to allow an American company to manage the operation in effect insures the approval of subsequent licenses as long as Australia and the Soviet Union adhere to conditions laid down by the United States.
Those conditions, as outlined in the space council's recommendations, include a Soviet promise to limit its overseas launching to a single site and to abide by an international agreement controlling the export of ballistic missile technologies, which have commercial and military uses.
Domestic rocket manufacturers, supported by officials from agencies as diverse as the Defense Department and the Transportation Department, have argued that the domestic rocket industry would suffer unfairly in a head-to-head competition with Soviet suppliers.
But the State Department viewed the Soviet-Australian proposal favorably, and American satellite companies warned that if they were prevented from putting their payloads on the cheapest available rockets they would eventually lose business to emerging foreign satellite makers who faced no such restrictions.
 
Australians Eager for Business
The Australians had pressed the proposal vigorously because they are eager to play a bigger role in the potentially lucrative aerospace business.
The Administration's policy statement declares it is in the economic and national security interests of the United States to maintain a healthy commercial industry for launching satellites. But it seeks to foster that industry by promoting further research into advanced rockets that would cost less and be more reliable, rather than by using trade barriers.
An official said the policy called for negotiating new ''rules of the road'' with the European Space Agency, which controls Arianespace. The official said such rules might include limiting subsidies and defining fair pricing for launching satellites.
The Soviet Union and China would be expected to adhere to the same fair-trade policies in pricing their rockets on the world markets, even though it is very difficult to estimate fair prices for rockets designed and built in controlled economies. How to Enforce Fair Pricing? One major point that remains to be resolved is how the United States and other Western nations would enforce the fair-pricing rules.
Some Administration officials favor using export licenses as the enforcement mechanism. For example, if the United States determines that the Soviet Union is pricing its rockets too low, licenses would be refused for future American launchings from Cape York, shutting the Australian base off from its biggest source of customers.
But the State Department is arguing that the export control laws, which it administers, are meant only to prevent the sale of militarily useful technologies to potential adversaries, and not to enforce fair-trade rules.
The domestic rocket manufacturers are already complaining that China has violated the agreement it signed last year, when the United States first allowed that country to launch a few American satellites on Chinese rockets. The American companies say China submitted an unreasonably low bid when it recently won a contract to launch a communications satellite for an Arab consortium.
The American companies, supported by their European competitors, are urging the State Department to revoke licenses for the Chinese to launch more American satellites if the United States determines that the Chinese bids have been unfairly priced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (68%); NAICS336415 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNIT & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3764 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNITS & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AUSTRALIA (97%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (82%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (68%); ARIANESPACE SA (58%); CAPE YORK SPACE AGENCY (72%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (66%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); AUSTRALIA

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS SATELLITE INDUSTRY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



179 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-9

 
State-owned apartments in Moscow may be wrested from the state's control after the insurgent new City Council voted to give them away free to millions of tenants. Page 1

 
Votes of confidence for Communists at the party congress threatened to become a vote of confidence for President Gorbachev's reforms, but a plea by Mr. Gorbachev averted the individual accounting. 4

 
News analysis: NATO's new plan for the defense of Western Europe in the aftermath of the cold war marks a break with 40 years of military strategy, but turning it into reality poses a major challenge for the alliance. 1

 
The future of East German farmers, the most productive in the Communist world but outproduced by Westerners, holds a bitter truth: their subsidized economic security is to succumb to market uncertainty. 4

 
Albania reshuffles top party 5

 
Even after president resigns, Bulgarians still have demands 6

 
Polish Parliament rejects Prime Minister's cabinet choices 6

 
Japan's plans to resume aid to China will not be opposed by the Administration, but President Bush urged Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu to slow down and limit the aid program. 6
 
American policy toward Cambodia is being reconsidered by the Bush Administration, which appears to be backing off supporting the guerrilla insurgency and considering opening contacts with Phnom Penh. 3

 
Sixty-six die in fierce battle in Sri Lanka 3

 
New Israeli-Palestinian peace talks? Concluding that an attempt to revive the process may be justified, Administration officials have scheduled a meeting in Paris with Israel's new Foreign Minister, David Levy. 8

 
Iran is building a shrine to the Imam, the man Westerners know as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Teheran plans to make the leader's final resting place a rival to all but the greatest attractions of Islam in Mecca. 8

 
Iranian press agency says Western hostage may be released 9

 
The Liberian capital is near collapse as rebel forces continued their siege and moved closer to the city's densely populated center and the mansion of President Samuel Doe. 3

 
The police in Kenya break up pro-democracy protest 3

 
NATIONAL/10-14

 
A subsidized savings and loan bailout of 15 insolvent Texas thrifts is being called the worst abuse found in the Federal bailout. An Arizona businessman was allowed to buy them with only $1,000 of his own cash and $60 million in borrowed money. 1

 
American satellites on Soviet rockets will be allowed for the first time by the Bush Administration, permitting an Australian commericial venture to use Soviet rockets to launch satellites for customers around the world. 1

 
Stanford is revamping its budget, cutting spending by 13 percent, laying off more than 100 employess and tearing up organizational charts - all while pledging not to raise tuition more than 1 percent above inflation. 1

 
Get ready for artificial reality. The newest consciousness-altering pop-culture concept, actually special clothing wired to a computer, is pushing television - and its users - into a whole new dimension. 1

 
The mood of the nation's capital has been colored by the painful morality play being acted out in the trial of Mayor Marion Barry. ''The city is in grieving,'' said Walter Fauntroy, the district's delegate to Congress. 10

 
A woman who falsely accused a man of raping her has been ordered by a Nebraska judge to apologize in half-page advertisements in four newspapers and 10 announcements on two radio stations. 10

 
Louisiana's anti-abortion bill died as the State Senate voted to sustain Gov. Buddy Roemer's veto. The House of Representatives had voted on Friday to override the veto. 10

 
Massachusetts passes bill to raise income and gas taxes 11

 
Court bars gay rights vote in Massachusetts 11

 
The homeless advocacy movement, hurt by internal strife and a decline in public support, is beset by paradox in the wake of the suicide of Mitch Snyder, the nation's best-known voice for the homeless. 14

 
Law halting jailing of runaway youths is having some success 14

 
REGIONAL/15-17

 
A Bronx art professor was acquitted of trying to murder his neighbor, whom he accused of harassing him. A jury cleared him of the eight most serious felony charges and convicted him only of third-degree gun possession. 15

 
Greekfest '90 at Jones Beach - the annual drunken frat party that last year became the scene of violence -was mostly peaceful this year, except for a few scattered fistfights. 17

 
A processor of New Jersey auto repair bills is held in bribery 15

 
Summary of action in New York Legislature's 213th session 16

 
New York City moves to bar idling engines 17

 
Obituaries 18

Clarence D. O'Connor, former head of school for deaf
 
Campus Life
23-24

Bennington tries to shake its ''anything goes'' image 23

 
Life Style 26

Jet skies: whiny annoyance or watery fun?
 
Fashion 32-33

The 60's and 70's are still right on 32

 
Weddings 33-35

 
Arts 36

Music: A Tanglewood gala
Dance: The Fiorello Festival
 
Pastimes 37-39

What grows best down by the sea 37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); POLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); RELIGION (68%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); BANK FAILURES (66%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (63%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); TUITION FEES (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



180 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Bush Accepts Japanese Aid to China, With Limits

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 7

 BODY:
President Bush told Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu of Japan today that the Administration would not oppose Japanese plans to resume its multibillion-dollar program of aid to China. But he urged Mr. Kaifu to slow down the aid plan and limit its scope.
Mr. Bush's meeting with Mr. Kaifu, coming a day after the NATO summit meeting at which the alliance declared that it no longer viewed Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union as adversaries, reflected the approach that the United States intends to adopt at the meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations that begins here on Monday.
Administration officials said that while the United States would encourage its industrial partners to seek reform in China and the Soviet Union, it accepted that each country must pursue its own foreign-policy objectives without interference from Washington. 
Mr. Bush has come under attack for not taking a more punitive stand toward China after the massacre at Tiananmen Square, and his acquiescence on the Japan loan issue may well revive criticism that his policy toward China is too accommodating.
Administration officials said that Mr. Bush would also be acquiescent about German aid to the Soviet Union because ''the Germans are hoping no one here will put a fly in the ointment as they try to buy Soviet acquiescence on German unity,'' and the President would go along with that.
 
A Cable to Gorbachev
Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman, said today that Mr. Bush had sent a cable to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev on Friday afternoon as he returned on Air Force One from the NATO summit meeting.
''This was a rather lengthy cable, which gave the President's personal reflections on the summit, expressed his support for the reforms that President Gorbachev is undertaking and just gave a little personal emphasis to the conclusions of the NATO summit in terms of the changing nature of the alliance and their reaching out to the Soviet Union.''
The President confirmed to reporters on the flight from London to Houston on Friday that he had received a letter from Mr. Gorbachev, but would not disclose the contents. Administration officials said today that the letter was a plea from Mr. Gorbachev for the United States to help him with his faltering economy, similar to a request that the Soviet leader recently sent to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain.
Japanese officials said they were hoping that at the summit meeting here this week they would persuade the six other industrial nations - the United States, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada - that continuing sanctions against Beijing would only isolate the Chinese leadership, reducing the likelihood of reform. The sanctions, including a ban on high-level contacts with Chinese officials and a freeze on development loans, were imposed at last year's economic summit meeting in Paris, after hundreds of students and other protesters were killed in the Tiananmen Square uprising in June.
''We can understand the Japanese wanting to proceed, because of their unique relationship with China,'' a top Administration official said. ''But we wish they would proceed in a more restricted form than they now envision.''
 
The Japanese Position
Regardless of the position of its industrial partners, Japan is inclined to resume credit and aid to China independently.
''We're seeking a full understanding of the legitimacy of our argument at the summit,'' Taizo Watanabe, the chief spokesman for the Japanese Government, said. ''But there does not have to be any written statement on the China issue this time.''
''Our position is that no one has forgotten Tiananmen Square, but there is more to be gained in terms of reform from an open-door policy toward China,'' Mr. Watanabe said.
Japan has been China's main source of aid and credit, and it planned a $5.2 billion, five-year program of loans. Starting last fall, Tokyo began resuming some disbursements under an existing aid program, but the freed money was earmarked mainly for the likes of food and drugs.
 
Pressure on Kaifu From Business
The Kaifu Government is coming under mounting pressure from the Japanese business community to restart normal lending to Beijing. And Japanese officials have signaled that Tokyo, with its strong links to its big Asian neighbor, is preparing to act independently of its Western industrial partners, if necessary.
''The Japanese want to change world policy on China, but they seem increasingly willing to go it alone on this,'' said Edward J. Lincoln, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''What the Japanese want from this summit is some sign from the Bush Administration that they won't take too much heat from the United States if they do resume aid to China.''
As for direct aid to the Soviet Union, Prime Minister Kaifu reiterated his stance that Japan will not participate in assistance until Moscow has settled a 45-year-old territorial dispute over four islands at the end of the Kurile chain that the Soviet Union seized at the end of World War II.
 
U.S. Stand on Aid to Soviets
In an interview here on Cable News Network, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d reiterated that even though Germany and other countries meeting here plan to send money to the Soviet Union, the United States will not provide credits or direct economic assistance.
''Before we spend taxpayer dollars on direct economic assistance to the Soviet Union, we ought to have some reasonable idea or some reasonable faith that the money is going to be well spent,'' he said.
''Some countries here will want to go with direct economic assistance,'' he said. ''Other countries, the United States included, will say we really ought to see some progress toward economic reform before we make the same mistake we made with respect to Poland in the 1970's and advance financial or economic assistance before appropriate reform.''
He added, ''We can be helpful on the economic side with technical economic assistance - help show them the way to get to a truly free-market economy.''
President Bush plans more meetings with allies for Sunday. He is scheduled to go to church in the morning with Mrs. Thatcher and to meet afterward with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada about the environment and the future of Quebec in light of the constitutional crisis there.
Mr. Bush also planned a meeting with Jacques Delors, the president of the commission of the European Community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; JAPAN; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



181 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Lawmakers Pass Bill to Raise Income and Gas Taxes

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 7

 BODY:
After three weeks of bitter negotiations that often lasted late into the night, the Massachusetts Legislature today sent a $1.6 billion tax package to the desk of Governor Michael S. Dukakis. The Governor's press secretary said Mr. Dukakis would sign the bill early next week.
The bill includes the first permanent income tax increase in the state since 1975, and is a concrete signal that Massachusetts' political leaders are coming to terms with the fact that the state's economic boom of the 1980s has ended.
The bill will raise the gasoline tax from 11 cents to 21 cents a gallon and broaden the sales tax to cover certain professional services for the first time. 
Like other states in New England and the Northeast, the state has been trying to deal with an economic downturn that has caused persistent budget problems.
The Massachusetts Legislature debated the bill late Friday night and this morning in an atmosphere of crisis. The government has not yet passed a budget for the fiscal year 1991, which began on July 1. The 1990 fiscal year ended with the state borrowing to meet a deficit estimated at $1.1 billion. Based on current proposals for the 1991 budget, the gap between spending and revenues could be just as large.
 
Opponents Gather Support
Opponents of higher taxes are gathering support for a November referendum that would reduce tax and fee revenues by at least $1.6 billion in the next three years. Jim Braude, director of Tax Equity Alliance of Massachusetts, an independent lobbying group that supports a tax increase, argues that the number would be closer to $3 billion in the next 18 months.
Citizens for Limited Taxation, the independent organization that initiated the petition, uses the slogan, ''The only alternative to tax limitation is unlimited taxation.'' In 1980, the group successfully organized voters to pass the statewide proposition that capped local property tax increases at two and a half percent a year.
In June, Standard & Poor's, the Wall Street credit-rating agency, cited the November referendum when it put Massachusetts' bond rating on credit watch, which means that if the state does not get its fiscal house in order, its credit rating could decline. Massachusetts's rating is already the lowest among the states.
The new tax bill will expand the sales tax, which is 5 percent in Massachusetts, to cover business services such as legal, engineering, accounting and architectural transactions. The tax will also cover a variety of general services, such as some long-distance telephone calls, photographic services, credit reporting and computer repairs.
 
State's Authority Challenged
Critics in the Legislature have charged that the state lacks the legal authority to tax services, while revenue officials have expressed concern about their ability to enforce the levy. After a flurry of criticism, Florida repealed a similar sales tax on business services in 1987.
Critics have also said the tax will send the wrong message to businesses that are trying to manage in a slowly growing economy. In June, the state's unemployment rate rose from 5.5 percent to 5.8 percent. The Revenue Department announced on Friday that state tax collections during the last fiscal year dropped 3.3 percent, the first time revenues have dropped since 1975. Corporate taxes skidded 19.3 percent. Legislators predict the bill will raise $1.1 billion in new tax revenues this fiscal year, and $1.6 billion next year. The bill will raise the income tax rate to 5.95 percent this year from 5.75 percent. The rate had previously been slated to drop to 5 percent on Jan. 1, 1991. The after-tax capital gains tax rate will rise from 5 percent to 6 percent. Under the proposed legislation, the income tax will again go up in 1991 to 6.25 percent, and then back to 5.95 percent in 1992.
Since 1988, when state tax revenue increased only 2.1 percent, uncontrolled spending and disappointing tax collections have virtually paralyzed a state government that had grown accustomed to double-digit revenue growth for much of the decade.
Joseph Slavet, a senior associate at the John W. McCormack Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Massachusettsin Boston, said: ''The official behavior was to consider'' disappointing revenues ''as a short-term situation that would turn itself around. From thereon in, it has been downhill.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; SALES TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); FUEL TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); REFERENDUMS (87%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GASOLINE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); CREDIT REGULATION (66%); BONDS (66%); PETITIONS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: DUKAKIS, MICHAEL S (GOV) MICHAEL S DUKAKIS (55%); 



182 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Advocates Debate How to Advance the Battle

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 7

 BODY:
This week's suicide of Mitch Snyder, the nation's best-known advocate for the homeless, came at a time when their movement was already hurt by internal strife and an apparent decline in public support.
Recent months have brought signs of what advocacy groups have begun to call a backlash against the homeless, including cuts in municipal aid to them around the country, evictions from public places and increasing public anger at begging and street encampments.
The 46-year-old Mr. Snyder, who was found hanged on Thursday at the large shelter for the homeless that he ran here, agreed in an interview last month that the movement had lost its momentum. ''We're at the point now that we were at 10 years ago,'' he said. ''We're stagnating. The issue is in recession.'' 
 
Creating Compassion
Mr. Snyder and Robert Hayes, founder of the National Coalition for the Homeless, were the two most prominent leaders of the homeless advocacy movement in the 1980's.
But in the last year, both encountered criticism within their own organizations, largely a result of personality conflicts and their reluctance to delegate authority. Last October, Mr. Hayes left his full-time job with the National Coalition to resume a law practice, infuriating Mr. Snyder, who argued that Mr. Hayes had an obligation to continue working full time for the homeless.
In a sense, the movement for the homeless is now marked by paradox.
On the one hand, more than a decade's work by advocates like Mr. Snyder and Mr. Hayes has attracted enormous attention to the problems of the displaced, whose numbers have been estimated at anywhere from 600,000 to three million. The advocates' work has established a vast network of shelters and enlisted the help of an army of student, professional and religious volunteers.
On the other hand, that showing of public support appears contradicted by the signs of a backlash among a larger public.
 
Less Money and Less Sympathy
Among these signs was a battle that Mr. Snyder lost last month in Washington, where the City Council voted to set limits on the right to shelter that it established in 1984. In May, Philadelphia cut $2 million from a program for the homeless, a reduction that officials said would mean the loss of 500 beds. And the day after Mr. Snyder was found hanged, the police in San Francisco began enforcing a ban on sleeping in public places, emptying out a plaza outside City Hall where up to 350 people had been living.
Even in Santa Monica, Calif., which has earned a reputation for generosity toward the homeless by feeding 300 people a day on the lawn outside City Hall, there is evidence of declining public support: After a homeless man stabbed an elderly woman there in March, a debate ensued over whether the city had been too generous.
Mr. Hayes said Friday that the movement had been at ''a pivotal moment'' even before Mr. Snyder's suicide, which he characterized as not only tragic but also ''lousy timing.''
Mr. Hayes, like other homeless advocates, described Mr. Snyder's death as an irreplaceable loss. ''It's going to hurt tremendously,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''Mitch was the dynamo.'' Need for New Tactics?
But others expressed confidence that the homeless movement was broad enough to be effective without him. And his detractors, including Stuart Butler of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research center based in Washington, suggested that it might even benefit from an absence of his often confrontational tactics, which included prolonged public fasts, the setting up of ''Reagansville'' shacks in the public park across from the White House early in the Reagan Administration and the dousing of Government offices with blood.
In last month's interview, Mr. Snyder defended those tactics: ''You have to make people angry to make them think.''
He also agreed that the record of his movement had become one of success and setback, citing the one major piece of Federal legislation that the movement won in the 1980's. That law, the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, named for the late Republican Congressman from Connecticut, was largely a result of Mr. Snyder's lobbying Jim Wright, then the Speaker of the House. But it provides only modest amounts of money and dedicates it primarily toward emergency relief rather than measures that would prevent homelessness.
 
The Importance of Housing
Among the issues that sometimes divide the movement's advocates is a debate over the causes of homelessness, in particular the impact of a loss of low-income housing in the last decade. Mr. Snyder often argued that the homeless were little different from other people, just poorer and less lucky, and that the main solution to their problems was to build more housing.
But other advocates, often with little publicity, have expressed frustration with that view. In an interview before Mr. Snyder's death, Sister Connie Driscoll, a nun who heads the Mayor's Task Force on Homelessness in Chicago, criticized Mr. Snyder and others for not emphasizing mental illness, drug abuse and a lack of personal responsiblity as causes of homelessness.
''That's all they do is keep screaming, 'Housing! Housing! Housing!' '' she said. ''Housing is only part of the problem.'' She added that Mr. Snyder ''has done more to damage the cause of homelessness than anyone I know.'' She declined to comment on Friday.
 
'Seriously Ill People'
Mr. Butler, director of domestic policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, argues that the apparent public backlash amounts to a rejection of the view of homelessness put forth by advocates like Mr. Snyder.
''I think it was a fundamentally flawed strategy to argue that the homeless are 'just like me and you,' '' he said. ''I think they should have argued from the start that these are seriously ill people.''
But Mr. Hayes said this debate was simply one of semantics. ''I'm the first to say that many people need more than housing,'' he said. ''But none of those other things - from substance-abuse treatment, to psychiatric care, to remedial education for kids - will work in the absence of housing.''
In addition to disagreements about the causes and solutions of homelessness, advocates have also fought over institutional authority. Earlier this year, members of Mr. Snyder's organization, the Community for Creative Non-Violence, complained to him that he had become too dominant in an organization intended to function by consensus. He pledged to step back and allow others more latitude.
 
Strife Among the Advocates
Several members of the organization also complained that its 1,400-bed shelter, to which Mr. Snyder had pointed as a nationwide model, had become plagued by widespread drug use. They won the expulsion of several resident employees who organization members said were promoting a drug trade there.
Mr. Hayes's organization has also been troubled by internal fights. A year ago, the director of the Washington office, Maria Foscarinis, split from the National Coalition to form her own organization, the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty. She has described the split as an unfriendly one resulting from quarrels with Mr. Hayes.
Since then, the National Coalition has had three different directors and is now searching for a fourth.
While infighting and setbacks are typically part of any movement, several experts cautioned that they tell only part of the story of the state of homeless advocacy. Stephen Burger, executive director of the International Union of Gospel Missions, said he had often disagreed with Mr. Snyder's tactics. But he credited him and other national advocates with placing the problem on the political map.
''I think he brought a great deal of attention to the problem,'' Mr. Burger said. ''The question is whether other people will pick it up.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''We're stagnating,'' Mitch Snyder said of the movement for the homeless in an interview last month. ''The issue is in recession.'' He was found hanged last week in a homeless shelter he ran in Washington (The New York Times, 1985); Robert Hayes, founder of the National Coalition for the Homeless, left his job with the group to resume practicing law. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; PUBLIC OPINION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS HOMELESSNESS (95%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); POLICE FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; SNYDER, MITCH MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



183 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3263 words

HEADLINE: Summary of Action in New York Legislature's 213th Session

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 7

 BODY:
In a flurry of last-minute activity during the final days of its 213th Session, the New York State Legislature approved measures to create a children's health insurance program, to cap the fees that doctors may charge the elderly and to pump $420 million into New York's hospital system.
The Legislature also acted to raise workers compensation rates for the first time in five years and to allow private betting parlors to compete with the publicly controlled Off Track Betting network.
The state's 211 lawmakers, all of whom face re-election in November, recessed at 11:38 A.M. on July 2 and are expected to spend the rest of the summer campaigning.
Before leaving Albany, the Democratic-led Assembly approved 1,677 bills, the Republican-controlled Senate 1,758. Of those, 958 bills passed both houses. 
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has already signed 370 of these bills into law; over the next few weeks hundreds more will cross his desk.
The Legislature is unlikely to return to Albany before the Nov. 6 elections. But a post-election session to deal with transportation issues appears inevitable. A corporate surcharge that generates $300 million a year for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is to lapse on Dec. 31. If it is not renewed by the Legislature, transit fares will rise steeply.
These are the major actions of the session:
 
The Budget
The state's fiscal problems absorbed most of this year's legislative session. Attempting to close a budget gap that seemed to grow wider with each passing week, the Governor and the Legislature imposed the largest tax increase in state history, totaling $1.4 billion.
The Legislature did not approve a new budget until seven weeks after the legal deadline, a record-breaking delay. The $49.8 billion budget held increases in spending for many programs to a rate lower than that of inflation. Spending from the state's general fund, made up of most state tax revenues, increased by 1.5 percent, one of the lowest rises ever. Total state spending, including Federal grants, increased by 6 percent.
Although the budget provides funds for few new programs, it supplies money to construct 4,300 new prison beds and to create several new drug treatment centers, including eight centers designated for addicted mothers and their children.
In a historic move, the Governor and the Legislature also agreed to a plan to phase out the state's annual spring borrowing. The borrowing allowed the state to roll forward an accumulated deficit of almost $5 billion. Under the plan to phase it out, long-term bonds will be issued to pay off the deficit over the next 30 years.
 
Taxes and Fees
The largest tax and fee increase ever enacted by the State Legislature included these elements:
A delay in the income-tax reduction scheduled for the fall. The cut, which is intended to bring the state's top tax rate down to 7 percent from 7.875 percent, is now scheduled to begin next year and to be phased in slowly over the following three years.
A 15 percent surcharge on corporate tax payments.
An increase in the gross receipts tax on refiners and producers of petroleum products.
A two-cent-per container tax on nonrefillable soda bottles and cans.
A doubling of the excise tax on beer, to 12 cents a six pack.
An increase in the excise tax on hard liquor: for liquor over 48 proof to $1.70 a liter from $1.40, for liquor 48 proof or less to 67 cents a liter from 55 cents.
A five percent surtax on automobile rentals.
A five percent surtax on hotel rooms costing more than $100 a night.
An expansion of the state's sales tax to cover such services as parking, interior decorating and private detectives.
An increase in professional license fees, for doctors to $105 from $40 a year, for lawyers, to $150 from $50 a year.
The Legislature also approved, and the Governor signed, measures authorizing New York City to increase its income-tax rates, its mortgage recording tax and its hotel tax.
 
Health
LEGISLATION PASSED Would revise the state's health care reimbursement formula to pump $420 million into hospitals, create incentives for hospitals to expand outpatient care and establish a state-subsidized health insurance plan for poor children.
Would allow individuals to sign proxy statements appointing surrogates to make health care decisions on their behalf if they become incompetent to do so themselves.
Would cap the amount above federally approved Medicare reimbursement rates that doctors may charge the elderly.
Would reduce the cost, expand the eligiblity limits and simplify registration procedures for the state's prescription drug subsidy program for the elderly.
Would insure that donated organs are distributed fairly to transplant patients and would provide for the licensing of tissue banks.
Would expand insurance reimbursement for cancer drugs when prescribed for conditions other than those for which the drugs have been federally approved.
Would create a new licensing and certification board for acupuncturists.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have banned the free distribution of cigarettes and banned cigarette vending machines except in bars and tobacco-related businesses.
Would have streamlined the physician discipline process by eliminating both the Board of Regents and the health commissioner from the decision-making chain.
Would have allowed dying patients to draw benefits from their life insurance policies while they are still alive.
Would have enabled the state to pay premiums for private medical insurance for poor AIDS patients who no longer work rather than paying for their Medicaid benefits.
Would have assisted the establishment of more communal housing for AIDS patients by increasing state payments to those who operate the homes.
 
Welfare and The Family
LEGISLATION SIGNED Requires government agencies to inform community officials about children's boarding homes proposed for their neighborhoods.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would establish guidelines bringing New York into conformity with the Federal welfare reform law passed in 1988, which provides for increased educational and training opportunities for young mothers.
Would allow parents to surrender their children for adoption without appearing in court, thus speeding the adoption process for children in foster care.
Would require that court-ordered child support payments for welfare recipients be automatically deducted from paychecks.
Would expand the state's Medicaid coverage to children under 6 years old to comply with a Federal mandate.
Would establish a registration system for day-care centers.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have instituted a ''no-fault'' divorce law, allowing couples to divorce after an 18-month separation even if one spouse did not want the divorce.
Would have stopped the state from collecting the names and Social Security numbers of women who have had abortions or miscarriages.
Would have required parental notification when a minor seeks an abortion.
 
Energy and the Environment
LEGISLATION SIGNED Provides for a $1.9 billion environmental bond act to be placed on the ballot in November.
Restricts development on most of Manhattan's West Side waterfront from Battery Park City to 35th Street.
Requires an assessment of solid waste impact as part of an environmental impact statement.
Renews the tax exemption for residential solar and wind energy systems.
Increases the fuel efficiency requirements for state-owned automobiles to 29.5 miles per gallon from 27.5.
LEGISLATION PASSED Prohibits the use of packaging materials that contain levels of lead, cadmium, mercury or chromium that exceed specified limits.
Requires hazardous waste producers to put into effect plans to reduce the amount of waste they generate.
Requires the recycling of chlorofluorcarbons from automobile air-conditioners.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have required companies that store, process or handle extremely hazardous substances to draw up ''risk management programs'' assessing the possibilities of chemical releases.
 
Criminal Justice
LEGISLATION SIGNED Makes it a criminal offense to possess an electronic stun gun.
LEGISLATION VETOED Would have reinstated the death penalty.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would allow houses and apartment buildings that are the site of drug dealing to be seized.
Reduces the burden of proof in cases of abuse against children younger than under 11.
Makes it a crime for a juror to enter into negotiations for a post-trial story.
Establishes regulations for labs that analyze genetic material for forensic purposes.
Requires a defense attorney to prove to a judge that information about a victim's sexual history is relevant before it may be introduced as evidence.
Makes it a class E felony to engage in the business of transmitting money without a license.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have created a new crime of ''bias-related violence.''
Would have banned the sale of assault rifles.
Would have created a sentence of life without parole for certain murders.
 
Government
LEGISLATION SIGNED Gives the Legislature the final say in whether Staten Island could secede from New York City.
Gives journalists absolute protection from contempt, in both civil and criminal cases, for failing to disclose confidential information obtained and sources used in the course of news gathering.
Exempts native Americans who consider themselves citizens of a sovereign nation from taking an oath of loyalty to the United States Constitution when starting a government job.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would establish a series of measures to improve the financial and programmatic accountability of state-financed drug treatment programs to the Department of Substance Abuse Services.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have given New Yorkers the right to force the Legislature to vote on issues of concern by collecting 250,000 signatures on petitions.
Would have prevented candidates from being thrown off ballots for trivial errors on their qualifying petitions.
Would have forced a number of elected officials, including the governor and legislators, to forfeit their salaries and per diem payments for each day that the state budget is not passed after April 1, when the fiscal year begins.
 
Education
LEGISLATION SIGNED Authorizes the New York City schools chancellor to transfer principals among schools.
Makes it illegal to pass a school bus on any school property when its red lights are flashing LEGISLATION PASSED Would create stricter state oversight of for-profit trade schools and give students at such schools expanded rights to tuition refunds.
Would abolish the Board of Examiners, which licenses teachers in New York City, and replace it with a new licensing division under the control of the city's schools chancellor.
Would extend a requirement that local school districts transport certain handicapped children to and from the nonpublic schools that they attend.
Would expand the allowable uses of absentee ballots in school board elections.
Would require colleges to provide information to students on sexual assault prevention.
Would increase financial aid and support services from the State Department of Education to local libraries.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have altered the state education-aid formula to direct more money to New York City.
Would have eased the requirements for part-time college students to receive tuition assistance.
Would have authorized school districts to conduct fingerprinting and other background criminal checks on any employee.
 
Housing
LEGISLATION PASSED Would reduce the costs to tenants of certain capital improvements on their rent-controlled and rent-stabilized apartments by requiring landlords to extend the amortization period from five years to seven years.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have reorganized the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, consolidating several finance agencies and creating a new position of state housing director.
Would have imposed a 15-year moratorium on the conversion to market-rate apartments of low- and moderate-rent units built under the state's Mitchell-Lama program.
Would have prohibited credit agencies or other organizations from sharing information about tenants who had lodged complaints against their landlords.
Would have required that aged and disabled tenants receive notification of eviction proceedings at least 90 days prior to the proposed termination date of the tenancy.
Would have required that residential leases be written in ''a clear and coherent manner using words with common and everyday meanings.''
 
Consumer Affairs
LEGISLATION SIGNED Expands the automobile ''lemon law'' to include any new car either purchased or registered in New York State.
Allows consumers to return a car deemed defective under the ''lemon law'' to a local dealer rather than having to transport it to the manufacturer's regional office.
Requires manufacturers to give a full refund or replacement of a motor home deemed defective under the state's ''lemon law.''
Prevents insurance companies from raising insurance rates in New York to recoup their losses in other states caused by across-the-board reductions mandated by referendum or other regulations.
Requires cable television companies to provide 30-day notification of any significant changes in programming.
Enacts a ''pet lemon law,'' allowing consumers to return a pet later found to be ill or malformed.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would prohibit retail merchants from writing down the credit card number of a customer on a personal check.
Would prohibit video rental outlets from disclosing video rental tape or sales records without a customer's approval.
Would expand the time warranty provisions for cars purchased under the used car ''lemon law'' to 90 days from 60 days for a car with less than 36,000 miles and to 60 days from 30 days for a car with more than 36,000 miles but less than 80,000.
Would increase amounts of automobile liability insurance drivers must carry on their policies to $25,000 from $10,000 for injury of one person and $50,000 from $20,000 to for injury of more than one person.
Would require expanded warranties on auto parts.
Would raise the cap on what health clubs may charge for annual memberships from $1,200 to $3,600.
Would require more frequent state inspection of indoor tanning salons and higher penalties for defective equipment.
Would require more frequent state testing and inspection of all bottled water products sold in New York State.
Would require manufacturers to offer verification for any advertising claims made about water-treatment devices for home faucets.
Would require travel promoters to provide prospective customers with a full disclosure of the prices and terms of travel arrangements.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have given the consumer the right to cancel within three days any sales order placed over the telephone.
Would have transferred responsibility for auto insurance on rental cars from the rental company's policy to that of the person renting the car.
 
Labor And Business
LEGISLATION SIGNED Raises New York State's minimum wage for all workers to $3.80 an hour and to $4.25 an hour in April 1991 and forbids use of the federally approved sub-minimum, or ''training,'' wage.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would raise workers compensation benefits for the first time in five years, to a maximum of $350 a week in July 1991 and $400 a week in July 1992, and gradually eliminate the distinction that required lower rates for partially disabled workers.
Would provide expanded state grants and other assistance for New York companies seeking to export their products.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have required the use of American-made steel in major construction projects unless the cost was unreasonable or the steel was not available in adequate quantity.
 
Transportation
LEGISLATION SIGNED Requires motorists to turn on their headlights whenever it rains or snows.
As part of an omnibus trucking bill, allows some wider trucks on New York State roads but also imposes new safety measures on trucks, including stiffer penalties for drunken-driving or safety-inspection violations and a ban on the use of radar detectors by truckers.
Gives the public a minimum of 30 minutes to speak on a topic on the agenda of a meeting of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Increases fines for people who illegally park in handicapped parking spots.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would authorize New Yorkers to vote on a constitutional amendment repealing a prohibition against charging tolls along the Erie Canal although a similar vote is required in next year's legislative session before the measure may be put before the voters.
Would authorize the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to proceed with plans to install an automated fare-collecting system on New York City's subways and buses.
Allows design and engineering work for the fourth lane of a 12-mile section of the Long Island Expressway between Huntington and Hauppauge to proceed before an environmental impact statement has been completed.
Would create a Nassau County-wide parking violations bureau.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have established a dedicated trust fund for highway and bridge repairs from existing highway, gasoline and other taxes.
Would have reduced the blood alcohol level for a driving-while-intoxicated conviction to .08 from .10 for all motorists and to .04 for those under 21 and would have allowed immediate on-site license suspension upon arrest on such a charge.
Would have raised the penalties for operation of a boat while drunk and would have required boat operators to submit to breath tests.
Would have permitted automobile registrants and holders of driver's licenses to request the Department of Motor Vehicles to keep their names and home addresses confidential.
Would have removed the New York State Thruway Authority's jurisdiction over the control of billboards within two miles of any exit on the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway.
 
Agriculture
LEGISLATION PASSED Would prohibit the use of eminent domain for converting farmland into solid-waste sites.
Would authorize the commissioner of agriculture and markets to indemnify farmers whose poultry are ordered slaughtered because of exposure to salmonella poisoning.
Allows proceeds from the sales of beeswax and honey to be counted toward the $10,000 gross sales requirement for land classified as agricultural property.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have established a ''dairy farmer's bill of rights,'' intended to provide protections against coercion by milk dealers.
Would have reduced the tax assessment on many farmlands to discourage sales of such property.
Would have created a special agricultural studies scholarship program for children of farm families, intended to encourage them to stay in agriculture.
 
Miscellaneous
LEGISLATION SIGNED Expands simulcasting of horse races, allows race tracks to operate their own teletheaters and telephone-betting lines and reopens Tioga Park Raceway near Binghamton.
LEGISLATION PASSED Would outlaw dwarf tossing and dwarf bowling in places where alcohol is served.
Would outlaw the use of vertebrate animals in school science experiments that cause pain, suffering or death to the animal.
Would outlaw the playing of ''boom'' radios in cars at high volumes.
Would designate the emerald green Empire spring mineral bottle of Saratoga as the official state bottle.
LEGISLATION KILLED Would have allowed alcohol to be sold in pool halls.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about bills adopted in the New York State Legislature misstated the status of one.
The bill, which would have made it illegal to use vertebrate animals in school science experiments that cause pain, was passed by the Assembly but killed in the Senate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lobbyists outside the Senate Chamber in Albany waiting for news of the legislators' decisions on bills they supported during the Legislature's 213th session. (David Jennings for The New York Times); drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); STATE LEGISLATURE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (71%); BONDS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); BOND ISSUES (66%); TAX RELIEF (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



184 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 35, Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Jill Dara Suttenberg to Wed in August

 BODY:
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Suttenberg of Syosset, N.Y., have announced August wedding plans for their daughter Jill Dara Suttenberg and David Matthew Altshuler, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Alan A. Altshuler of Belmont, Mass. Miss Suttenberg, 24 years old, graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University. An associate at Corporate Decisions, a Boston management consulting firm, she is also a saxophonist and the director of the Sunday Jazz Band at Harvard. Her father is an engineering department manager at the Unisys Corporation in Lake Success, L.I. Her mother, Judye Suttenberg, is a division sales manager in the Plainview, L.I., office of World Book Childcraft International, an educational publishing company in Chicago.
Mr. Altshuler, 25, graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is a candidate for a Ph.D. in genetics and an M.D. at the Harvard Medical School. His mother is an academic program officer for the Massachusetts Board of Regents of Higher Education in Boston. His father is the Ruth and Frank Stanton Professor of urban policy and planning at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and Graduate School of Design.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jill Suttenberg (Bachrach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (71%); UIS (SWX) (71%); UIS (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNISYS CORP (71%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); PUBLISHING (68%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SUTTENBERG, JILL D; ALTSHULER, DAVID M JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); 



185 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 23, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Bennington College;
Trying to Shake Off 'Anything Goes' Image

DATELINE: BENNINGTON, Vt.

 BODY:
Long known for its free-spirited environment, Bennington College is trying to shake off the image that, in the words of one administrator, ''anything goes here.''
Recent disruptive events at this more liberal of liberal arts colleges have prompted students, faculty members and administrators to think seriously again about codes of conduct and to enforce them.
Last fall, students in one dormitory were redistributed to other dorms after the students held an ''immorality party'' during a parents' weekend. The party included the crucifixion of a dead oppossum. Last month, a tenured drama professor was discharged after a board of students and faculty and staff members found that he had violated sexual-harassment guidelines. 
The teacher, Leroy Logan, has denied the allegations, and has filed an appeal of the decision with the college president.
 
'Tolerance Is Not a License'
This was the second time in 20 years that a faculty member had been dismissed for sexual harassment at Bennington, where roughly 600 students come each year to study in an environment free of grades and other traditional measures of performance.
Many in this close-knit community see a need to set explicit codes of behavior. But some worry that the college's valued tradition of tolerance may be endangered.
The college's president, Elizabeth Coleman, insists that while the community will continue to strive to break academic conventions, it should also acknowledge the responsibilities that come with freedom.
''Tolerance is not license,'' Dr. Coleman said. ''The challenge is how to make that clear without compromising spontaneity.''
Dr. Coleman and the community have several other challenges ahead. Administrators, faculty members and students are reviewing the school's curriculum, while admissions guidelines have been reorganized to include a second high school teacher recommendation. In addition, the college is about to embark on a $30 million capital campaign drive to expand the library and to start the first substantial endowment at the college since it was founded in 1932.
Dr. Coleman and other college officials declined to comment on the details of last month's sexual-harassment case.
 
Money Problems Fade
People from all sectors of the college say the dismissal and other events of the last year are signs of a renewed emphasis on defining and enforcing codes of conduct at the school, as well as of a sharper focus on educational priorities.
Dr. Coleman said the initiatives have become possible only since the college emerged from a financial crisis in the early 1980's.
''For years, all Bennington talked about was money,'' Dr. Coleman said. ''Despite its brilliant history and its brilliant pedagogy, the college has been strangely inarticulate about the educational experience it offers.''
Joan Goodrich, the director of student affairs, said the perception that ''anything goes'' at Bennington is no longer accurate. Until about three years ago - shortly before Dr. Coleman became president - Ms. Goodrich said, the school's disciplinary guidelines for both students and faculty members were ill-defined and inefficient.
''We were unable to function internally because our procedures were faulty,'' Ms. Goodrich said. ''Rules and Bennington didn't seem to go together.''
Now, she said, the school is evolving. ''We're readdressing the values that Bennington was about to begin with.''
 
Sex-Harassment Complaint
The interim sexual-harassment policy was put in place in September 1989. Work on the policy began a year earlier, but the process was speeded up after a female student, who said she was frustrated with existing procedures, took a complaint of sexual harassment to the Vermont Human Rights Commission.
That matter was settled with no finding of liability, though the woman received $4,000 from the college as part of the settlement and the college agreed to adopt comprehensive sexual-harassment guidelines.
''They told us we had to get our act together,'' Dr. Coleman said. A final version of the sexual-harassment policy was adopted last month.
The policy sets forth a three-tier system of response to harassment allegations. Possible responses include informal counseling and mediation by a senior college official. Both of those actions may be bypassed in favor of a formal complaint and inquiry. Any action may be appealed to the president, whose decision is final.
Not everyone at the college is happy with the new guidelines. Some students and faculty members are concerned that the rules have altered what they describe as a special student-mentor relationship at the college.
''The students are almost apprentices to you,'' said William Dixon, who has taught in Bennington's music department for 22 years. ''We know them both as students and as people, but now I think the tendency would be to back off from being that kind of teacher for fear of repercussions.''
Others, however, applaud the effort to define norms of behavior. ''A student has to be able to say, 'Whether you mean it or not, you're making me uncomfortable,' '' said Lillia Mead, a junior from New York City who studies dance and psychology.
 
'Immorality Party'
The movement toward disciplinary enforcement is not confined to sexual relations. Ms. Goodrich said that in recent years the college has tried to combat the perception on and off campus that destructive behavior is acceptable here.
To accomplish that goal, the judicial committee was revamped in 1987 to include faculty and staff members as well as students. Before then the committee comprised only students.
''If I had a complaint, the students took the whole system completely as a joke because the committee was made up of their friends,'' Ms. Goodrich said.
The newly constituted committee went through a baptism by fire last fall after the administration began a series of discussions on student behavior.
A group of students took exception to the tenor of the discussions, and in protest threw an ''immorality party'' during parents' weekend. The students who were involved vandalized their dormitories and scrawled antiadministration graffiti on the walls.
When dormitory members refused to single out particular students for blame, the committee recommended disbanding the entire dormitory. The administration agreed.
''The entire school spent too much time talking about students who had sabotaged their own rights,'' said Michelle Bogin, a senior literature major from New York City. ''We have to remember that we're really here for the education.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BENNINGTON COLLEGE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENNINGTON COLLEGE

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ETHICS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ETHICS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); APPEALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: ELIZABETH COLEMAN (94%); JOAN GOODRICH (58%); 



186 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 19, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Etienne Chatiliez Fishes His 'River' For Clues to Life

BYLINE: By DONALD CHASE; Donald Chase is the author of ''Filmmaking: The Collaborative Art'' (Little, Brown).

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
Etienne Chatiliez is the big noise these days in popular French cinema. In 1988, after directing some 70 television commercials notable both for their humor and their against-the-techno-glitz-grain narrative qualities, he made a resounding leap into feature film with ''Life Is a Long Quiet River,'' which opens in New York on Friday at the Paris Theater.
A mordant social comedy about the collision of two families of vastly different classes and values, the ironically titled ''River'' became the most-seen and most-discussed French film of its year. It even gave such an American blockbuster as ''Who Framed Roger Rabbit'' a run for its francs. Then, earlier this year, the 38-year-old Mr. Chatiliez adroitly sidestepped a sophomore slump with ''Tatie Danielle,'' a ''Driving Miss Daisy'' antidote whose seniorcitoyenne heroine copes with old age through a calculated, often hilarious misanthropy. (Miramax will release the film in the United States early next year.) So, why, over late-morning toast and tea in the sunny kitchen of his sprawling Right Bank apartment, is the lanky, dark-blond director a tad grumpy? 
It turns out that one mark of his success is membership on the board of the French governmental organization that supplied about 15 percent of the production budget of ''River.'' This requires Mr. Chatiliez to read screenplays submitted for subsidies by other writer-directors. And because he wants to give as well as he got, he says he goes each afternoon ''to the park with two scenarios, resolving not to leave until I've read them carefully. And then, suddenly, it's 5 o'clock - the day's gone.''
Mr. Chatiliez's penchant for dispensing equal justice comes as no surprise to anyone who has seen his (and co-screenwriter Florence Quentin's) satirical skewering of both the families on which ''Life Is a Long Quiet River'' centers.
One, the Le Quesnoys, leads an almost insanely regulated haut-bourgeois existence centered around work (the executive-type father); home (the maid-assisted, charity-minded mother); school and church (the five robotlike children, each undergoing a traditional Roman Catholic education) and healthy family outings (canoeing is the sport of the moment).
In contrast, the Groseilles live on the margins of society, in a chaos compounded of unemployment (the father); fads and fancies (astrology and hair coloring on the mother's part); and truancy and petty theft (the six unruly children).
The two families are brought together by a plot device: the put-upon mistress-nurse of an obstetrician reveals that 12 years earlier she switched the nametags on the Le Quesnoy and Groseille babies born within minutes of each other. The right-thinking Le Quesnoys pay to ''adopt'' their Groseille-reared son (who has most of the bad habits of his environment). At the same time, they try to keep from the Groseille girl they've raised (and to whom they've passed on most of their prejudices) the secret of her lowly birth.
''The idea with the Groseilles was to have people acting more like animals than human beings,'' Mr. Chatiliez says. ''They're not showing that they love each other. They don't have to show that they love each other - it doesn't matter.
''And the other family is totally the contrary. They had to be so careful with each other: 'You're so cute; you're so nice' - all day long. But it doesn't prove anything. And that was the idea. Between the people who don't show and people who show affection - where is the truth?''
Not, on the evidence of the film, in any meaningful exchange of values or life styles between the two families. ''I don't think that the Le Quesnoys learned one thing, except maybe that life isn't as pretty as they thought it was,'' Mr. Chatiliez remarks. ''And the Groseilles only found'' - through their exploitation of the Le Quesnoys - ''another way to make money without working for it.'' But the director says that it was not his and Miss Quentin's intention to judge or propose solutions.
''We only wanted to show what we had seen around us,'' he elaborates, ''and to laugh because we don't like to cry at something when you can laugh. But I don't think that a movie can change things.'' This apparent pessimism could stem from the fact that in all the considerable public and private discussion that ''River'' inspired in France, Mr. Chatiliez says, ''Everybody was talking about people like the Groseilles and the Le Quesnoys, but it was always the guys next door. It was like talking about people who drink and drive - you're never the one.''
If the film also prompted debate on the general question of nature vs. nurture, this was in line with the most serious intention the director will admit to. ''It was a way to say: Maybe you're blood, but maybe you're education, too. If you were to be separated from your natural family and brought up by another one, you wouldn't be the same person.''
As for Mr. Chatiliez's own education, it ended with the completion of his studies at a public high school, rather early for someone who was ''part of a bourgeois family from the north of France.'' In fact, ''River'' was shot in the Lille area, about 130 miles north-northeast of Paris, not far from the director's birthplace. ''But,'' he says, ''we were not at all like the Le Quesnoys, not at all. My parents had education and culture, but they were not rigid; they let me do whatever I wanted.'' What he wanted was to go, at age 18, to Paris, where he worked in advertising for 10 years, mostly as a copywriter, before beginning to direct commercials. ''No, the Le Quesnoys come from other people I met when I was young, from details that stay in your mind as if it were a bank.''
The Groseilles, in turn, were inspired by ''someone vaguely an actress'' whom Mr. Chatiliez had directed in a commercial. ''She would come to the set with two or three of her children, who would steal everything in sight.'' She also had a husband just released from prison - exactly the situation of the oldest Groseille son.
For Mr. Chatiliez, one pleasure of movie making is working with actors, and he considers himself fortunate to have begun his feature career working with a large number of debutant juvenile actors. ''They are who they are,'' he says. ''They're not 'acting'; they're just playing. It was a relief to me, because doing your first film with Catherine Deneuve and Gerard Depardieu, you're not on the same level; you're scared. With kids nobody knew anything.''
Feeling ready now for Miss Deneuve and Mr. Depardieu after directing the venerable stage actress Tsilla Chelton in the title role of ''Tatie Danielle,'' Mr. Chatiliez also mentions some Americans he particularly admires: Robert De Niro, Richard Dreyfuss, Meryl Streep, Laura Dern and Sally Kellerman. But having had daunting experiences directing American commercials, on which he was asked to be ''just a technician,'' he has little desire to work for a Hollywood studio. (Walt Disney Studios is, in fact, planning an Americanized remake of ''River,'' in which Mr. Chatiliez is not participating.) ''I'm talking in my films about myself,'' he says, ''about what I see and know. I'm talking about society, about what's happening today in France. So I think I'd like to stay here.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mr. Chatiliez, at upper left, with members of his cast on the set of ''Life Is a Long Quiet River,'' opening Friday in New York (MK2 Productions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LIFE IS A LONG QUIET RIVER (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WRITERS (69%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (64%); BUDGETS (64%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: CHASE, DONALD; CHATILIEZ, ETIENNE ETIENNE CHATILIEZ (94%); 



187 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 8, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
Presenting the Bolshoi: It's a Long Way From Sol Hurok

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
When it opens on Tuesday at the New York State Theater, the Bolshoi Ballet will not look too different from the way it did on recent visits. During the two-week engagement, the company will present a familiar quota of full-evening classics and spectacles - from ''Swan Lake'' and ''Romeo and Juliet'' to ''Ivan the Terrible,'' a modern-day signature work by Yuri Grigorovich, director and chief choreographer of the Moscow troupe for the last 26 years.
In addition, there will be a program of short works and excerpts drawn from a repertory that includes ''Petrushka,'' ''La Sylphide,'' ''Le Corsaire,'' ''Don Quixote'' and ''Paquita,'' as well as Mr. Grigorovich's ''Spartacus'' and ''Golden Age.'' Although Irek Mukhamedov, the Bolshoi star who recently left Moscow to join England's Royal Ballet, will not be performing with the company here, Americans will have their first look at three new Russian male stars - Gedeminas Taranda, Yuri Kletsov and Mark Peretokin. Leading the company of 120 dancers will be Lyudmila Semenyaka, Aleksei Fadeyechev, Nina Semizorova and Nina Ananiashvili.
But there are significant - and controversial - differences, which are in large measure the product of perestroika, the restructuring of Soviet society and its economy. This year, the Bolshoi is being presented by a new team: the Entertainment Corporation USA and James M. Nederlander, the Broadway producer. 
Founded in 1982 by Peter Brightman and Victoria Charlton, the London-based Entertainment Corporation Group has moved in on the Soviet performing arts. The English husband-and-wife producing team quickly began to bring Russian attractions to Britain, and in 1988 started negotiations with Soviet authorities to bring the Bolshoi Ballet to the United States.
The Metropolitan Opera, which last presented the Bolshoi in New York, lost out to the Entertainment Corporation primarily because it could not offer as extensive a tour as the British firm, according to Charles Dillingham, former executive director of American Ballet Theater and president of Entertainment Corporation USA, the British organization's New York arm. After the New York engagement, the seven-city tour will continue with performances at the Filene Center/Wolftrap Farm Park in Vienna, Va. (July 24-29), the Arie Crown Theater in Chicago (Aug. 1-5), the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles (Aug. 7-9), the Civic Theater in San Diego (Aug. 21-24), Blaisdell Arena in Honolulu (Aug. 29-Sept. 2) and the Wang Center in Boston (Sept. 6-9).
But the Entertainment Corporation also offered something extra: a business partnership with the Bolshoi, as well as the Kirov Ballet of Leningrad, that has raised cries of commercialism here and in the Soviet Union. Under the terms of exclusive six-year agreements with the Bolshoi and the Kirov, and Gosconcert, the Soviet State Artists Agency, the Entertainment Corporation will copyright the Bolshoi and Kirov names, develop international corporate sponsorships and license and market products bearing the dance companies' names. The troupes also plan to endorse products.
Gosconcert and the two ballet companies will receive 60 percent of all profits, with the rest going to the Entertainment Corporation.
''We have now spent well over a half million on development capital to register and protect the names,'' Mr. Dillingham said in a recent interview in his office near Lincoln Center. The Entertainment Corporation and the Nederlander Organization will split profits from the tour, the cost of which Mr. Dillingham describes as ''in excess of $10 million,'' with a fee that Mr. Dillingham would only term ''substantial'' going to the Bolshoi Ballet.
Not everyone is happy with this new step into the future. The agreements helped to stir a recent one-day hunger strike in Moscow by six Bolshoi artists, led by Yuri Grigoryev, a singer with the Bolshoi Opera, in response to what Mr. Grigoryev labeled ''an atmosphere of money making'' at the Bolshoi.
Mr. Dillingham said: ''Grigoryev is a singer in the opera, a tenor in the chorus, but what he really is is the head of the Communist Party at the Bolshoi Theater. It's very hard for Americans to understand how the party had this apparatus in every institution in the country. Under perestroika, this man is losing his power. They don't listen to him anymore. So, he is seizing every opportunity he can to attack management, because the ground is shifting under his feet.
''One example of that is that his contract has not been renewed. Under the old, pre-perestroika conditions, this would have been unheard of. He could have sung until he was 90. And, of course, he's got people in his group, party members, who are clinging to the old levers of power.''
Mr. Dillingham described the strike as a protest not only against Mr. Grigorovich, but against Vladimir Kokonin, the administrative head of the entire Bolshoi theater, and Aleksandr Lazarev, the artistic director and chief conductor of the Bolshoi Opera.
But New Yorkers have also been complaining about commercialization of the company. Ticket prices, which range from $25 to $105, are the highest that have ever been charged for a ballet presentation in New York City. Comparably, the New York City Ballet charges from $6 to $46. Ticket prices for the Australian Ballet, which opens at the Metropolitan on July 23 for a week, range from $11 to $85. ''Ticket prices will not be as high on the rest of the tour,'' Mr. Dillingham said. ''The State Theater is a thousand seats less than the smallest theater elsewhere on the tour. Even at these prices we will just break even. I know it's a high prices, though translated into pounds it is about the same as charged in London. It is a higher price than people are used to paying here. We agonized over it and finally decided we had to at least break even.''
Mr. Dillingham pointed out that the tour expenses entail hotel accommodations and travel that must be arranged for 165 people. ''There is an orchestra of 80 in each city,'' he said. ''The Bolshoi doesn't travel with an orchestra, so we have to re-rehearse in each city. The company has a big repertory, lots of scenery and huge backstage costs.'' Neither Mr. Dillingham nor Mr. Nederlander would discuss their projected profits from the tour.
Yet, according to Mr. Dillingham, it has become less cumbersome to present Soviet performing arts companies today. The 1959 engagement of the Bolshoi Ballet in New York, its first in America, was the result of 30 years of negotiating between the impresario Sol Hurok and the Soviet authorities.
''It would be very easy to say that it was easier in the old days, when you just went to Gosconcert and made a deal and came away,'' Mr. Dillingham said. ''But no one really wants to go back to that. Under perestroika, the companies and artists are much freer. There is much more of a Western atmosphere, more competition. That's what we have been trying to teach the Russians about, and they're learning very quickly. It is a vast change, and for the better.''
Dealing with Soviet authorities has, in most instances, also become more efficient. ''An example,'' Mr. Dillingham said, ''is that once the contract was signed with Gosconcert in 1988, we were basically free to arrange everything with the company, such as repertory and theaters. Instead of having to go through a bureaucrat and Gosconcert for answers, we can go to the company director through Telex. As the Russians are now dealing with management all over the world, they're learning much more about how the West does business, organizes, communicates in general.''
Ballet, Mr. Dillingham continues, has had to become a business in the United States to survive. ''You see that with the troubles that some of the companies, like Dance Theater of Harlem, are having. And I don't think they're the fault of the company. Business, the corporations, are bailing them out.''
''But a similar situation confronts the Bolshoi and the Kirov. Under perestroika, the essence of the economic restructuring is to reduce Government subsidy of enterprises. The two companies must earn more of their income from tours abroad.'' Mr. Dillingham said that every major performing company in the world, including the Royal Ballet and the Royal Danish Ballet, has told him that their governments are trying to reduce subsidies and encouraging them to tour. ''Not that there will be no subsidy, but less,'' he said. ''So, companies are touring more and raising their fees, all over the world. Hard currency is hard currency.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aleksei Fadeyechev in the Bolshoi's ''Ivan the Terrible''-Some classics will return (Monroe Warshaw/The Entertainment Corporation); Charles Dillingham of Entertainment Corp.-''We'll just break even.'' (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN AGE FISHERIES (56%); NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOLSHOI BALLET; NEW YORK STATE THEATER

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); OPERA (62%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER YURI NIKOLAEVICH GRIGOROVICH (72%); 



188 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
An Architecture That Set Out to Shake the World

BYLINE: By Paul Goldberger

 BODY:
It is convenient to forget that for a brief moment in the 20th century, the Soviet Union was a throbbing center of modern art and architecture, perhaps even the most advanced country of all in terms of its official level of taste. Modernism was not born there, but it could well be said to have reached its fastest, and in some ways its most promising, flowering in the Soviet Union. Where else, after all, could modernism's utopian, socialist leanings be in such perfect sync with everything going on in the realm of politics? Art as revolution, revolution as art: in the late teens and through the 1920's, art and revolution were as one, the new art the perfect embodiment of the new world the Leninists were making. 
It did not happen that way, of course, and therein lies a tale that tells us far more about the nature of politics than about the nature of art. Ultimately, as the Soviet Union grew less radical and more repressive, as its utopian dreams turned into dictatorship, so, too, did its willingness to let modern art be its symbol. In the 1930's the country went from celebrating modern art to condemning it - abstraction was purged as surely as a Stalinist enemy, and a clunky, heavy-handed historicism, euphemistically named social realism, took over as the official style. The purge, at least in architecture, was so complete that most standard histories, even in the West, dismiss Russian modernism with a couple of lines: it is as if all of this had hardly happened at all.
''Architectural Drawings of the Russian Avant-Garde,'' which opened late last month at the Museum of Modern Art, where it will remain through Sept. 4, tries to right the balance. This handsome exhibition of roughly 150 drawings comes from the A. V. Shchusev State Research Museum of Architecture in Moscow, the major archive of Russian avant-garde architectural material, and it marks the first time that any of these pieces have been shown in the United States.
That alone justifies a trip to the Modern: No one can walk through the first-floor galleries and ever again think that Russian architecture went from onion domes to Stalinist towers in a single leap. Here before us are three roomfuls of stunning evidence that a rich and fertile period lay in between - a period whose legacy is admittedly more a matter of drawings than of actual buildings, given that Russia in the 1920's was longer on imagination than on economic strength or technical expertise. (Stuart Wrede, the Modern's director of architecture and design, makes the telling observation in the exhibition catalogue that ''perhaps, as in the case of the Futurists in Italy, the country's technological backwardness was liberating.'') But if ''Architectural Drawings of the Russian Avant-Garde'' is laden with impressive drawings, this is hardly the exhibition on the architecture itself that we have been waiting for, or on Russian modernism in a broader way, or on the complex and intriguing relationship of this whole tradition to the architecture of today.
For by limiting the exhibition to the drawings borrowed from the Shchusev Museum, the Modern and Mr. Wrede have chosen to cast their net narrowly - so narrowly that they have not even included several closely related objects from the museum's own collections. Thus the museum's works by Kasimir Malevich, the artist who was a major influence on Russian avant-garde architecture, as well as the museum's exquisite model for Le Corbusier's proposed Palace of the Soviets, are conspicuously absent from this exhibition, even though they would have broadened its scope and deepened its meaning considerably. (In a kind of grudging acknowledgment of their importance, however, these objects have been set apart in the museum's architecture and design galleries on the fourth floor, three floors away from the main exhibition.) So we are left with a main event that, if visually potent, is strangely narrow in scope. I don't mean to make so much of this, but it was an odd curatorial decision to show the drawings from the Shchusev collection in a kind of vacuum, given how much there is to say about the connections between Russian avant-garde art and architecture. And it becomes even stranger still when you consider the close ties between all of this architecture and the Deconstructivist style that the Museum of Modern Art itself proclaimed to be the mode of the hour just two years ago. For Russian avant-garde architecture is what primarily inspired Deconstructivism; the name of this trendy style of our day is even a play on Constructivism, the school within the Russian avant-garde that emphasized clarity of structure. Is it that the Modern, having made such a fetish of the child two years ago, now wants to disown the connection between Deconstructivism and its much more interesting parent?
Only Mr. Wrede knows, and he does not say. If his intent was to let these drawings from Russia speak for themselves, however, this exhibition does that well. Even without the broader context that would enrich them, the drawings tell a story, and it is a remarkable one, a tale of the gradual eclipse of architectural vision by bureaucratic philistinism.
How passionately the Russian avant-garde architects believed in the ability of architecture to remake the world! And how decisively was their quest destroyed by a government that, the more repressive it became, the more determined it was to stifle modernism. Never has there been a clearer demonstration of the extent to which modernism represented a kind of intellectual freedom, a freedom intolerable to a dictatorial regime - except, of course, in Nazi Germany, where the same tragic drama was playing itself out, with the same poignancy.
It is easy, but facile, to conclude from all of this that the connection between modernism and an open society is a complete and natural one, and that wherever freedom flourishes, modernism does as well. It's not nearly so simple, of course, as the recent architectural history of this country makes clear. Modernism did flourish in the United States after World War II, but less as a symbol of revolution than as its very opposite, as a symbol of the corporate state.
Indeed, the irony of American architectural history is that modernism here came to represent not utopian, socialist yearnings but corporate power in the form of the glass skyscraper. In the last decade American architecture has returned to classicism, but this only compounds the irony. For in this country, the move back toward classicism represents not a movement toward repression, as it did in the Soviet Union, but a search for greater breadth of expression than the corporate modernist style permitted.
It would have been gratifying to see some of these issues addressed in the Modern show. But let me conclude with the drawings themselves, and a few of the most compelling images. There are several extraordinary drawings here: the rendering of Griguri and Mikhail Barkhin's crisp, lithe building of 1927 for Izvestia, one of the few works of Russian avant-garde architecture that was actually built; the projects by Alexander and Viktor Vesnin and by Konstantin Melnikov for Pravda (why is it that newspapers were such eager clients of these architects?); Alexander Gegello's office for the Anglo-Russia Trading Company, which suggests the projects of Ricardo Bofill; and Vladimir Fidman, Danill Fridman and Dmitri Markov's Lenin State Public Library, a huge and spectacular ink rendering for a sleek modernist composition of floating planes and masses that, had it been built, would have been one of the major modern civic buildings of the world.
The exhibition shows us the gradual decline from ambitious works like these, most of which were done in the 1920's, to the heavier, overbearing designs of the 1930's. Classicism - called, in one wonderful phrase of officialspeak, ''critical assimilation'' - crept in, killing this architecture bit by bit, like a virus. There are a few exceptions, such as the remarkable proposal of 1934 for the Commissariat of Heavy Industry by Ivan Leonidov, a multi-towered Constructivist extravaganza that seems to foreshadow every architect from Cesar Pelli and Helmut Jahn to Kenzo Tange and Norman Foster. But in general the pieces get more and more heavy-handed, culminating in Vladimir Gelfreikh, Boris Iofan and Vladimir Shchuko's Palace of Soviets scheme of 1934, a bloated skyscraper-temple topped by a grotesque 25-story statue of Lenin, the whole thing a deadening classical pile worthy of Albert Speer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A 1926 drawing for the Electrobank Building (never built) by Ilya Golosov, on view at the Museum of Modern Art-Abstraction was purged as surely as a Stalinist enemy; The drawings tell a tale of the gradual eclipse of architectural vision by bureaucratic philistinism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS DRAFTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL STUART WREDE (69%); 



189 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES;
A Collector Of the Unusual: Korean Ceramics

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

 BODY:
Many art and antiques dealers began as collectors, exploring the offbeat areas that others overlook. This was the case of Keum Ja Kang, a Korean newspaper photographer who came to the United States in 1963 on an assignment and decided to stay. After she completed graduate studies in Far Eastern art at Columbia University in 1975, Mrs. Kang started collecting in a field then considered rarefied but which is now gaining an enthusiastic following among museum curators and collectors: Korean art and antiques.
A dealer since 1981, Mrs. Kang stocks Korean artifacts dating from the third century B.C. to the 20th century at the Kang Collection gallery, open by appointment, in Mrs. Kang's home at 250 West 90th Street in Manhattan. The gallery's selection is predominately ancient ceramic vessels, though it includes stone sculpture, painted screens and century-old chests. What is particularly appealing to today's collectors, especially of ceramics, are the prices, which are far lower than those for Chinese and Japanese objects of the same periods. 
''Right after my graduation from Columbia I began collecting like mad,'' Mrs. Kang said. ''To me the strong forms of ancient Korean earthenware pots are fascinating. There is endless variety and many animal-shaped containers. I have not seen any other pottery in the world that has so many forms. The plainness of the surfaces also attracts me. Except for some scratches and stamped designs, they are virtually undecorated.''
Mrs. Kang was initially frustrated in her search for Korean antiquities and art because neither was handled in the 1970's by most of New York's Oriental art dealers. Books on the subject were also scarce, as she discovered while doing research for her master's thesis, which focused on Korea's Three Kingdoms period, from A.D. 313 to 668, a high point in the development of the country's ceramics. Many of the robust vessels filling the shelves and table tops in Mrs. Kang's gallery were produced in this period.
Most of these were made as ceremonial works for tombs - jars the size of basketballs, bowls on pedestals with triangular cutouts in the bases. One 26-inch-tall gray stoneware piece from the Kaya Kingdom glows with red and orange patches of color and is exuberantly shaped with a narrow neck, flared mouth and pointed base. ''This would have been set in the earth to stand upright,'' Mrs. Kang explained. The price: $11,000.
The form most identified with ancient Korean ceramics - the pedestal-based bowl fired as one piece - is represented by a handsomely proportioned example from the fifth century, painted on the outside with rows of crosshatching, calligraphic loops and triangles. It sells for $2,500.
Another Kaya vessel, a 13-inch-tall gray stoneware jar, is a triumph of understated decoration, incised from its gently flared mouth to its rounded base with finely drawn horizontal and vertical lines. The surface appears to be decorated with wide bands of an apricot glaze. But, Mrs. Kang explained, ''the apricot color is mud from centuries of being buried in the earth. If you would really wash it, the color would disappear.'' Its price is $6,500.
One the earliest objects on display is an oval-shaped sand-colored clay jar, with two sturdy handles and a flared mouth. The 16-inch-tall roughly textured vessel is a relic of the early Iron Age from the third century B.C. The price is $4,500. A group of smaller pots, four to six inches tall - from the third to fifth centuries of the Kaya Kingdom and fifth and sixth centuries of the Silla Kingdom - are priced from $250 to $950.
Ceramics of this quality were hard to find when Mrs. Kang began collecting in the 1970's. The challenge spurred her to return home. ''In 1978 I said every day to my husband, 'Let's go back and live for a while in Korea,' '' she recalled. Mrs. Kang and husband, Byung Kang, an engineer, gave up their work - Mrs. Kang was then a freelance photographic retoucher - and moved with their two young sons to Seoul.
On their return to New York in 1981, Mrs. Kang was laden with the fruits of her collecting in Korea. She opened her gallery on Fifth Avenue across from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, certain that Korean art would be in demand because of the exhibition ''5,000 Years of Korean Art Treasures,'' which traveled to the Met in 1981.
Despite public interest in the exhibition, Mrs. Kang said, strong demand never materialized, although museum curators began to stop by and several bought a piece or two. (Mrs. Kang has sold ceramics to the Metropolitan Museum, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Seattle Museum, the Worcester, Mass., Art Museum and the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington.) Mrs. Kang moved to her present gallery in 1987, convinced that another exhibition, ''From the Land of Morning Calm: Korean Art at the Brooklyn Museum,'' which ran from October 1987 to January 1988, would spur collecting.
''My gallery opening was in October after the stock market collapsed,'' she said. ''For six months nobody came. But with the 1988 Olympics and Korea's economic boom, American museums began to feel they needed some pieces of Korean art.''
Mrs. Kang still buys most of her pieces in Korea, where ceramic antiquities are increasingly difficult to find. The earthenware tomb vessels she favors were discovered in the 1960's when major highways were under construction. ''Very little is left from the tombs uncovered then,'' she said.
But she is not discouraged by the dwindling supply. What does come to the market is now sought by Korean, Japanese and American collectors and museums, and prices are escalating. ''If the prices continue to go up, more pieces will come into the market,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fifth-century pedestal bowl from Korea's Kaya Kingdom (Keum Ja Kang/Kang Collection)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KOREA (PRE-1948)

SUBJECT: ART; CERAMICS AND POTTERY ANTIQUE COLLECTING (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BASKETBALL (62%); 

PERSON: KANG, KEUM JA; REIF, RITA KANG COLLECTION (96%); ART TREASURES (56%); 



190 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
One Germany, United by Dreams of Cars and Color TV's
 
The last time anyone decided to rejoin a unified German government peacefully and voluntarily was in 1935, when the Saar region held a plebiscite. Ever since, Germany's neighbors have viewed its consolidation, or expansion, with alarm. But two German economies became one last Sunday with scarcely a protest from the surrounding nations. Instead of exhibiting nationalistic pomp, East Germans flashed their West German marks. In Berlin's Alexanderplatz, fireworks, not firepower, were on display.The major parade was straight to the shops. Until a year ago, many East and West Germans were reluctant to so much as talk about unity for fear of upsetting their respective allies. True, other West Europeans are worried about a united Germany's economic might. And some East Europeans say they can't stand the sight of haughty German investors, no matter how much aid they bring. But a nation forged by Bismarck with blood and iron has been restored with the prospect of cars and color televisions for all. 
 
Lambada: Royalties at Stake
 
French and American pop-culture merchants have discovered that the Lambada is even trickier than it looks. The French society of composers decided last week that the Lambada, supposedly Brazilian, had its roots in Bolivia. The society confirmed that the brothers Gonzalo and Ulises Hermosa of Bolivia had written the original melody, ''Llorando Se Fue,'' or ''He Left Crying.'' With the addition of a new title, a groin-grinding dance and high-volume hype, it re-emerged as the song ''Lambada.'' The French bought Lambada records by the millions, and the Bolivians sued for their share of the royalties; the French press reports an out-of-court settlement. In the United States, movie makers who tried following the steps immediately tripped and dropped their audiences. ''Lambada,'' released by Warner Brothers, and ''The Forbidden Dance,'' released by Columbia Pictures, played to savage reviews and nearly empty theaters.
 
Eastern Europe, Soviet Trade
 
Eastern Europe might need every mark, dollar and pound it can get to offset the possible loss of favorable Soviet trade deals. The Group of 24 industrial nations, formed to coordinate aid to Eastern Europe, decided last week to extend help to Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, East Germany and Yugoslavia. It has already pledged $14 billion for Hungary and Poland.. But the Soviet Union plans to require payment in hard currency next year for the its energy exports to Eastern Europe. Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, estimates the cost to Eastern Europe at $10 billion to $12 billion. ''These countries are still in a very precarious position,'' he said.
 
Brazil Lowers the Barriers
 
Brazil came out last week as an unlikely friend of free trade. Zelia Cardoso de Mello, Minister of the Economy, said that computers, cars and raw materials will soon be able to enter tariff-free. Brazil has long regarded boatloads of foreign goods with the enmity most countries reserve for ships carrying hostile troops. Now, with anti-inflation plans faltering, the Government is counting on imports to keep prices down. ''It's obviously a desperation move,'' said Lance Taylor, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 
COMPANIES
A Drug to Restore Youth?
 
A drug that can bring youthful vigor to the elderly, and to some pharmaceutical stocks as well? Researchers reported last week that a genetically engineered form of human growth hormone can reverse many of the effects of aging. After six months of hormone injections, 21 men lost fat, gained muscle, augmented their kidney and heart functions and regained thicker, younger-looking skin. The hormone, naturally available only in minute quantities, is produced genetically by Eli Lilly & Company and Genentech Inc. Researchers warned that the long-term effects of the growth hormone are unknown. As for the short-term effect on investors, on Thursday they made Lilly and Genentech the only two of the 15 most active Big Board stocks to gain. Both added fractions on Friday.
 
Fidelity Takes On More
 
Fidelity Investments has reached out to grab more business from the brokerage houses. Fidelity agreed last week to sell the popular John Nuveen & Company unit investment trusts, or fixed portfolios of municipal bonds. The trusts, with sales charges averaging 4.9 percent, have usually been sold through banks and retail brokers. Fidelity is best-known as the nation's largest manager of mutual funds, most with low sales charges or none, and most sold directly to investors. But Fidelity already has its own discount brokerage and a line of mutual funds with higher sales charges that are marketed through retail brokers. For Fidelity, a competitor can also be an ally.
 
British Order for Boeing
 
British Airways P.L.C. placed an order on Friday for as many as 33 Boeing 747-400 jumbo jets, worth as much as $6.9 billion. Lord King, the British Airways chairman, said his company has the option to convert its order to even larger 747's, should Boeing build them, carrying as many as 600 passengers. Boeing says no decision has been made to introduce larger planes.
 
Forstmann's Buyouts
 
Talks like Trump, buys like Scrooge: Last week, Theodore J. Forstmann announced another buyout with no ''junk bonds.'' His firm, Forstmann, Little & Company, agreed to purchase the General Instrument Corporation, a maker of cable television equipment, for $1.6 billion. About $800 million will come from the Forstmann buyout fund, the rest from banks. In February, Forstmann bought Gulfstream Aerospace for $825 million. After nearly two years with no deals, Mr. Forstmann is apt to boast. ''We're getting back to the real money people and we're in an extremely strong position,'' he said. ''We've done the two largest deals this year.'' Not quite; the Norton Company went for $1.9 billion earlier this year. Some analysts say that Forstmann might have to make a more generous offer for General Instrument to fend off rival bids.
 
Getting the Bond Business
 
Spokesmen for New York Mayor David N. Dinkins and City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman said last week that campaign contributions have nothing to do with becoming one of the city's bond underwriters. Of the 53 who applied, the five chosen underwriters - Bear Stearns, First Boston, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Shearson Lehman - and their employees contributed a total of $233,000 to the campaigns of the city's top two officials. Some heavy contributors got none of the city's business, but the firms that won were among the largest givers. They will split millions in fees from underwriting $6 billion in bonds over the next two years.
 
In Brief
 
Mack Trucks Inc., an ailing company with a famous name, received a $100 million takeover bid from Renault of France on Friday.
 
*
 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. agreed on Friday to pay the New York Stock Exchange a record $500,000 fine in connection with its purchase of E. F. Hutton shares in 1986. Shearson admitted to no wrongdoing.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The Fed Holds Firm
 
Just when the Federal Reserve Board seemed in a summery, rate-cutting mood, out came a moderately strong employment report. An increase of 39,000 jobs in June lowered civilian unemployment one-tenth of 1 percent to 5.2 percent. And a revised figure for May raised that month's employment gains to 234,000. Robert Giordano, director of economic research at Goldman Sachs, said that the economy is not as weak as many analysts had thought. With productivity rebounding from a first-quarter slump, he said, ''You could get a fairly healthy rise'' in gross national product for the second quarter. The Fed's governing body apparently decided last week to hold rates steady for the time being, but expressed more willingness to lower them in the future. Congress and the White House have been calling for looser credit to head off a possible recession. But the employment report, said Mr. Giordano, ''all but closes the door on an easing of Fed policy this month.''
 
In Brief
 
The Bush Administration has targeted 100 savings and loans for top-priority investigations. Some are still in business.
 
*
 
The Office of Thrift Supervision wants Thomas Spiegel, the former head of the Columbia Savings and Loan Association, to repay $19 million that he is accused of turning to his personal use. Among the expenses in question: airplanes, resort condominiums, a French wine-tasting course and 55 guns.
 
*
 
The Government has decided to open to the public its enforcement proceedings against failed savings and loans, including the one involving Neil M. Bush, the President's son.
 
*
 
The White House and Congress are considering a tax on the sale of securities to help close the budget deficit and balance lower taxes on capital gains. Political opposition to the plan appears to be strong.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Celebrating the switch, an East German brandishes his new West German marks (Associated Press); The Lambada, as done in New York (Angel Franco/The New York Times); Zelia Cardoso de Mello (James Brooke/The New York Times); Theodore J. Forstmann; graph: civilian unemployment rate, Feb. 1989-June 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); chart: foreign acquisitions of European companies and their values, 1st quarter 1989-1st quarter 1990 (Source: Transinks' European Deal Review)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (96%); BOLIVIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); BULGARIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ROYALTIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); ACQUISITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); TRENDS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R THEODORE FORSTMANN (50%); 



191 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: The economic summit of industrialized nations begins in Houston. Through Wednesday. 
A 1,700-mile, 10-day race among 32 solar-powered cars begins in Orlando, Fla.
Consumer credit for May.
 
TUESDAY: Wholesale trade for May.
PC World Forum/Moscow, through Sunday.
 
WEDNESDAY: The Senate Banking Committee considers jurisdictional disputes between the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 
THURSDAY: Greyhound Lines bankruptcy hearing.
 
FRIDAY: Producer prices and retail sales for June. Auto sales for the first 10 days of July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SCHEDULE

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); SOLAR ENERGY (85%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (84%); PRODUCER PRICES (84%); FUTURES (84%); RETAIL SALES (82%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (51%); 



192 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Turning Rah! - the Fourth R - Into Summertime Profits

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

DATELINE: GREELEY, Pa.

 BODY:
There was trouble with the Low T-Straddle. Christal Kelly had gotten up there - eight feet above the ground, propped up by two fellow junior high students - but her eyes were squeezed shut.
''Open your eyes, Chris,'' another squad member, from Plains, Pa., beseeched her. ''C'mon, open them!''
''She's either going to close her eyes or hold her breath,'' another colleague sniffed. The ribbing worked. Her lashes lifted. Then she spoiled it all. She screamed. ''Now that was not necessary,'' someone sighed. In the leafy tranquillity of the Pine Forest Camp, tucked in the heart of the Poconos, 400 teen-agers (398 females, two males) from junior and senior high schools had come to be told how to do Side Hurdler jumps and Double Hooks and Hanging Stag pyramids and all those other refinements obligatory to true success as a cheerleader. 
Shaping young women (and occasionally young men) into cheerleaders, the everlasting dream of millions of teen-agers, is the business of the National Spirit Group. Headquartered in Dallas, the company runs 430 cheerleader camps a year, mostly in the summer, in every state but Rhode Island. They normally last four days, and cost $99 to $140, including room and board, which sounds tempting enough to 150,000 teen-agers a year to badger their parents until they pay.
Parents, of course, get bombarded by entreaties from a perplexing array of camps and clinics eager to teach their children something they don't already know. Instructors will patiently show them how to play golf, lose weight, ride horses, act, dance, do embroidery, sail, paint, improve their reading, play football, churn butter, work a computer or feel like an astronaut - as long as you pay the price. Thousands of instructional camps exist in the country, according to the American Camping Association, and their number and diversity is steadily expanding.
Getting into cheerleading instruction is not something you plan on. The origins of the National Spirit Group go back to 1948 and Lawrence Herkimer, a former Southern Methodist University cheerleader with a round, expressive face. Maybe the name means nothing to members of the physics club, but Mr. Herkimer did some stupendous things for cheerleading. He invented the pompon. And he devised one of cheerleading's most popular maneuvers - the inimitable Herkie Jump. The jump was conceived while Mr. Herkimer was a crack cheerleader in college during the mid-1940's, when cheerleaders were predominantly men. To execute it, you swing the right arm upward to begin your leap, and as you depart the ground, your left hand clutches your hip while the left leg is propelled out parallel to the ground and the right leg is drawn back.
When he was in college, Mr. Herkimer organized a national cheerleaders' club and published a magazine called Megaphone. After he graduated, he began teaching gymnastics and staging cheerleader clinics.
His popularity spread to such an extent that he was showing up at a school a week, doing backflips all over the place.
The development of color television got him headed toward pompon thoughts. ''I figured there had to be something more colorful on the field than a chrome stick that the cheerleaders twirled,'' he recalled one morning in his Dallas office, ''so I got the idea to put some colored paper on a stick.''
After Mr. Herkimer had been teaching cheerleaders for several years, his wife wisely reminded him that it was unlikely he would be able to do the Herkie Jump forever. He set up a company in his Dallas garage that sold kits explaining how to cut the paper to put together a pompon. Then he developed a pompon-making machine and began selling finished pompons. He had a pompon patent and a corner on the market for a long time. To this day, he sells millions of pompons a year.
Eventually, he expanded into a supply company, selling pompons, cheerleading uniforms and megaphone earrings. Demand to learn cheerleading persisted, and so he hired instructors to teach his methods at cheerleading camps. Now he also teaches drill teams and dance squads.
His company, he said, should attract $50 million in business this year. To staff the camps, he hires 500 part-time instructors a year, mainly teachers or college cheerleaders, many of them schooled at a Herkimer camp. ''We've never had a down year,'' he said. ''I feel we have a recession-proof business. If times get bad, a father would sell the boat before he would tell his daughter she can't have pompons and her cheerleader sweater.''
In 1986, Mr. Herkimer sold his company to the BSN Corporation, a sporting goods concern, which in turn sold it in June 1988 to the New York-based Prospect Group, an astonishingly diversified enterprise that owns a railroad, grows mushrooms, hunts for gold and sells Swiss Army knives. Mr. Herkimer, though, continues to run things. His operation is the largest in the business, though you can't do anything without competition today, and so there are others like the United States Cheerleader Association and the Dynamic Cheerleaders Association that compete for teen-age lungs.
Mr. Herkimer has had curious things happen to him. He once did 38 backflips to complete a commercial for Cheer detergent, sweating through five shirts before it was a wrap. He had a candy bar - the Herkie Bar - named after him that did O.K. for a few years before being dropped. He appeared on the television show, ''What's My Line,'' and he fooled everyone but Tom Poston.
Now that he's 64 years old, he mostly supervises the business. ''The backflips aren't any good anymore,'' he said, ''and the Herkie Jump, I'm sad to say, just isn't as high as it used to be.''
Jane Hodge killed a mosquito. Then she pushed the squads to swing their arms more vigorously. Ms. Hodge was the chief instructor for the Pine Forest class. She was demonstrating the ''whip'' approach to initiating a cheerleader jump, during which one swung one's arm briskly down and through. If the whip baffles you, there are other approaches like the ''punch'' and the ''dip.'' The ''dip'' requires strong abdominal muscles and could quickly convince you to perfect the whip.
Her face pale and piquant, a lanky high school freshman went up into the air in an attempted toe touch. The toes, alas, remained untouched. ''Get the feet higher,'' she was told. ''Kick them up.'' Jump class wound down in a mass of sore muscles. Without pause, partner stunt class commenced. Teen-agers in prodigious numbers practiced the Double Thigh Stand and the Low T-Straddle and the Hanging Stag out on the grass, riotous with weeds. Some squad members became ''climbers'' who had to go up in the air; others were ''bases'' who stayed on the ground and supported weight. Most preferred life as a base. ''Get up there?'' one mentioned. ''I would just die. I was born to be a base.''
Bernadette Kosek, an instructor fresh out of Penn State, sized up her squads, assembled on the tennis courts. ''Now don't let her get too far forward, or she'll eat the cement,'' she said. The exhortation was directed at a squad doing a Hanging Stag.
''Some take right to this,'' she said. ''Others have never taken a step on somebody in their lives.''
After a half-hour of lurching bodies, cheer class began. ''Hey fans. Hey fans. Yell blue.'' ''Red. White. Bears win tonight.'' ''Sink it. Sink it. Slam it through for two.'' Much sound was being created. Wherever you were, within miles of the camp, even with ears stuffed with pillows, you heard them. They were told to have pliant wrists, to have loud, clear speech, unhesitating.
Roaming about the perimeter of the squads, fighting deafness, was Jerry Preschutti, the assistant principal at Mid Valley High School in Troop, Pa., and the camp director. The vast majority of National Spirit's camps are operated by the company, which typically rents idle college campuses and ships a part-time manager to the site to direct things. Mr. Preschutti, though, operates the Pine Forest camp himself, leasing the site from the owners. He runs six courses a year, charging $99 per cheerleader, $24 of which goes to National Spirit. Mr. Preschutti is responsible for the housing and food, while National Spirit supplies the instructors and curriculum.
''This is my 21st year,'' Mr. Preschutti said. ''Some of the girls come with a lot of instruction. Some come with nothing. But, believe me, they all leave with something.''
It was lecture time. Everyone squatted down on the tennis courts and listened raptly as the instructors counseled the attendees on appropriate sideline strategy. It was hard to fault the advice:
* ''Don't chew gum. No one wants to see the gum get stuck in your hair so you go all game trying to pick it out.''
* ''No winking at your boyfriend during the game, or yelling, 'Hey, mom, when are you picking me up after the game?' ''
* ''When an opposing player is hurt on the field, don't say, 'O.K., we got him good.' When he gets up, you clap even if he's the star quarterback of your archrival.''
Evenings were reserved for evaluations. Squads chose a cheer and a sideline chant and performed before an instructor. Devoid of coaching, the squads grew calm and possessed of powers. They cheered. They chanted.
No evaluations were too harsh, for the instructors did not wish to spread penitential gloom. As Mr. Preschutti summed it up: ''You can't be too negative with cheerleading. It's not right.''
What was this bug about cheerleading that attracted the lust of young women?
Amy Shappell, 17, from Kennett High School in Kennett Square, Pa., could say. ''When I was in third grade, all the older and prettier and more popular girls were cheerleaders,'' she said dreamily. ''So I wanted to be like them.''
Distilled to its essence, cheerleading was attestable power. Or could be. It was also ridicule from female classmates. After all, the stereotype of the cheerleader has long been uncheering. As Louise Milewski, the adviser from West Chester (Pa.) East High School put it: ''They have been thought of as flakes. Empty-headed. Rah-rahs.'' Or as Deb Hirsch, the coach from Upper Dauphin (Pa.) High School, added: ''Airheads who can't do anything but giggle.''
A lot of squads try to do extra nice things to win respect. The Kennett students go around and paint houses for those who can't afford real house painters. The Upper Dauphin squad challenged the football team to do aerobics with the cheerleaders to demonstrate their prowess. ''You know what?'' Ms. Hirsch said. ''The players dropped.'' Under evil skies on the fourth day, the cheering was over, and the instructors doled out a string of awards to the bedraggled cheerleaders. School buses pulled up to return the squads to a quieter world. Some of the teen-agers would still require divine intervention to become stellar cheerleaders, but all of them gave off a vibration of utter merriment. Bad jumps had receded into the mists. Gilded memories remained.
Karen Lee from Cherry Hill (N.J.) High School West gave a big wave and said, ''Like, too much!''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernadette Kosek leads an advanced class at the Greeley, Pa., camp (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times); Dawn Edras of Chester, Pa., shows off war paint. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VBR (AMEX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (75%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (71%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: VARSITY BRANDS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SPIRIT GROUP

SUBJECT: CHEERLEADERS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHEERLEADING (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CAMPING (74%); CHILDREN (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); GOLF (64%); MAMMALS (50%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R LAWRENCE HERKIMER (91%); 



193 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
Rehabilitating the Image of the Two-Stroke Engine

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
When the Berlin wall opened last fall, one recurring image of a society where technology had stood still for 40 years was the little East German Trabant automobile, with its noisy two-stroke engine spewing pollutants and fumes. Westerners are more accustomed to two-strokes in lawnmowers than in cars.
But if two-stroke engines seem like yesterday's technology, they may also be tomorrow's. Limited in appeal for decades because of high emissions, poor gas mileage and a rough idle that prompted the nickname ''corn popper,'' two-strokes also have inherent advantages of light weight, small size and simplicity. This has prompted nearly every major automobile manufacturer to look at them anew. 
At recent car shows, the General Motors Corporation displayed a sleek sports car and Toyota a luxury coupe equipped with prototype two-stroke engines.
Both manufacturers say cars with such motors could be in production by 1995. Automobile engineers say advances in electronics and fuel-injection systems have made possible smooth-running, powerful two-stroke engines that meet current and anticipated emission-control requirements.
''We're interested because the fundamentals are just so good,'' said Donald Runkle, General Motors' vice president of advanced engineering. Two-stroke ''engines are lightweight and they're small so the horsepower per pound and the horsepower per size are excellent,'' he said.
Two-stroke engines differ fundamentally from the four-strokes in most cars in that they develop power once for every two strokes of the piston - up and down. That equals once for every complete revolution of the engine crankshaft.
Four-stroke engines require two complete turns of the crankshaft - two up and two down strokes of the piston - to develop power from each cylinder. A three-cylinder two-stroke has the same firing frequency as a six-cylinder four-stroke.
Typical two-strokes also have far fewer moving parts. Four-stroke engines have one or two intake valves to let gas and air into the cylinder, plus one or two exhaust valves to let exhaust out, which must be carefully timed, requiring a complex system of camshafts driven by chains or belts. In a two-stroke, the motion of the piston itself uncovers an intake port and an exhaust port, simultaneously letting air and fuel in and the exhaust out.
The problem with this arrangement is that a lot of unburned and partially burned fuel is left in the exhaust, giving two-strokes a level of hydrocarbon emissions about 100 times that of a comparably sized four-stroke engine. That statistic alone spelled the death of two-stroke automobiles, at least in the United States, over 20 years ago. Sweden's Saab sold a small two-stroke engine car here until 1968, the same year emissions control laws went into effect.
To overcome emissions problems, General Motors' new engine uses fuel-injection technology developed by Ralph Sarich, an Australian inventor and founder of the Orbital Engine Company of Perth. Mr. Sarich's design, also licensed by Ford, improves on typical fuel injection, which squirts liquid fuel into the intake manifold by blasting the fuel directly into the cylinder with compressed air.
The air helps vaporize the fuel quickly, prompting more complete burning, while electronic control of the injection and spark allowsvery precise timing of fuel delivery and firing of the piston. By injecting the fuel after the exhaust ports have closed, the General Motors engine avoids passing unburned gasoline out with the exhaust.
Many modern two-stroke engines use some kind of blower, like a turbocharger, to force out exhaust gases, but the General Motors' design relies on pressures created in the engine's crankcase, a simpler approach.
''We're looking for the elegant solution - no valves, no turbocharger,'' said Mr. Runkle. The three-cylinder engine has a displacement of 1.5 liters, weighs just 165 pounds and develops 110 horsepower.
General Motors' engine needs further development to establish its reliability, but already, automotive engineers are enthusiastic about the design's potential. Because the engine is so much smaller than a four-stroke of comparable power, a car's engine compartment could be smaller too, reducing aerodynamic drag. With reduced weight, power steering would be unnecessary, providing further gains in efficiency.
''If you could propagate the size and weight savings throughout the vehicle, there might be in excess of a 20 percent fuel economy gain,'' said David E. Cole, director of the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan. ''It's a carrot of considerable magnitude.'' he said.
Where General Motors has opted for the ultimate in simplicity, Toyota has taken a far different approach. Toyota's six-cylinder two-stroke engine also uses direct fuel injection, but it uses double overhead camshafts and four valves per cylinder, as in the four-stroke Supra or Cressida engines, which it closely resembles. A supercharger forces pressurized air through the intake valves to blow spent exhaust gases out of the cylinder.
While this engine is no lighter or less complex than its four-stroke brethren, it does offer the advantage of smoother running - a two-stroke six-cylinder engine is as smooth as a four-stroke 12-cylinder engine - as well as greater power and torque at lower engine speeds. Toyota also claims conventional valves - called poppet valves - and supercharging allow a cleaner running engine.
''The use of poppet valves gives us unusually precise control over the combustion sequence; it keeps the mixture in the combustion chamber longer and allows us to burn it more completely,'' said Michael Michels, product news manager for Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Toyota believes the engine's low-r.p.m. power and inherent smoothness lend themselves to luxury car applications, and is currently testing it in a Soarer, a large two-door coupe not sold in the United States. Automotive journalists have been impressed. ''It was everything they claimed,'' said Dennis Simanaitis, engineering editor of Road & Track, after driving the two-stroke equipped Soarer in Japan. ''The engine has a lot of bottom-end torque, a lot of power,'' he said. ''It was quite smooth; it did not have the popcorn sound of the old Saab,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An experimental G.M. car with a two-stroke engine (General Motors Corporation); diagram: how to make two-stroke engines burn cleanly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAAB.B (STO) (60%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (60%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (88%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (83%); SAAB AB (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ENGINES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS EMISSIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 



194 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Our Disastrously Archaic Farm Policy

BYLINE: By JAMES BOVARD; James Bovard, associate policy analyst at the Cato Institute in Washington, is author of ''The Farm Fiasco.''

 BODY:
Our 60-year farm-policy civil war is increasingly devastating to American competitiveness. The Department of Agriculture will reward farmers for keeping idle almost 60 million acres this year - equivalent to shutting down all the crop land in California, Colorado, Kentucky, Louisiana, Montana and Wisconsin. Paying farmers not to work has become the foundation of American farm policy. 
In 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt sought to solve the farm emergency by paying farmers to slaughter their pigs, plow their cotton under and reduce their plantings. Paying farmers to reduce their plantings was a temporary, ''emergency'' measure that became institutionalized because politicans and bureaucrats could not think of any better way to control farmers. In 30 of the last 34 years, the Department of Agriculture has tried to balance supply and demand by rewarding farmers not to grow on their land - through set-asides or acreage reduction programs.
Set-asides are a political response to what Washington perceives as ''excess capacity'' - too many acres producing a given crop. Yet, a 1988 Department of Agriculture study by Dan Dvoskin concluded that excess capacity exists for commodities which have traditionally been given the most subsidies. Subsidized crops have four times as much excess capacity as unsubsidized crops.
Set-asides have become a drag on farmers. The Agricultural Policy Working Group, a private research institute in Washington, estimates that set-asides, by forcing farmers to leave good land unplanted, increase the average cost of production for a bushel of corn by 33 cents. Since the variable cost of production in the most efficient corn-growing areas is only $1.25, this has a big impact on American competitiveness. A recent Department of Agriculture study concluded that acreage reduction programs alone have added about 7 percent to farm land values. But Government cannot drive up land values without increasing farmers' costs, and thus decreasing competitiveness.
Set-asides presume that the United States is the Saudi Arabia of wheat and feed grains - and that we can cut back our production, drive up prices and increase our profits. If nobody else in the world had any farm land, this policy might make sense. But, in recent years, while Uncle Sam has bled taxpayers to bribe farmers not to work, foreigners have planted fence row-to-fence row and are taking over world markets. The European Community has boosted its wheat exports by 40 percent since 1985, while the United States has had almost no gain.
Set-asides are intended to drive crop prices higher than they would be otherwise. Yet, at the same time, farms have been shut down to drive up crop prices, the United States has also spent billions of dollars since 1985 on export subsidies to make American crops cheaper overseas. Export subsidies are the antidote to set-asides and other Federal programs making American crops uncompetitive on world markets.
Every acre of Government set-aside land is an indictment of the failure of Federal planning. It means that Government attracted too much capital to agriculture. Permanent set-asides mean Government perpetually attracts too much capital to agriculture, and then, instead of allowing a natural adjustment and the capital to flow out, perpetually intervenes to keep some of that capital idle.
Paying farmers not to work is economic insanity. It is easier for politicans to shut down American agriculture than to straighten out the tangle of self-defeating Federal farm policies. The sooner we abolish our tangled farm programs, the more competitive American agriculture will be.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Bovard (Marty Katz for The New York Times); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (50%); RECENT DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (87%); EXPORT PROMOTION (87%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); CORN FARMING (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); 

PERSON: BOVARD, JAMES



195 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
The Dollar's Down Again

 BODY:
For those planning a trip to England this summer, the news in recent weeks has not been so good. Since the beginning of June, the pound has risen by 10.5 cents, to $1.7865, from $1.6810. This is a 6 percent increase - or, put another way, a 6 percent cut in the budget for American travelers. And four cents of the pound's rise came in the last week. John Major, Chancellor of the Exchequer, aided the rally with a speech in the House of Commons. The Chancellor said interest rates in Britain would have to remain high because of the continued rapid growth in loans, which spur spending and aggravate inflation. Meanwhile, for those Americans who are going to Germany, the news has been only half as bad, with the dollar falling 2.8 percent since June 1. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	151.70	152.20	139.20	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6520	1.6610	1.8850	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1617	1.1633	1.1908	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.7865	1.7490	1.6313	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$360.20	$357.50	$362.00	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); HOUSE OF COMMONS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; EUROPE

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM BRITISH POUND (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (63%); 



196 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
A Sin Tax On the Sale Of Stocks?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Are stockbrokers to be treated like liquor store owners, with the Government making more money than the businessman every time a sale is made?
That, to many frightened Wall Street executives, is the scariest part of the rumored transfer tax on the sale of securities, which would be set at five-tenths of 1 percent of the value of the stock or other security.
On a $50 share of stock, the tax would be 25 cents each time it was sold. That may not sound like much, but the broker's commission on an institutional trade is likely to be in the range of 5 cents a share. So the tax would give the Government five times as much money as the broker. 
That is the kind of treatment the Government normally reserves for transactions of which it strongly disapproves, but has despaired of stopping. Liquor and cigarettes are high on the list of such commodities, but brokers would like to think their functions - raising capital for enterprises and keeping New York a leading financial center - are thought better of in Washington.
Such a tax would change the way Wall Street operates. There would likely be less liquidity in the market, as fewer investors would be willing to make quick trades. Many complicated investment strategies, which rely on quick trades in several related markets, might become prohibitively expensive. For that reason, advocates may promote the tax as a way to return to the good old days, before futures and options and program trading.
No doubt some trades would move offshore. Others would simply not be done, and the brokerage industry, already choking with excess capacity, would be likely to see more layoffs, consolidations and bankruptcies. With fewer people willing to trade, volatility could increase, and it is possible that money would be siphoned into other investments, such as bank deposits, instead of stocks and bonds.
Whether the threat of the tax is real or not is an open question. But the securities industry is taking it very seriously. Thursday's Wall Street Journal report that the tax was a live possibility stalled a stock market rally, although for the week the Dow Jones industrial average still rose 24.26 points, to 2,904.95. The Dow was aided by a Friday rebound that sent blue-chip stocks up on the slowest trading day of the year, despite a rise in interest rates that helped drive the Dow utilities average to its lowest level in two months.
In opposing the tax, some on Wall Street are warning that Thursday's 32.42-point Dow drop was just the start, unless the idea is quickly dropped. ''I can't believe that Congress would do that and take the very high risk of a new break in the stock market,'' said James Jones, the chairman of the American Stock Exchange.
Many countries have similar taxes, although the trend has been to eliminate or reduce them. Those taxes have often driven business to other countries, but it is less clear that they have depressed prices. But Mr. Jones, a former House Budget Committee chairman, understands what plays in Washington, and his comment may have set the tone for a bitter fight.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: the Dow, July 3-6, 1990; composite index of manufacturing performance, Feb. -June 1990; Conference Board consumer confidence index, Feb. - June 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EXCISE TAX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); FUTURES (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); COMMISSION PAY (73%); TRENDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES L JONES (50%); 



197 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Birth Pains;
Now Playing on the World Stage: The Taming of the New

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
THIS is an extraordinary summer in international affairs, a summer when the leaders of the West are trying to keep the mighty steed of change from galloping away from them, trying to tame it and guide it.
Almost every week, some group of senior statesmen meets somewhere to grapple with the opportunities, the complexities and the dangers - for all three have arisen at once - created by the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe, the turbulence in the Soviet Union and the reunification of Germany.
This weekend a traveling phalanx of politicians and experts and journalists is making its way from London to Houston, from a summit meeting of the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization to a summit meeting of the seven most powerful industrial nations, known as the G-7, from discussions of how to assure the Soviet Union of the alliance's peaceful intentions to discussions of how to shore up the rapidly disintegrating Soviet economy.
To a surprising degree, the conference in Europe that ended on Friday and the one in Texas that starts tomorrow have come to focus on the same short-term and long-term goals. 
Short: How to persuade President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union to drop his opposition to membership in NATO for a reunited Germany, thus removing the last significant roadblock to the creation of a new state at the heart of Europe through the anticipated holding of all-German elections on Dec. 2? That would constitute by far the most signifcant step yet taken in building the new architecture of Europe.
Long: How to adapt the network of systems and institutions built up since the war, in the military and political and economic fields, to the brave new world represented by a much more integrated Europe, stretching well beyond the Vistula if not yet to the Urals, where the threat of nuclear holocaust has receded if not yet disappeared?
President Bush, whose blueprint the NATO meeting followed closely, was delighted with the results here; indeed, he told two of his close aides afterward that he was optimistic that President Gorbachev would see the actions taken by the alliance as a guarantee that, in the words if the communique, ''the alliance will do its share to overcome the legacy of decades of suspicion'' between East and West. In Moscow, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, was enthusiastic, saying the NATO actions ''pave the way to a safe future'' for Europe.
The blueprint had been cleared in advance with West Germany, still another sign of the fact that the true trans-Atlantic ''special relationship'' these days links Washington and Bonn, not Washington and London, as before, and the stolid Chancellor Kohl praised Mr. Bush in terms bordering on exuberance.
By the conclusion of the talks, there was a sackful of symbols, each designed to make it that little bit easier for Mr. Gorbachev to say ''yes'' to Germany on NATO: an invitation to speak to an alliance meeting, a commitment to speed the removal of nuclear artillery shells, a promise of non-aggression pacts, a subtle shift in the wording of NATO nuclear strategy - this last important enough for President Francois Mitterrand of France and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Great Britain to resist it - and a commitment to thin out the ''forward defense'' maintained for decades by the allies.
Perhaps most important was yet another gesture by Chancellor Kohl, who has driven the process forward for months and did not slow down in London. He agreed to come to grips almost at once with one of the questions that worries Moscow most, for obvious historical and geopolitical reasons: a limit on the size of the new German armed forces. ''Such a declaration is an indispensable signpost on the road to German unity,'' Mr. Kohl said, and those traveling with him said the agreed cap might be as low as 300,000 troops, which would represent a large cut from the current West German level of more than 400,000.
Mr. Gorbachev had appealed, in a letter to Mrs. Thatcher delivered on the eve of the conference, for just that kind of reassurance on security questions, and he appealed, in a letter to Mr. Bush delivered as the President prepared to leave for Houston, for similar gestures on the economy.
Those will prove harder for the West to deliver, as Mr. Kohl acknowledged in a background talk with German journalists. He has proposed an aid program for Mr. Gorbachev that could amount to as much as $50 billion, but he said he knew it wouldn't emerge from Houston as an agreed-upon plan because of American, British, Canadian and Japanese opposition.
Mr. Bush made a big thing at his news conference about opposing direct aid now, arguing that too much of Soviet spending still goes to the military, insisting that broad economic reforms are needed and suggesting that Soviet aid for Cuba made it hard for him to send help without arousing the ire of the right wing of his own party.
 
'Their Money, Not Ours'
But the President also said that what Germany did was its business and commented that a breach in the alliance on this issue ''doesn't concern me one little bit.''
Indeed, as one of Mr. Bush's closest aides readily conceded, it is very much in the interest of the United States, as well as in the interest of Germany, if Mr. Kohl is able to ''buy'' Soviet approval for unification, ''as long as it's their idea, not ours, and it's their money, not ours.''
''Could be the biggest leveraged buyout ever,'' the aide said.
For its part, the United States may agree this week to send more technical assistance and other aid to the Soviet Union. So may Britain and others. But in the long run, diplomats said, it will be Germany, possibly with the help of France, that will make the outright grants.
So the implicit ''deal'' on Germany may be emerging from this month's deliberations, much as everyone shies away from that word: a security package that Mr. Gorbachev can sell as a demonstration that his retreat from eastern Europe has enhanced rather than dimished Soviet interests, and an economic package that enables him to temporarily relieve the domestic political pressure - all in exchange for Moscow's approval of German reunification once the party congress ends.
Even if that comes to pass - and it is still a hope or at best a calculation, not a fact - the larger institutional questions will remain.
Such as: If NATO, of which the Soviet Union is not and will not become a member, is to be the main security organization in post-post-war Europe, won't the Soviets feel isolated, as the Germans did after World War II? If, on the other hand, that role passes eventually to the 35-member Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, will the conference not become a mere talking shop, as powerless and unfocused as the League of Nations?
Such as: How long will the Germans tolerate nuclear weapons of any kind on their soil, let alone the new generation of which Mrs. Thatcher speaks so constantly? For that matter, how long will they want large numbers of foreign troops in their nation?
For all the NATO allies, the broad tasks ahead include fostering democracy in the former satellite countries of eastern Europe, keeping the United States engaged in Europe, building new bridges to the Soviet Union, trying to avert a descent into chaos there, continuing to promote western European unity, all at once, with few precedents to fall back on. Not the work of two summit conferences or a single summer or a year.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOUNTAINS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 



198 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Beyond Plain Vanilla: Immigration Has Accentuated Canada's Diversity

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

 BODY:
As the historical story goes, when Jacques Cartier, the French explorer, stepped ashore in 1535 at the rapids near what was to become Quebec City, he confronted a band of curious natives. Looking around at the pristine countryside, he asked them in French and sign language what they called that place. The Indians, looking about their humble village, replied ''kanata.'' It is the Huron-Iroquois word for ''settlement.''
Thus conceived in bilingual misunderstanding did the world's second-largest country get its name, Canada. There have been many such ''kanatas'' in Canada's history. The French-English split, highlighted by the failure last month of the Meech Lake accord, an attempt to draw Quebec into accepting the country's eight-year-old constitution by acknowledging the French province as a ''distinct society,'' is but the most dramatic. 
Although from the outside its image is that of a vat of vanilla yogurt, Canada in fact has always consisted of many disparate pieces sprawling over a country so immense that its southernmost tip in Ontario is actually closer to the Equator than to the top of Canada.
This geography, harsh climate, different languages and divergent cultures often make that land seem less like a single nation and more like a conservative collection of feuding fiefdoms. Quebec has its own vibrant culture and celebrities who are virtually unknown next door in Ontario and vice versa. Canada's politically under-represented West resents the economic dominance of central Canada, which is jealous of the West's oil and gas. Every region tells ethnic jokes about the residents of Newfoundland, Canada's newest province, where they refer to people from other provinces disparagingly as C.F.A.'s (Come From Aways).
 
Recruited Immigrants
Centrifugal forces are always at work in Canada, which was settled not by waves of immigrants moving inexorably from sea to sea, but by many ethnic groups recruited overseas to settle in particular places where the young country needed more people. Though efficient, this method did not create a population with a broad sense of the land. Canada's immigration laws help perpetuate these ethnic population pockets and identities by creating a special status called Landed Immigrant, which allows newcomers to become Canadian while keeping their old nationality.
Even native Canadians work to isolate themselves; the Indians and Inuit of the vast Northwest Territories plan to divide that 40 percent of Canada's geographic mass along racial lines into two pieces.
From the beginning, each segment looked out for its own. In 1867, under the threat of expansion by the United States, Britain finally persuaded Canada's disparate regions to become a single country. As the price of its assent, British Columbia insisted on a rail line to connect it with the rest of the vast new nation.
Even now, each group is striving to be heard. The required ratification of the Meech Lake accord by the 10 provincial legislatures was blocked not by an English- or French-speaker but by the filibuster of Elijah Harper, a Cree Indian in the Manitoba Legislative Assembly who wanted distinct recognition for native peoples.
 
Recognizing Everyone
Also awaiting special recognition were Canada's feminists, not to mention groups representing the mushrooming ranks of Canada's newer immigrants from Commonwealth lands in Africa, the Caribbean, Hong Kong and East Asia. Today, nearly half the children in Vancouver's school system have English as a second language. The city of Toronto, Canada's largest, routinely sends out property tax notices in six languages - English, French, Chinese, Italian, Greek and Portuguese.
But many Canadians now see a fraying of traditional civility into the kind of outspoken divisiveness that has characterized the mixed records of other bilingual countries. There has been vocal resentment in some areas over the impact of rich Chinese fleeing Hong Kong, bidding up Canadian real estate prices, replacing traditional bungalows with mansions seen as ostentatious by neighbors. Shouting matches and racial slurs erupted in Calgary recently over a school board decision to allow teen-age Sikh boys to wear their ceremonial daggers in school when other youths were not allowed even pocket knives. Earlier, the Federal Government decided that Sikhs who become Mounties can wear their turbans instead of the traditional trooper hat. Even though the number of such Sikhs may one day be counted on one hand, it was the kind of ''foreign'' symbol that now arouses some Canadians to raise their voice.
Quebec has always taken the lead in separatist actions. The province's move in late 1988, in open defiance of a Supreme Court decision, to outlaw any outdoor English signs while continuing to demand special protections for French-speakers offended even many liberal Canadians elsewhere. It seemed to violate the unwritten agreement that Quebec's minority English community would be protected. As one result, nearly 100 communities outside the province passed resolutions declaring themselves English only, a meaningless move since few had many French residents anyway.
Then there are the political divisions. Newfoundland, the other stumbling block to Meech Lake's ratification, is governed by Premier Clyde Wells, a close confidante of Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the former Liberal prime minister who has long opposed the accord.
Jean Chretien, the newly elected leader of the opposition Liberals, calls Canada's current mood ''a growing distemper.''
''The world,'' he warns, ''has known other serene communities that have come apart from internal tensions.''
There is evidence, too, that while the specter of Quebec's separation struck terror into the hearts of most Canadians before the defeat of a provincial referendum on the issue 10 years ago, the prospect of Canada and Quebec falling out of love now draws fatalistic shrugs.
''It is,'' Peter C. Newman, an author and nationalist, said sadly, ''as if Quebec is growing out of Canada and the rest of the country says, 'Enough already with your constant demands for special this and special that.' ''
The political price of all this unrest is likely to be steep for Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. He treated the high-pressure, high-stakes Meech Lake talks like the former labor negotiator he is, relying on last-minute concessions that did not come. And the three-year Meech Lake process allowed too much time for an initial consensus to erode. Mr. Newman likened it to 10 co-workers who agree to lunch together and then schedule an hour's debate on where to go.
''Nothing in life is unanimous,'' he said, ''especially in Canada.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Toronto: Sikhs at a religious festival; above, a Chinatown street sign. (Dennis Robinson/The Globe and Mail); Chart showing where Canada's Immigrants are coming from; Chart showing Immigrants as a proportion of population in Canada. (Source: Statistics Canada; 1886 Census of Canada)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (91%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); EQUATOR (70%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (58%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARTIER SA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES IMMIGRATION (89%); ETHNICITY (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (87%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (86%); HISTORY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM, ANDREW H



199 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Even an Earthquake May Not Be Enough to Pry Open Iran

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
WHEN the earth trembled in late June and swallowed part of northwestern Iran, the world responded quickly.
Iran may have isolated itself diplomatically for the last decade, but here were hundreds of thousands of souls in need of doctors, food, housing, solace and, all too often, burial. The world wasted little time offering a helping hand.
But it did not take long before raw political considerations took over: Who should get the assistance? Who should be allowed to provide it? How much aid would be accepted, and what kind? Even as Iranian officials recorded earthquake tolls of epic dimensions - 40,000 dead, 60,000 injured, 500,000 homeless - it was clear that the disaster had become one of the more important diplomatic events in the Persian Gulf since the 1988 cease-fire in the Iran-Iraq war. 
For Iran's president, Hashemi Rafsanjani, the earthquake was an opportunity to extend his policy of opening doors to the West. Demonstrating his political primacy, he prevailed over hard-line Islamic radicals who had inveighed against accepting so much as a bandage from foreigners, especially the Great Satan itself, the United States.
By the same token, overseas aid donors were well aware that they had a rare chance to peel away a diplomatic veil from Iran. As one European diplomat in Teheran put it, ''we would all be foolish not to act on this.''
It was an interesting display of political theater. Here was Iran, already struggling economically after the war with Iraq, looking for foreign investors, requiring outside help to rebuild battered cities and towns, and now knocked for a loop by nature. Yet Mr. Rafsanjani, while needy, was not about to go forth as a supplicant. Instead, he presented himself as magnanimous in his willingness to accept foreign assistance - a leader so reasonable that he would deal with any country except Israel and South Africa.
Whether Iran's foreign relations genuinely change remains to be seen. Officials in Teheran acted quickly to dampen speculation that dealings with the United States were about to improve dramatically or that Iran would intervene to win freedom for remaining American hostages in Lebanon. In fact, one Iranian official seized upon the United States Government's slender contribution to the earthquake relief effort -$295,000 - as proof of Washington's insincerity.
Still, the Iranian situation was benign compared with other times relief has been used as a political tool. The famine in Ethiopia is an example of a much more vicious pattern. Many of the emergency food supplies have been blocked because of Government bombings of Massawa, a key port that had fallen to Eritrean insurgents. The Eritrean People's Liberation Front offered to withdraw its forces from Massawa and allow relief workers to move about freely if the Government promised not to attack any more. But until he yielded recently to United States and Soviet diplomatic pressure by promising to stop the bombing, President Mengistu Haile Mariam took the position that help for his starving people counted less than the battle against his enemies. Now that he has relented, it is the insurgents' turn to play politics with aid. There are reports that they prefer that no food comes into the country because relief supplies could benefit the Government.
Developed countries, too, are hardly immune from charges of favoritism and corruption in distributing disaster assistance. In Italy, investigations continue into the distribution of an estimated $50 billion in reconstruction money that poured into Irpinia, a region southeast of Naples, where a 1980 earthquake killed more than 2,700 people and devastated dozens of villages. If even a fraction of the allegations are accurate, billions of dollars fell off the truck as the money came in from Rome, and earthquake victims ended up as minor shareholders in the public largesse.
Corruption also played a role after a 1972 earthquake killed 10,000 people in Nicaragua. Gen. Anastasio Somoza Debayle declared himself in charge of the emergency committee distributing the millions in humanitarian aid that poured in. The outrage in the middle class and private sector over the diversion of much of the aid helped fuel the revolt that ended in the rise of the Sandinistas and the overthrow of General Somoza.
But Iran has solid experience with disaster relief after nearly a decade of war and centuries of enduring in one of the world's most violent seismic zones. Foreign crews, saying that the medical emergency was limited and that aid distribution seemed orderly, folded their tents early and went home.
That suited Iranian leaders just fine. All along, they made it clear that they wanted only material from overseas, not people who might start poking around into sensitive areas.
In the end, political considerations touched almost every detail of the relief operation, down to expressions of thanks. Last week, Mr. Rafsanjani sent messages to 98 governments and agencies that had provided help. Conspicuously missing were three countries at the top of any Iranian fundamentalist's hate list - Iraq, Saudi Arabia and, of course, the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese rescue worker in Iran helping in earthquake relief effort. (Jana Schneider/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ERITREA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (88%); ETHIOPIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FAMINE (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); EARTHQUAKES (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); 



200 of 783 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: The World;
On Tokyo's International Shopping List: More Clout

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
ONLY a year ago the 1990's seemed bound to be the age of Japanese influence, as the biggest Pacific power approached the Pacific Century.
Japan's coffers were overflowing and its leaders were beginning to focus on how to turn economic power into international clout.
In Asia that age is already arriving, as Japanese industry and the policies that support it in Tokyo emerge as the single most important factor in the growth of countries like Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. But the reverse alchemy that was expected to turn gold into political glitter elsewhere around the globe has yet to work. 
In fact, as Japan joins its Western allies in an economic summit meeting in Houston that is to be devoted largely to changes in Europe and the Soviet Union, it is discovering that differences in its agenda and the West's are becoming more difficult to paper over. In recent weeks, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu and other political leaders have hinted that Japan may edge out on its own in dealings with China and the Soviet Union. But, as always, the Japanese are reluctant to openly split with the United States, which may no longer dominate the world of cars and ships but remains Tokyo's political mentor.
This hesitation by Japan is rooted in a growing awareness that its economic strength masks some critical political weaknesses that still cripple its ability to develop a foreign policy that can venture beyond Asia.
The problem is hardly a shortage of money or willingness to commit large sums to foreign aid; rather, it is a question of direction and vision. In Eastern Europe the Japanese admit they have remained largely on the sidelines, as lost as an American business executive arriving connection-less in Tokyo. And though Japan wants a larger regional role in Asian politics - and started by playing host to talks over Cambodia a month ago -memories of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere rarely fail to come up in conversation.
Complicating the matter is a sudden and somewhat sharp difference of opinion with some Western allies on how to handle the Soviet Union and China. As West Germany advocates economic aid to prop up the Soviet economy, Japan is making it clear that Gorby-mania will have to be financed from elsewhere until Moscow moves to resolve a 45-year-old argument over who owns four Northern Islands between Hokkaido and Sakhalin that Japan claims were illegally wrested from it in the closing days of World War II. ''We have to make it abundantly clear that for Japan it will not be possible'' to provide economic aid to help perestroika, Mr. Kaifu said in an interview here on Friday as he prepared for the meeting of the seven major industrialized nations in Houston that begins tomorrow.
In China, Japan has the reverse problem. Sanctions imposed at last year's Group of Seven meeting remain against Beijing, freezing a $5 billion aid package promised by Japan two years ago. Japan went along with the post-Tiananmen Square sanctions when it seemed that they would last only a few months; now its leadership is growing increasingly worried that relations are stagnating and that continuing policies that isolate China invite economic disaster and perhaps an explosive political result. With China pressing Tokyo for a quick resumption of aid, something that Japanese businesses with interests there strongly support, Mr. Kaifu's Government is building a case for becoming the first to reopen the spigot. It will be the first test of whether Japan feels as confident moving on its own in Asian diplomacy as it does in Asian business, where executives revel in the fact that American and European competitors are so preoccupied with Europe that they have left some of the world's most booming markets in Japanese hands.
But Japan is still loath to set off on its own, at least openly. And therein lies the Japanese difficulty: a desire to be something more than the world's piggy bank, but a deep confusion about how to chart its own course.
''There is this perception gap,'' a senior official in Japan's foreign ministry said a few days ago, talking about the widespread assumption that Japan's ability to send both foreign aid and its industrial hordes translates into immediate influence. ''In the long term, we are very aware of our financial power, and what that will bring us. But in the short term, it does not work to our advantage.'' The reasons are several, a mix of political confusion at home and a fear of provoking resentments abroad. The most important is that Japan's foreign policy goals are almost never a matter of broad political debate. Japan remains so preoccupied with domestic issues, the economist Naoki Tanaka complained in a recent article in the magazine Gekkan Asahi, that ''there has been little discussion of how the world's biggest creditor should behave.''
Others say Japan is not uninterested, merely confused. Seen from Asia, the world looks very different than it does from the European border. Japanese military experts never miss a chance to point out that disarmament has yet to begin in the Pacific. The result is a paralyzed Japanese defense policy. As the argument rages over whether the Soviet Union remains the main threat to Japanese security, the country has virtually suspended consideration of its five-year defense plan, unable to decide how to justify the rapid, American-inspired growth of its military budgets.
The issue will become more acute as the Pentagon begins to cut troop levels in Japan and Korea, and faces the prospect that it may be forced to abandon its bases in the Philippines. Japan has made it clear that it has no intention of lifting the 1,000-mile limit that keeps its forces close to Japanese shores - and out of regional conflicts.
The new stress on economic rather than military security, however, may ultimately prove Japan's solution. Professor Nishihara and a group of high-ranking foreign ministry officials recently became the first Japanese to participate in a NATO seminar - a session on NATO's efforts to find new roles for itself. ''Because economic dimensions are coming in,'' Professor Nishihara said, ''we have to be involved.'' Over time such considerations could still usher in an age in which Japan can press its own agenda, if only it can first set one.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; Chart listing the worlds leading donors of foreign aid. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (53%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E TOSHIKI KAIFU (57%); 

 
