

1201 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Perry Calls His Flat Tax Proposal 'Bold Reform'

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; John Harwood contributed reporting from Simpsonville, S.C., Michael D. Shear from Washington, and Catherine Rampell from New York.

 BODY:
GRAY COURT, S.C. -- Gov. Rick Perry of Texas unveiled a plan on Tuesday to scrap the graduated income tax and replace it with a 20 percent flat rate. By throwing out rates as high as 35 percent and eliminating estate and investment taxes, the plan would grant a major tax cut for the wealthy. It is the centerpiece of an ambitious proposal that aims to overhaul political sacred cows like Social Security and Medicare while slashing the federal budget.
Mr. Perry, a Republican presidential candidate, said his proposal would also offer benefits to middle-class Americans by giving a $12,500 deduction for every member of a household while preserving exemptions for state and local taxes, mortgage interest and charitable contributions for anyone making less than $500,000. He said anyone could still file under the current code, and he also pledged to lower the corporate tax rate to 20 percent, from 35 percent. 
''Taxes will be cut on all income groups in America,'' said Mr. Perry, who promised that taxes could be filed on a postcard-size form under his plan. ''The net benefit will be more money in Americans' pockets, with greater investment in the private economy instead of the federal government.''
The plan represents a gamble for Mr. Perry, who is trying to reinvigorate a once-high-flying campaign by capturing some of the energy Herman Cain generated with his flat tax plan and by drawing a sharply conservative contrast with Mitt Romney.
But in proposing what he called ''bold reform'' that may trim Social Security and Medicare benefits for many, Mr. Perry is also advocating potentially sweeping changes in entitlement programs that may open him to new lines of attack from Republican rivals, all at a time when polling shows many Americans want to see higher -- not lower -- taxes on the wealthy.
The plan also proposes reducing the scope of the federal government by requiring drastically austere federal budgets -- compared with what exists now -- that spend no more than 18 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, which analysts said would most likely force big cuts in government spending at almost every level. That would equate to a cut of one-quarter of the budget from 2011 expected levels, and it would mark the lowest level of spending relative to G.D.P. since the mid-1960s, though rising tax receipts during the roaring economy of a dozen years ago temporarily brought the level close to 18 percent.
To address the projected long-term financial shortfall within Social Security, Mr. Perry suggested raising the retirement age and potentially changing the age eligibility for Medicare and using a sliding scale to limit benefits based on income -- two proposals that could face significant opposition in Congress. Mr. Perry, who said his plan would balance the budget by 2020, also proposed letting younger workers divert some of their Social Security taxes into private investment accounts, a longtime goal of economic conservatives.
Analysts said it would take time to examine the effects of the Perry plan. But Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, said: ''There are two things we can say with certainty: It will lower revenue and be a great benefit to the wealthy.''
He said the poor who have children would most likely do better under the current system, because refundable tax credits provide some with net payments from the government. But Mr. Williams said it was unclear how many among the middle class would benefit -- though families with more children or bigger mortgages would be more likely to opt for his proposal.
Mr. Perry pledged to not cut any benefits of current Social Security retirees or those about to tap into the system. But to do that, and cut the budget to 18 percent of G.D.P., would require cutting at least one-third of the remaining federal budget, said James R. Horney, the vice president for federal fiscal policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington. It would require ''a dismantling of federal programs,'' Mr. Horney said, and ''draconian cuts in virtually every kind of spending.''
Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for President Obama's re-election campaign, criticized both the Perry plan and one offered by Mr. Romney as ''guided by the same principle: they would shift a greater share of taxes away from large corporations and the wealthiest onto the backs of the middle class.''
Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, has called for extending the Bush tax cuts, lowering the corporate tax rate to 25 percent and exempting investment income for taxpayers who make less than $200,000.
Conservative tax activists like the Club for Growth say the Perry plan would spur economic growth, but many economists warn that if put in place immediately, anything that cuts the size of the federal government as severely as Mr. Perry's proposal would throw the nation back into a recession.
What remains to be seen is how much appetite there is among Republican primary voters for such an ambitious reshaping of tax policy and, potentially, entitlement programs. A New York Times/CBS poll released Tuesday found that 65 percent of Americans say taxes should be increased on households earning $1 million or more, while 66 percent say money and wealth in the country should be distributed more evenly. Another 69 percent say the policies of Republicans in Congress favor the rich, while 67 percent say it is a bad idea to lower taxes for large corporations.
Analysts also immediately raised questions about how many people would actually see their taxes simplified, one of Mr. Perry's main claims: Many middle-class families would actually need to figure their taxes using both systems before deciding which one would save them more money, potentially increasing the amount of time they spend on taxes rather than making tax preparation easier.
Another question is how well Mr. Perry and his newly revamped campaign team can package and sell the tax proposal. That effort may have been undermined on Tuesday, when, many media outlets, instead of focusing on the tax plan, covered Mr. Perry's statement in two interviews that he was not certain Mr. Obama was born in the United States. Those comments linked him to the ''birther'' movement, whose members question whether the president is occupying the White House legally.
Given an opportunity to play down the issue in an interview Monday night with CNBC and The New York Times, Mr. Perry refused, saying that ''it's a good issue to keep alive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry of Texas made a campaign appearance on Tuesday at a plant in Gray Court, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD SHIRO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: How Rick Perry's Plan Would Affect Income Taxes: A plan to reform the tax code released Tuesday by Gov. Rick Perry would eliminate the progressive income tax system and institute a flat 20 percent income tax. The current highest marginal tax rate is 35%. (Source: Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (70%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HERMAN CAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1202 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Banks Face Pressure on Eve Of Meeting on Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and JACK EWING; Stephen Castle reported from Brussels, and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Liz Alderman contributed reporting from Paris, and Elisabetta Povoledo from Rome.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European officials scrambled on Tuesday for a way to entice banks to accept much deeper losses on their Greek bonds as debt crisis talks went down to the wire before a crucial gathering of European leaders on Wednesday.
With less than 24 hours before the meeting of government leaders in Brussels, banking representatives and European officials were negotiating over what losses banks should accept.
The banks have taken a hard line and warned that the write-off of debts they are being asked to agree to -- about 55 percent -- could result in a default or similar shock to the financial system, something European officials are desperate to avert. That has prompted a search for so-called complementary measures that might help to sweeten the deal for the bankers.
Stock markets in Europe and the United States fell as investors feared that the meeting would not deliver a plan ambitious enough to solve Europe's financial crisis. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 2 percent. After reaching a bottom on Oct. 3, the index has risen 14 percent on signs that the American economy might be pulling out of recession.
But analysts said the markets were still vulnerable to turmoil in Europe, where the long political uncertainty was already unsettling credit markets and damping growth even in core economies like France. Interest rates on bonds of countries like Italy and Spain have risen sharply.
A failure to resolve the crisis definitively at the meeting on Wednesday, particularly by maximizing the firepower of a proposed $600 billion bailout fund, risks upsetting markets, analysts said.
''Europe still has the possibility of dragging the U.S. back into recession,'' said Sam Stovall, a strategist at S.& P. Equity Research in New York. ''What is going to be needed to keep markets happy will be funding'' for the bailout fund ''that goes well beyond $1 trillion to ring-fence the debt problems and allow the other economies to move forward,'' he said. Italy, meanwhile, has come increasingly under the spotlight as investors doubt the government's commitment to reduce its 1.9 trillion euro, or $2.6 trillion, debt.
European Union leaders want Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy to present firm plans on growth and debt reduction in time for the meeting.
Italian news agencies reported late Tuesday that Mr. Berlusconi had reached an accord with the Northern League, his principal coalition partner. The league's leader, Umberto Bossi, said earlier Tuesday that Mr. Berlusconi's government could fall over the issue of raising the standard retirement age to 67 from 65, a move Mr. Bossi opposed.
With the clock ticking, a senior German official, Jorg Asmussen, and a French counterpart, Ramon Fernandez, joined intensive discussions with the banks in Brussels.
Under one of about five plans being debated, Greek bonds might be swapped for those of much lower face value issued by the euro zone's bailout fund, according to two officials briefed on talks, who added that the idea might make a write-down more attractive for the banks.
The Institute of International Finance, which represents the banks involved, intends to send its own proposal to European leaders on Wednesday, according to a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations. That would involve banks taking more than the 21 percent loss they agreed to in July, in exchange for sweeteners that would help mitigate some of the additional loss, such as allowing banks to buy bonds from the bailout fund.
''It's clear that circumstances have changed too much for the July 21 agreement to work at this point,'' said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were continuing. ''We are prepared to adjust to new circumstances within limits. The question is, are the governments prepared to meet us halfway?''
Adding to the mood of anxiety, a meeting of European finance ministers on Wednesday, which was to precede the second gathering in a week of European leaders, was abruptly canceled on Tuesday by Poland, which holds the bloc's rotating presidency.
Though that was a recognition that the deal with the banks would not be ready by Wednesday morning, it did not mean that agreement was impossible later in the day, when the leaders meet, diplomats and officials said.
The summit meeting will still take place and ''work on the comprehensive package of measures to curb the sovereign debt crisis'' will continue there, a statement by the Polish presidency announcing the cancellation said.
Those measures include a recapitalization of European banks and augmenting the 440 billion euro bailout fund, probably to more than 1 trillion euros. That would likely be achieved through two methods that probably would run together.
The rescue fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility, is expected to offer insurance against part of the losses on bond purchases. A separate mechanism is expected to be set up to buy bonds, drawing in funds from the International Monetary Fund and other investors from the emerging world.
Though France is reluctant to bring other powers, like China, into the heart of the euro zone, it will probably have to overcome its reservations because of the gravity of the situation.
Though officials expect the European Central Bank to play a role in bond buying, at least in the short term until a new system is established, Germany is resisting any firm reference by leaders to this as part of the deal.
''It is important to have clarity on private sector involvement,'' Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a European Commission spokesman on economic and monetary affairs, told reporters in Brussels. ''All the issues are interlinked.''
The statement of the Polish presidency canceling the finance ministers' meeting was issued just hours after a declaration that the meeting would proceed, and increased the impression of confusion in European decision-making, sending stock markets and the euro lower.
Diplomats and officials said that the cancellation had less to do with the substance of the negotiations and more to do with internal politics of the 27-country European Union, of which only 17 countries are members of the euro currency zone.
''It's unfortunate handling by the Polish presidency, and bad news because the markets have tanked,'' the diplomat said on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the subject. But the diplomat said the summit meeting should not be affected.
While political leaders fumbled toward a solution, analysts and bankers began to contemplate the consequences if there is an agreement to sharply cut the Greek debt load and require banks to raise their reserves.
A reduction of 50 percent to 60 percent in the value of Greek bonds would be hard to dress up as anything but a default, analysts said. The resulting ''credit event'' would activate insurance that investors have bought on Greek debt, known as credit-default swaps.
Information was incomplete on which banks might have issued the swaps and could be vulnerable to losses, creating an extra element of risk.
Among policy makers and analysts, nervousness was palpable that there could be dire consequences that are impossible to predict.
''We have created a world that is noncomputable because it is too complex,'' said Fredmund Malik, chairman of Malik Management, a consultancy in St. Gallen, Switzerland.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The jobless awaited benefit checks on Tuesday at a labor office in Athens. Unemployment in Greece was 774,059 in September, up 109,000 from a year earlier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALKIS KONSTANTINIDIS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1203 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1320 words

PERSON: John McCarthy 

HEADLINE: John McCarthy, 84, Dies; Computer Design Pioneer

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
John McCarthy, a computer scientist who helped design the foundation of today's Internet-based computing and who is widely credited with coining the term for a frontier of research he helped pioneer, Artificial Intelligence, or A.I., died on Monday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 84.
The cause was complications of heart disease, his daughter Sarah McCarthy said.
Dr. McCarthy's career followed the arc of modern computing. Trained as a mathematician, he was responsible for seminal advances in the field and was often called the father of computer time-sharing, a major development of the 1960s that enabled many people and organizations to draw simultaneously from a single computer source, like a mainframe, without having to own one. 
By lowering costs, it allowed more people to use computers and laid the groundwork for the interactive computing of today.
Though he did not foresee the rise of the personal computer, Dr. McCarthy was prophetic in describing the implications of other technological advances decades before they gained currency.
''In the early 1970s, he presented a paper in France on buying and selling by computer, what is now called electronic commerce,'' said Whitfield Diffie, an Internet security expert who worked as a researcher for Dr. McCarthy at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
And in the study of artificial intelligence, ''no one is more influential than John,'' Mr. Diffie said.
While teaching mathematics at Dartmouth in 1956, Dr. McCarthy was the principal organizer of the first Dartmouth Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
The idea of simulating human intelligence had been discussed for decades, but the term ''artificial intelligence'' -- originally used to help raise funds to support the conference -- stuck.
In 1958, Dr. McCarthy moved to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where, with Marvin Minsky, he founded the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. It was at M.I.T. that he began working on what he called List Processing Language, or Lisp, a computer language that became the standard tool for artificial intelligence research and design.
Around the same time he came up with a technique called garbage collection, in which pieces of computer code that are not needed by a running computation are automatically removed from the computer's random access memory.
He developed the technique in 1959 and added it to Lisp. That technique is now routinely used in Java and other programming languages.
His M.I.T. work also led to fundamental advances in software and operating systems. In one, he was instrumental in developing the first time-sharing system for mainframe computers.
The power of that invention would come to shape Dr. McCarthy's worldview to such an extent that when the first personal computers emerged with local computing and storage in the 1970s, he belittled them as toys.
Rather, he predicted, wrongly, that in the future everyone would have a relatively simple and inexpensive computer terminal in the home linked to a shared, centralized mainframe and use it as an electronic portal to the worlds of commerce and news and entertainment media.
Dr. McCarthy, who taught briefly at Stanford in the early 1950s, returned there in 1962 and in 1964 became the founding directorof the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, or SAIL. Its optimistic, space-age goal, with financial backing from the Pentagon, was to create a working artificial intelligence system within a decade.
Years later he developed a healthy respect for the challenge, saying that creating a ''thinking machine'' would require ''1.8 Einsteins and one-tenth the resources of the Manhattan Project.''
Artificial intelligence is still thought to be far in the future, though tremendous progress has been made in systems that mimic many human skills, including vision, listening, reasoning and, in robotics, the movements of limbs. From the mid-'60s to the mid-'70s, the Stanford lab played a vital role in creating some of these technologies, including robotics and machine-vision natural language.
In 1972, the laboratory drew national attention when Stewart Brand, the founder of The Whole Earth Catalog, wrote about it in Rolling Stone magazine under the headline ''SPACEWAR: Fanatic Life and Symbolic Death Among the Computer Bums.'' The article evoked the esprit de corps of a group of researchers who had been freed to create their own virtual worlds, foreshadowing the emergence of cyberspace. ''Ready or not, computers are coming to the people,'' Mr. Brand wrote.
Dr. McCarthy had begun inviting the Homebrew Computer Club, a Silicon Valley hobbyist group,to meet at the Stanford lab. Among its growing membership were Steven P. Jobs and Steven Wozniak, who would go on to found Apple. Mr. Wozniak designed his first personal computer prototype, the Apple 1, to share with his Homebrew friends.
But Dr. McCarthy still cast a jaundiced eye on personal computing. In the second Homebrew newsletter, he suggested the formation of a ''Bay Area Home Terminal Club,'' to provide computer access on a shared Digital Equipment computer. He thought a user fee of $75 a month would be reasonable.
Though Dr. McCarthy would initially miss the significance of the PC, his early thinking on electronic commerce would influence Mr. Diffie at the Stanford lab. Drawing on those ideas, Mr. Diffie began thinking about what would replace the paper personal check in an all-electronic world.
He and two other researchers went on to develop the basic idea of public key cryptography, which is now the basis of all modern electronic banking and commerce, providing secure interaction between a consumer and a business.
A chess enthusiast, Dr. McCarthy had begun working on chess-playing computer programs in the 1950s at Dartmouth. Shortly after joining the Stanford lab, he engaged a group of Soviet computer scientists in an intercontinental chess match after he discovered they had a chess-playing computer. Played by telegraph, the match consisted of four games and lasted almost a year. The Soviet scientists won.
John McCarthy was born on Sept. 4, 1927, into a politically engaged family in Boston. His father, John Patrick McCarthy, was an Irish immigrant and a labor organizer.
His mother, the former Ida Glatt, a Lithuanian Jewish immigrant, was active in the suffrage movement. Both parents were members of the Communist Party. The family later moved to Los Angeles in part because of John's respiratory problems.
He entered the California Institute of Technology in 1944 and went on to graduate studies at Princeton, where he was a colleague of John Forbes Nash Jr., the Nobel Prize-winning economist and subject of Sylvia Nasar's book ''A Beautiful Mind,'' which was adapted into a movie.
At Princeton, in 1949, he briefly joined the local Communist Party cell, which had two other members: a cleaning woman and a gardener, he told an interviewer. But he quit the party shortly afterward.
In the '60s, as the Vietnam War escalated, his politics took a conservative turn as he grew disenchanted with leftist politics.
In 1971 Dr. McCarthy received the Turing Award, the most prestigious given by the Association of Computing Machinery, for his work in artificial intelligence. He was awarded the Kyoto Prize in 1988, the National Medal of Science in 1991 and the Benjamin Franklin Medal in 2003.
Dr. McCarthy was married three times. His second wife, Vera Watson, a member of the American Women's Himalayan Expedition, died in a climbing accident on Annapurna in 1978.
Besides his daughter Sarah, of Nevada City, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Carolyn Talcott, of Stanford; another daughter, Susan McCarthy, of San Francisco; and a son, Timothy, of Stanford.
He remained an independent thinker throughout his life. Some years ago, one of his daughters presented him with a license plate bearing one of his favorite aphorisms: ''Do the arithmetic or be doomed to talk nonsense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John McCarthy (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANFORD UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (55%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1204 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Venture Capitalists Put Money On Easing Medical Device Rules

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and JANET ROBERTS

 BODY:
One afternoon last spring, a little-known congressman from Minnesota made an impassioned plea before a House oversight committee.
Rein in the Food and Drug Administration's uncertain approval process for new medical devices, urged the Minnesota congressman, Erik Paulsen, or Minnesota and other states stand to lose up to 400,000 jobs because of lost investment in the device industry.
Over the following month, Mr. Paulsen's campaign committee took in $74,000 from people with a stake in device regulation, much of it from executives affiliated with venture capital funds and their spouses. Now Mr. Paulsen, a two-term Republican, is a sponsor of a bill that would make it easier to bring new medical products to market.
As Congress considers reauthorizing a law that sets the fees for medical device makers, venture capitalists are emerging as a rich and influential ally of device companies eager to remove what they say are regulatory roadblocks in the approval process. The push has alarmed patient advocates and some doctors, who have been calling on the F.D.A. to intensify its oversight of devices, particularly in light of some all-metal artificial hips that are failing prematurely at an unusually high rate. 
''They have this unwritten assumption that every new device is innovative,'' Dr. Rita Redberg, who is the editor of the Archives of Internal Medicine, said, referring to the venture capital funds. But some devices, she said, ''are killing people or causing significant harm.''
People associated with funds that underwrite companies developing new devices and other health products have made more than $3.3 million in political donations to Republicans, Democrats and political action committees over the past five years, according to an analysis of federal contributions by The New York Times.
Though such people donate for many reasons, about 20 percent of the money from the 182 donors identified by The Times went directly to candidates and political action committees supporting a streamlining of F.D.A. policy or other issues of importance to medical products producers. The total contributions from such donors could be much higher; The Times limited its analysis to individuals affiliated with venture capital funds that have joined two lobbying associations.
Investment funds and business groups have also increased their lobbying in Washington and have generated a stream of reports arguing that regulations are crippling innovation and driving away investment.
Simply put, the industry's champions argue that the F.D.A. suffers from high personnel turnover, an unwieldy bureaucracy and a regimen that forces start-up device companies to run new and costly tests constantly, often duplicating past efforts.
''This is about survival,'' said Michael Carusi, a general manager at an investment fund in Palo Alto, Calif., Advanced Technology Ventures, who contributed $1,000 to Mr. Paulsen. ''We are deeply concerned about the future.''
Medical devices encompass a wide array of products, such as heart defibrillators, artificial joints and diagnostic equipment.
Lobbying to smooth the approval process has intensified over the last year as Congress prepares to reauthorize the law that requires device producers to pay fees to the F.D.A., fees that are used to pay the agency's operating costs. Lawmakers have an opportunity to alter the agency's regulatory procedures for the first time since the law last came up for renewal in 2007.
An industry lobbying group, the National Venture Capital Association, has intensified its focus on device regulation. In 2010, the association, which lobbies on many issues, spent more than $2.5 million, according to data from the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. About $350,000 of that was related to devices, drugs and health care, a figure that is expected to increase to $450,000 this year, said an association spokeswoman, Emily Mendell.
While it is not unusual for businesses to point to regulation as a barrier to economic and job growth, medical device investors have found a particularly receptive audience on Capitol Hill in recent months. In October alone, 10 bills have been introduced by Republicans in the House to speed up the F.D.A. device approval process; in the Senate, similar legislation has been introduced by Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat of Minnesota.
Since February, four House panels have held hearings on the impact of F.D.A. procedures on device approval. At those sessions, 19 of the 26 listed witnesses were investors, entrepreneurs, industry consultants, trade group officials or patients who said that agency delays in approving a device had harmed them or a loved one. The list included no patients injured by a flawed device; one hearing in the Senate had a more varied witness list. Two weeks ago, four Democratic congressmen wrote to their Republican counterparts about the imbalance in the House testimony and suggested the hearings had failed to address potential dangers ''if medical devices are not appropriately regulated.''
The letter, signed by Henry A. Waxman of California, Diana DeGette of Colorado, John Dingell of Michigan and Frank Pallone of New Jersey, also urged that hearings be held on the metal hip problem and similar issues.
Venture fund executives like Mr. Carusi and lawmakers like Mr. Paulsen insist that they are equally concerned about safety. However, in their view, a big part of the problem at the F.D.A. is philosophical; top officials, these critics say, have overreacted to recent episodes involving flawed products and become risk-averse. As a result, devices are available first in Europe, they say.
''The key is to strike the right balance,'' said Dr. Josh Makower, a device developer and a consultant to New Enterprise Associates, a venture fund in Palo Alto.
F.D.A. officials said they have recently tried to address investors' concerns by announcing programs to encourage innovation and reduce regulatory burdens. Still, the head of the agency's device division, Dr. Jeffrey E. Shuren, said that executives like Dr. Makower seemed more interested in politicizing the issue than resolving it through discussion.
''The dialogue has become more political and adversarial,'' Dr. Shuren said.
Some medical experts have also questioned recent studies about the negative impact of regulations, calling the reviews flawed in methodology.
William Vodra, a lawyer in Washington who has worked closely with medical device producers, said that investors had legitimate concerns about regulatory speed. That is because the approval of a new device can begin a process in which a start-up company is acquired by a larger manufacturer and early investors profit by cashing out.
But such investors may be less interested in what happens to that device after it reaches the market because they have already moved on, said Mr. Vodra, who served on an Institute of Medicine panel that recently concluded the F.D.A. failed to properly assess the safety and effectiveness of many new devices.
Mr. Paulsen, the Minnesota congressman, did not respond to requests for an interview. But a spokesman, Tom Erickson, said that the lawmaker's testimony this spring was unrelated to any campaign donations and reflected his long-held view that the F.D.A. was undermining an industry crucial to Minnesota.
''He gave his testimony because he feels these jobs are being threatened by an inconsistent and unpredictable F.D.A.,'' Mr. Erickson said. Mr. Paulsen, along with Democrats and Republicans from states that are home to device makers, has also sought to repeal a tax on sales imposed on the industry under the health care overhaul law.
Dr. Makower, the venture fund consultant, has donated $5,000 to Mr. Paulsen, records show.
''I think that he understands this issue,'' said Dr. Makower.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Erik Paulsen favors legislation that would benefit the medical device industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) CHART: Voting With Their Wallets: On June 2, a Republican congressman, Erik Paulsen, testified to Congress that the F.D.A.'s approval process for medical devices should be streamlined. By the end of June, his campaign had received $74,000 from groups with a stake in device regulation and related issues. In October, he introduced legislation to streamline device review. (Sources: Center for Responsive Politics
 Federal Election Commission) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FDA REVIEW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (72%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (51%)

COMPANY: ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VENTURES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1205 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: It's Consumer Spending, Stupid

BYLINE: By JAMES LIVINGSTON. 
James Livingston, a professor of history at Rutgers, is the author of ''Against Thrift: Why Consumer Culture Is Good for the Economy, the Environment and Your Soul.''

 BODY:
AS an economic historian who has been studying American capitalism for 35 years, I'm going to let you in on the best-kept secret of the last century: private investment -- that is, using business profits to increase productivity and output -- doesn't actually drive economic growth. Consumer debt and government spending do. Private investment isn't even necessary to promote growth.
This is, to put it mildly, a controversial claim. Economists will tell you that private business investment causes growth because it pays for the new plant or equipment that creates jobs, improves labor productivity and increases workers' incomes. As a result, you'll hear politicians insisting that more incentives for private investors -- lower taxes on corporate profits -- will lead to faster and better-balanced growth. 
The general public seems to agree. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll in May, a majority of Americans believe that increased corporate taxes ''would discourage American companies from creating jobs.''
But history shows that this is wrong.
Between 1900 and 2000, real gross domestic product per capita (the output of goods and services per person) grew more than 600 percent. Meanwhile, net business investment declined 70 percent as a share of G.D.P. What's more, in 1900 almost all investment came from the private sector -- from companies, not from government -- whereas in 2000, most investment was either from government spending (out of tax revenues) or ''residential investment,'' which means consumer spending on housing, rather than business expenditure on plants, equipment and labor.
In other words, over the course of the last century, net business investment atrophied while G.D.P. per capita increased spectacularly. And the source of that growth? Increased consumer spending, coupled with and amplified by government outlays.
The architects of the Reagan revolution tried to reverse these trends as a cure for the stagflation of the 1970s, but couldn't. In fact, private or business investment kept declining in the '80s and after. Peter G. Peterson, a former commerce secretary, complained that real growth after 1982 -- after President Ronald Reagan cut corporate tax rates -- coincided with ''by far the weakest net investment effort in our postwar history.''
President George W. Bush's tax cuts had similar effects between 2001 and 2007: real growth in the absence of new investment. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, retained corporate earnings that remain uninvested are now close to 8 percent of G.D.P., a staggering sum in view of the unemployment crisis we face.
So corporate profits do not drive economic growth -- they're just restless sums of surplus capital, ready to flood speculative markets at home and abroad. In the 1920s, they inflated the stock market bubble, and then caused the Great Crash. Since the Reagan revolution, these superfluous profits have fed corporate mergers and takeovers, driven the dot-com craze, financed the ''shadow banking'' system of hedge funds and securitized investment vehicles, fueled monetary meltdowns in every hemisphere and inflated the housing bubble.
Why, then, do so many Americans support cutting taxes on corporate profits while insisting that thrift is the cure for what ails the rest of us, as individuals and a nation? Why have the 99 percent looked to the 1 percent for leadership when it comes to our economic future?
A big part of the problem is that we doubt the moral worth of consumer culture. Like the abstemious ant who scolds the feckless grasshopper as winter approaches, we think that saving is the right thing to do. Even as we shop with abandon, we feel that if only we could contain our unruly desires, we'd be committing ourselves to a better future. But we're wrong.
Consumer spending is not only the key to economic recovery in the short term; it's also necessary for balanced growth in the long term. If our goal is to repair our damaged economy, we should bank on consumer culture -- and that entails a redistribution of income away from profits toward wages, enabled by tax policy and enforced by government spending. (The increased trade deficit that might result should not deter us, since a large portion of manufactured imports come from American-owned multinational corporations that operate overseas.)
We don't need the traders and the C.E.O.'s and the analysts -- the 1 percent -- to collect and manage our savings. Instead, we consumers need to save less and spend more in the name of a better future. We don't need to silence the ant, but we'd better start listening to the grasshopper.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (75%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TAX LAW (69%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1206 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Barack Kissinger Obama

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Who would have predicted it? Barack Obama has turned out to be so much more adept at implementing George W. Bush's foreign policy than Bush was, but he is less adept at implementing his own. The reasons, though, are obvious.
In his own way, President Obama has brought the country to the right strategy for Bush's ''war on terrorism.'' It is a serious, focused combination of global intelligence coordination, targeted killing of known terrorists and limited interventions -- like Libya -- that leverage popular forces on the ground and allies, as well as a judicious use of U.S. power, so that we keep the costs and risks down. In Libya, Obama saved lives and gave Libyans a chance to build a decent society. What they do with this opportunity is now up to them. I am still wary, but Obama handled his role exceedingly well. 
No doubt George Bush and Dick Cheney thought that both Iraq and Afghanistan would be precisely such focused, limited operations. Instead, they each turned out to be like a bad subprime mortgage -- a small down payment with a huge balloon five years down the road. They thought they would be able to ''flip'' the house before the balloon came due. But partly because of their incompetence and lack of planning, it took much longer to flip the house to new owners and the price America paid was huge. Iraq may still have a decent outcome -- I hope so, and it would be important -- but even if it becomes Switzerland, we overpaid for it.
So let's be clear: Up to now, as a commander in chief in the war on terrorism, Obama and his national security team have been so much smarter, tougher and cost-efficient in keeping the country safe than the ''adults'' they replaced. It isn't even close, which is why the G.O.P.'s elders have such a hard time admitting it.
But while Obama has been deft at implementing Bush's antiterrorism policy, he has been less successful with his own foreign policy. His Arab-Israeli diplomacy has been a mess. His hopes of engaging Iran foundered on the rocks of, well, Iran. He's made little effort to pull together a multilateral coalition to buttress the Arab Awakening, in places like Egypt, to handle the postrevolution challenges. His ill-considered decision to double down on Afghanistan could prove fatal. He is in a war of words with Pakistan. His global climate policy is an invisible embarrassment. And the coolly calculating Chinese and Russians, while occasionally throwing him a bone, pursue their interests with scant regard to Obama's preferences. Why is that?
Here I come to defend Obama not to condemn him.
True, he was naive about how much his star power, or that of his secretary of state, would get others to swoon in behind us. But Obama's frustrations in bagging a big, nonmilitary foreign policy achievement are rooted in a much broader structural problem -- one that also explains why we have not produced a history-changing secretary of state since the cold war titans Henry Kissinger, George Shultz and James Baker.
The reason: the world has gotten messier and America has lost leverage. When Kissinger was negotiating in the Middle East in the 1970s, he had to persuade just three people to make a deal: an all-powerful Syrian dictator, Hafez al-Assad; an Egyptian pharaoh, Anwar Sadat; and an Israeli prime minister with an overwhelming majority, Golda Meir.
To make history, Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, by contrast, need to extract a deal from a crumbling Syrian regime, a crumbled Egyptian regime, a fractious and weak Israeli coalition and a Palestinian movement broken into two parts.
We don't even bother anymore to negotiate with the flimsy civilian government in Pakistan. We just go right to its military, which only wants to perpetuate the conflict with India -- and exploit Afghanistan as a chip in that war -- to justify the Pakistani Army's endless consumption of so many state resources.
Making history through diplomacy ''depends on making deals with other governments,'' says Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins University foreign policy expert (and co-author with me on ''That Used to Be Us''). ''But now, to make such deals, we actually have to build the governments we want to negotiate with -- and we can't do that.'' Indeed, in so many hot spots today, we have to do nation-building before we can do diplomacy. So many states propped up by the cold war are failing.
And where states are stronger -- like Russia, China and Iran -- we have less leverage because leverage is ultimately a function of economic strength. And while many of America's companies are still strong, our government is mired in debt. When a nation is in debt as deep as we are -- with severe defense cuts inevitable -- its bark is always bigger than its bite.
The best way for us to gain leverage on Russia and Iran would be with an energy policy that reduced the price and significance of oil. The only way to gain more leverage on China is if we increase our savings and graduation rates -- and export more and consume less. That isn't in the cards.
So, Mama, tell your children not to grow up to be secretary of state or a foreign policy president -- not until others have done more nation-building abroad and we've done more nation-building at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1207 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: New Poll Finds a Deep Distrust of Government

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marjorie Connelly, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With Election Day just over a year away, a deep sense of economic anxiety and doubt about the future hangs over the nation, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, with Americans' distrust of government at its highest level ever.
The combustible climate helps explain the volatility of the presidential race and has provided an opening for protest movements like Occupy Wall Street, to highlight grievances about banks, income inequality and a sense that the poor and middle class have been disenfranchised. 
Almost half of the public thinks the sentiment at the root of the Occupy movement generally reflects the views of most Americans.
With nearly all Americans remaining fearful that the economy is stagnating or deteriorating further, two-thirds of the public said that wealth should be distributed more evenly in the country. Seven in 10 Americans think the policies of Congressional Republicans favor the rich. Two-thirds object to tax cuts for corporations and a similar number prefer increasing income taxes on millionaires.
On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released a new study concluding that income distribution had become much more uneven in the last three decades, a report that could figure prominently in the battle over how to revive the economy and rein in the federal debt.
The poll findings underscore a dissatisfaction and restlessness heading into the election season that has been highlighted through competing voices from the Occupy Wall Street and Tea Party movements, a broad anti-Washington sentiment and the crosscurrents inside both parties about the best way forward.
Not only do 89 percent of Americans say they distrust government to do the right thing, but 74 percent say the country is on the wrong track and 84 percent disapprove of Congress -- warnings for Democrats and Republicans alike.
Republican voters remain unenthused about their options to challenge President Obama next year, as the competition intensifies among Mitt Romney, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and other contenders. The uncertainty has provided an opening for Herman Cain, who was viewed more enthusiastically by Republican primary voters than were other Republican candidates.
The approval rating for Mr. Obama, 46 percent, appears to be elevated by positions he has taken on foreign affairs. Sixty percent of those questioned said they approve of his handling of Iraq, a question added to the poll after his announcement last Friday that American troops would come home by the end of the year.
But the president, whose disapproval rating is also 46 percent, also faces mixed signals from the public about his latest job-creation proposals. While the poll found substantial support for the plan's individual components, more than half of the public say he lacks a clear plan for creating jobs, despite his extensive travels around the country over the last six weeks selling his proposals.
With the nation's unemployment rate at 9.1 percent, income inequality remains a palpable issue for Americans. Nearly 9 in 10 Democrats, two-thirds of independents and just over one-third of all Republicans say that the distribution of wealth in the country should be more equitable, even as a majority of Republicans said they think it is fair.
The poll showed the depth of malaise in the air as the president intensifies his re-election campaign and Republican candidates implore voters to give them a look.
''I don't want to blanket the whole government that way, but it's getting scary,'' said Jo Waters, 87, a Democrat and a retired hospital administrator from Pleasanton, Calif., speaking in a follow-up telephone interview. ''Everything is for the wealthy. This used to be a lovely country, but everything is sliding.''
With the nation's first Republican nominating contests just two months away, a large majority of primary voters have yet to make up their minds about the candidate they hope becomes their nominee. About 8 in 10 Republican primary voters said it was still too early to tell whom they will support, and just 4 in 10 said they had been paying a lot of attention to the race.
Mr. Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, is riding the latest wave of support among Republican primary voters that has placed him in a statistical dead heat with Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. Support for Mr. Perry has weakened to 6 percent, placing him among the second-tier candidates with the former House speaker Newt Gingrich and Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
Congressional Republicans are viewed even worse than the president, with 71 percent of the public saying the party does not have a clear plan for creating jobs. And support for several other Republican proposals is more tepid than for Mr. Obama's initiatives to lift the economy.
Only about a quarter of the public said that lowering taxes on large corporations or repealing the entire national health care law was a good idea. But half of the public favors reducing or repealing regulations on businesses in the United States.
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted from last Wednesday through Monday with 1,650 adults, of whom 1,475 were registered to vote. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points.
A remarkable sense of pessimism and skepticism was apparent in question after question in the survey, which found that Congressional approval has reached a new low at 9 percent. The disapproval toward Congress has risen 22 percentage points since the beginning of the year when Republicans took control of the House.
''Probably the government in Washington could be trusted at one time but now it seems like it's all a game of who wins rather than what's best for the people,'' said Paulette Delgadillo, 52, a self-employed interior decorator from Tempe, Ariz.
Nearly all Americans agree that the nation's economic outlook is dark, with 49 percent saying the economy is at a standstill and 36 percent saying it is getting worse. But nearly three-quarters of the public lack confidence that Congress will be able to reach agreement on a plan to help create jobs.
In February, a CBS News poll found that 27 percent of the public said the views of the Tea Party movement reflected the sentiment of most Americans. In the current poll, 46 percent of the public said the same of the Occupy Wall Street movement. ''They do reflect the discontent of most Americans,'' said Sheila Shriver, 69, a retired special education teacher and independent voter from Columbus, Ohio. ''People are unhappy with the way the country seems to be moving, especially when it comes to lack of jobs. Washington hasn't even been concerned about that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: More than half of Americans say that President Obama, who was in San Francisco on Tuesday, lacks a clear plan for creating jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHARTS: Views on Congress and Government
Views of the President
Views on Income Distribution and Policy Equality
 The Occupy Wall Street Movement (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1208 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Wednesday

BYLINE: PAMPOSH RAINA


HIGHLIGHT: Top stories on Wednesday. 

 BODY:
The head of the agency that manages travel for Kiran Bedi severed ties with her nongovernmental organization, India Vision Foundation, on Tuesday. Anil Bal, proprietor of Flywell Travel, claimed that the controversy over the inflated travel invoices furnished by Ms. Bedi had unnecessarily tarnished his reputation. Mr. Bal, a founding member of the foundation, also resigned as trustee of the organization .

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was skeptical of the July 2005 nuclear agreement with the United States in the run-up to the joint statement declaring the pact, a new book by former U.S. Secretary of State Condelezzaa Rice claims. Mr. Singh was wary about the impact of the deal on domestic politics, Ms. Rice writes in her upcoming memoir "In No Higher Honor." The then-foreign minister, Natwar Singh, was far more adamant about the deal -- called the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Cooperation -- and worked with U.S. officials to persuade the prime minister it was a good idea .
After hiking interest rates 13 times since March 2010, the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday increased the repo rate, the short-term borrowing rates, for banks one more time to 8.5 percent, with immediate effect as "inflation is above the comfort level of the Reserve Bank." The bank indicated that more hikes may not be needed, as inflation is likely to fall in December .
India defeated England by 95 runs in the final match of the ODI series on Tuesday at the home turf in Eden Gardens in Kolkata. India scored a challenging 271 for eight and stopped England at 176 in 37 overs, which sealed a 5-0 series by the team led by captain Mahendra Singh Dohni. This comes as a perfect Diwali gift to the country celebrating the festival today .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DIWALI (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Politics and Government; India

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (73%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011



1209 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Wild-Eyed Theorists In Pinstripes

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The ECB's radical theory, and the damage it's doing. 

 BODY:
In what amounts to a perfect followup to my post on the amnesiac economy, Paul De Grauwe takes the ECB to task for refusing to do what is necessary to save the euro, and taking refuge in a very narrow definition of its role.
The point here is that we have a couple of centuries' experience with central banking, and that experience clearly shows that the lender of last resort function is crucial. The Federal Reserve basically was created after America had to rely on J.P. Morgan to fill that role in the panic of 1907, and it was recognized that one couldn't always count on having a J.P. Morgan on hand when you needed one. (The Fed went on to fail to do its job in 1930-31, but that's another story.)
Yet we have some people in Frankfurt who are apparently dedicated to the proposition that they can be Europe's central bank without performing that function, that their job is stable prices, period. This amounts to a radical theory at odds with evidence and experience. And it's a theory that could kill the euro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1210 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: F.T.C. Claims Abusive Tactics by Two Debt Collection Firms

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Complaints filed by the Federal Trade Commission claim two California-based debt collectors used abusive tactics. 

 BODY:
In tough economic times, with many people out of work and struggling to pay their bills, it's no surprise that debt collectors are out in force. But recently, the Federal Trade Commission moved to shut down two California-based operators that handled collections nationally, including one that is accused of using tactics so egregious that they resemble scenes from a film noir script.
The first case involves a company operating from Van Nuys, Calif., under various names, including Forensic Case Management Services and Rumson, Bolling & Associates, which hired itself out to small businesses on a contingency basis. In other words, it charged no fee unless it was successful in collecting on a debt. (Its slogan was "no recovery, no fee.")
The F.T.C.'scomplaint, filed in Federal District Court for the Central District of California in Los Angeles, charges the company with violations of the F.T.C. Act and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, which outline what firms can and cannot do to collect a debt. (Harassment and threats of physical harm, as you might expect, are not allowed.) You can read about the rules here.
When the company's collectors got a consumer on the phone, the commission claims, representatives used abusive language - most of which can't be published here -- to bully people into making a payment. (The least crude of the terms included "deadbeat," "lowlife" and "piece of crap.") The company also divulged some people's debts to neighbors and co-workers.
The commission's complaint offers two jaw-dropping examples. In one, the callers attempted to collect from a woman who was unable to pay the balance due for her daughter's funeral. "During the calls, Rumson, Bolling & Associates told her they were going to dig her daughter up and hang her from a tree if she did not pay the debt," the complaint says. Callers also threatened to eat her dog and even to kill her if she didn't pay, the complaint says.
Another instance involved a woman who had fallen behind on her payments to a funeral home, after both of her sons died within a week of each other. The callers "asked how she would feel if her son's body was dug up and dropped outside her door," the complaint states.
In some cases, the consumers were terrified enough to turn over some cash. But even then, the company "in many cases" didn't send the money along to its clients, "instead keeping the proceeds from the collection efforts for themselves."
On Sept. 27, the court granted the F.T.C.'s request to stop the company's operations and continue a freeze on its assets. The court also appointed a receiverto oversee the company while the agency pursued the case.
Christopher Pitet, a lawyer for the defendants, said they disputed the claims. "This was a business committed to running lawfully," he said. "If there were violations of the act, it was by employees not acting in accordance with company policy."
In the second case, also filed with the Federal District Court for the Central Division of California, the F.T.C. claims that collectors with seven related companies operating out of Corona, Calif., including Rincon Management Services, used "bogus threats" of lawsuits to intimidate consumers into paying debts that they often did not even owe.
The callers posed as lawyers or process servers, the complaint says, and sometimes called the consumer's employer or family in an attempt to trick them into thinking they, too, could face legal action if they did not help the collector obtain payment.
The company gave employees scripts, in both English and Spanish, that included tips like "contact relatives instead of the debtor on the initial call to create urgency," the complaint says.
On Oct. 11, the court granted the commission's request for a temporary restraining order against Rincon, which halted its operations, froze its assets and appointed a receiver to run the business while the agency pursued the case.
Calls to phone numbers listed for Rincon were not immediately returned.
Have you had an unpleasant experience with a debt collector?

        
Where Do You Rank Among the 99 (or 1) Percent?
        
Does the New Normal Include Private Unemployment Insurance?
        
Readers Respond to Juggling Jobs
        
The Soon-to-Evaporate Help for At-Risk Homeowners in 32 States
        
Kids' Money Questions: Will We Run Out of Money Now That You Have No Job?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (93%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (93%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); FORENSICS (71%) Unemployment; Collection Agencies; Federal Trade Commission; California

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (98%) Federal Trade Commission

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1211 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: A One-Page Form to Compare College Aid Offers

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The federal government is proposing a one-page form to help students compare financial aid offers. 

 BODY:
In its latest effort to simplify consumer finance, the new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has teamed up with the Department of Education to create a one-page financial aid "shopping sheet."
The idea here is that a single sheet of basic information would help students and their families better understand the amount of financial aid they qualify for, and compare aid packages offered by different colleges and universities before deciding which school to attend.
The draft sheet (you can see it here; the agencies want public feedback on the format, and what changes would make it better) would help make the costs, and risks, of student loans clear before students have enrolled. It outlines the student's total estimated debt and monthly loan payments after graduation.
Raj Date, who is leading the bureau, said in a statement that student loans can help make lives better by helping people access education. "But in these tough economic times," he said, "the stakes have never been higher for students and their families to clearly understand the costs and risks of student loans."
Student loans in the United States now appear to be the biggest source of household debt after mortgages. In part, that's because more students are going to college, but it's also because tuition is increasing.
The draft form includes the total cost of attendance, including tuition, fees, and other expenses; a clear distinction between scholarships, which don't have to be repaid, and loans; a list of the different federal loans available to the student; the total estimated student loan debt at graduation; and the estimated monthly debt payments after graduation.
The bureau is also offering a new toolto help students who may be struggling to repay their college debt evaluate possible options.
Take a look at the form and the tool, and let us know what you think in the comments section.

        
Post Your Questions on the New Student Loan Developments
        
Most Students Spared Big Cuts in Debt Bill
        
How to Shop for a Student Loan (if You Must)
        
College Students Don't View Debt as Burden
        
Attending Community College to Save Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%) Student Loans; Tuition; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Education Department (US)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (93%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Education Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1212 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: New York Metro Area Has Highest Inequality in Country

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A new report from the Census on income inequality at the state, metro area and neighborhood levels. 

 BODY:
It's probably no wonder that the "Occupy" movement began with Wall Street: the New York metropolitan area has the highest inequality in the country, according to a new report from the Census Bureau.
The report, by Daniel H. Weinberg, analyzed income data at various geographical levels and found that the region encompassing New York, northern New Jersey, Long Island and parts of Pennsylvania had the highest income inequality of any large metro area. 
New York State also has the highest income inequality of all 50 states (although Washington, D.C., was worse).
Below is a map showing three measures of income inequality for each state: the Gini index (which ranges from 0.0, when all households have equal shares of income, to 1.0, when one household has all the income and the rest has none); a ratio of household income at the 90th percentile to that at the 10th percentile; and a ratio of household income at the 95th percentile to that at the 20th.
In all cases, a higher value means greater inequality.
After New York, Connecticut, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas have among the most unequal income distributions. At the low end are New Hampshire, Alaska and Utah, which is the most economically homogenous state in the nation.
Utah's capital, Salt Lake City, also has the lowest income inequality of any major American metro area. The most unequal, as mentioned above, is New York, followed by Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach, Fla. 
Mr. Weinberg's report also has inequality measures down to the neighborhood level, which I recommend checking out. Remember, though, that fewer people are surveyed in such small places, so the margin of error is much greater.

        
The Gender Pay Gap, by State
        
About That 99 Percent ...
        
The North Dakota Miracle
        
Labor's Decline and Wage Inequality
        
Where Do You Fall on the Income Curve?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); CITIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); EQUAL PAY (63%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (63%) Income Inequality; inequality; map; states; States (US); Census Bureau; New York City

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1213 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: When Confidence Is Lower Than the Economy Itself

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: With a report due Thursday on the nation's third-quarter economic output, actual spending doesn't seem to reflect the gloom that Americans report feeling. 

 BODY:
Distrust in government is at its highest level in recorded history. Americans are worried that the economy is cratering. Protesters in the Occupy movement are voicing the frustrations of an increasing number of people.
There is no question that these sentiments reflect a grim reality: the poverty level is up. Inequality has grown sharply since the 1970s. The European debt crisis remains unresolved. Unemployment is stuck at 9 percent, and if you count the people who have either given up looking or those who have taken part-time jobs because they can't find full-time work, close to one in six people is underemployed.
Yet by at least one measure, how people feel seems disconnected from how things are. Consumer confidence is back down to lows last seen during the depths of the Great Recession, despite the fact that the economy is still, believe it or not, growing.
On Thursday, the Commerce Department will announce its estimate for economic growth in the three months from July through September. The consensus is now for an annual rate of 2.5 percent. Although that's certainly not enough to bring down the unemployment rate significantly or increase middle-class incomes, it does suggest that the economy is not currently on the cusp of a double-dip recession.
Yet consumer confidence, as measured by both the Conference Board and the University of Michigan/Reuters index, is down to lows last seen in the fourth quarter of 2008, when the economy actually contracted at an annual rate of 9 percent.

It's possible that the dip in confidence is a precursor of an actual pullback in spending that would, in turn, push economic growth down. But for now, actual spending does not seem to reflect the gloom that people feel. Chain store sales are up, as are auto sales. Part of the reason car sales have risen is that the supply chain disruptions caused by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami have receded. But people still have to buy the cars that are being produced.
Cars are usually bought on credit, which means buyers are committing to a stream of payments into the future. The fact that consumers are purchasing autos, said Ben Herzon, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, "suggests they are not feeling as glum as they are reporting."
It is not unprecedented that consumers would feel much worse than they actually behave.
According to the Conference Board, people do take longer to recover from a recession than the official economic metrics, in part because companies do not tend to create a lot of jobs until they are sure that growth is going to last. "The labor market has a significant impact on confidence readings," said Lynn Franco, director of the consumer research center at the Conference Board.
So between 1991 and 1994, confidence zigzagged up and down. Twice during 1992, a year after the recovery had begun, confidence dipped as low as it had been during the recession. And in early 2003, a year after growth had resumed following the 2001 recession, consumer confidence fell to a far lower level than it ever reached during the recession.
The gap between perception and economic growth this time around also has to do with jobs. Employers are simply not creating them fast enough to instill optimism. On top of that, political brinkmanship over the debt ceiling in Washington, the Standard & Poor's downgrading of the United States credit rating in August, and vast swings in the stock market have rocked confidence.
In fact, stock market volatility may be playing a larger role in the consumer mind-set than it has in the past. After Black Monday in 1987, when the Dow fell more than 22 percent in one day, the University of Michigan/Reuters index of consumer expectations, which records how consumers feel about their economic futures, fell just 7.7 points, said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. Since May of this year, that index has fallen more than 20 points.
And let's face it, even at 2.5 percent growth in gross domestic product, no one would call that firing on all cylinders. The amount of time it is taking to recover from the financial crisis is throwing everyone.
"This recession, followed by sluggish recovery, is not the experience of pretty much anyone today," Mr. Shepherdson said. "So for all intents and purposes nobody in America has any experience for an economy behaving like this. Economists don't even understand it."
He added: "So if people don't really understand what's going on in the economy, how can they frame reasonable expectations of where it's going?"

        
'Better Spirits,' Especially for the Better-Off
        
Consumers Are Still Glum
        
Back to Where We Began. Finally.
        
What's Behind the Lack of Confidence
        
Worsening Attitudes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (85%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); EURO CRISIS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RETAIL SALES (62%); TSUNAMIS (50%) consumer confidence; Gross Domestic Product; The Conference Board; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; Conference Board

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%) Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1214 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: How a Sonnet Made a Statue the 'Mother of Exiles'

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: The words of a fourth-generation American helped transform the original meaning of the Statue of Liberty into a beacon for those arriving in America for the first time. 

 BODY:
When the Goddess of Liberty was given to the United States, its donor's agenda was to burnish France's republican roots after the oppressive reign of Napoleon III and to celebrate the two nations' commitment to the principles of liberty. 
The only immigrants mentioned at the dedication in 1886 were the "illustrious descendants of the French nobility" who fought on behalf of the United States against Britain during the American Revolution.
But it was the words of a fourth-generation American whose father was a wealthy sugar refiner and whose great-great-uncle welcomed George Washington to Newport, R.I., that almost single-handedly transformed the monumental statue in New York Harbor into the "Mother of Exiles" that would symbolically beckon generations of immigrants. 
Emma Lazarus's poem only belatedly became synonymous with the Statute of Liberty, whose 125th birthday as a gift from France will be celebrated on Friday by the National Park Service. 
Lazarus's "New Colossus," with its memorable appeal to "give me your tired, your poor," was commissioned for a fund-raising campaign by artists and writers to pay for the statue's pedestal. 
But while the poem was critically acclaimed - the poet James Russell Lowell wrote that he liked it "much better than I like the Statue itself" because it "gives its subject a raison d'etre which it wanted before quite as much as it wants a pedestal" - it was not even mentioned at the dedication ceremony. 
Finally in 1903, after relentless lobbying by a friend of Lazarus who was descended from Alexander Hamilton, himself an immigrant, it was "affixed to the pedestal as an ex post facto inscription," the art historian Marvin Trachtenberg wrote.
"Gradually, thereafter, the awareness spread not only of the significance of the lines of the poem but also of the significance of the aspect of national tradition it expressed," another historian, Oscar Handlin, wrote. "Liberty was not simply the bond between ancient allies; nor was it only the symbol of liberal ideas of justice and freedom; it was also the motive force that had peopled the wilderness and made the country that emerged what it was."
Barry Moreno, a historian of the statue for the National Park Service, recalled that it "was never built for immigrants." 
"It was," he recalled, "built to pay tribute to the United States of America, the Declaration of Independence, American democracy, and democracy throughout the world. It honored the end of slavery, honored the end of all sorts of tyranny and also friendship between France and America." 
Only later, he added, "letters were written home, word of mouth, taught people that you would see this wonderful goddess in New York Harbor when you arrived in America to welcome you."
"And she became really famous among immigrants," he recalled. "And it was really immigrants that lifted her up to a sort of a glory that was probably before America really fully embraced her."
Lazarus, who popularized that "wonderful goddess," accepted the commission only begrudgingly - few poets relish the idea of writing on demand. But she was stirred by a wave of pogroms against Jews in Russia and by her regular visits to poor immigrants housed in temporary shelters on Wards Island. She would make "The New Colossus" the first entry in a compendium of poems she anthologized shortly before her death from Hodgkin's disease at 38 in 1887.
The poem went unmentioned in her obituary in The New York Times, but it appeared in a brief article in 1903 when the plaque was dedicated. (An exhibition on Lazarus, the "Poet of Exiles," opens Wednesday at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in Lower Manhattan.A manuscript of the poem is at the Center for Jewish History.)
"Emma Lazarus was the first American to make any sense of this statue,'' said Esther Schor, an English professor at Princeton and author of a biography titled "Emma Lazarus."
"Conceived by the French statesman Edouard Rene de Laboulaye, the statue was to propound the values of the French Revolution, in a sort of end-run around the repressive Second Empire of Napoleon III," Professor Schor said. "But Americans were so unmoved and uninterested that it was hard to raise money simply to build a pedestal to support it." 
For Lazarus, who wrote the sonnet in 1883 having seen only the torch when it was on display for a fund-raising drive in Madison Square Park, "it was a moment of moral and spiritual recovery, after her attempts to raise money to benefit the Russian-Jewish refugees of 1881-82 had largely fallen on deaf ears," Professor Schor said. 
Instead of retreating, she broadened her appeal to all immigrants, Professor Schor said. For her "the statue was a special kind of mother - a 'mother of exiles' - a mother whose mission is not to reproduce herself, but rather to adopt the abandoned, the orphaned, the persecuted," she said.
"She's tender and accepting," Professor Schor said, "but also fiercely protective, and her iconoclastic message smashes the icons of enlightenment and imperialism."
The sonnet would survive periodic efforts to excise her reference to "wretched refuse" and would become enshrined in the political lexicon in the 1930s as an anthem for Americans who, with war again threatening in Europe, lobbied to reverse anti-immigration quotas that had been imposed a decade earlier.
 "The irony is that the statue goes on speaking, even when the tide turns against immigration - even against immigrants themselves, as they adjust to their American lives,'' Professor Schor said. "You can't think of the statue without hearing the words Emma Lazarus gave her.'' 

        
Study Finds That Immigrants Are Central to Long Island Economy
        
After Mysterious Delay, Mysterious Approval of Kurdish Advocate's Visa
        
Joyeux Anniversaire (un peu tot), Lady Liberty
        
'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In
        
Love Blessed by Lady Liberty Lives On

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); HISTORY (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); WRITERS (73%); ART HISTORY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); SLAVERY (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Emma Lazarus; Give Me Your Tired Your Poor; Immigration; Statue of Liberty; The New Colossus; Lazarus, Emma; Immigration and Emigration; National Park Service; New York Harbor; Highlights; Local History

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%) National Park Service

PERSON: Lazarus, Emma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (91%) New York Harbor

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1215 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: The Truth Has A Well-Known, Well, You Know

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Whining about Obama, again. 

 BODY:
Greg Sargent takes us to Paul Ryan's latest speech, in which Ryan expresses outrage over what President Obama is saying:
Just last week, the President told a crowd in North Carolina that Republicans are in favor of, quote, "dirtier air, dirtier water, and less people with health insurance." Can you think of a pettier way to describe sincere disagreements between the two parties on regulation and health care? 
Just for the record: why is this petty? Why is it anything but a literal description of GOP proposals to weaken environmental regulation and repeal the Affordable Care Act? 
I mean, to the extent that the GOP has a coherent case on environmental regulation, it is that the economic payoff from weaker regulation would more than compensate for the dirtier air and water. Is anyone really claiming that less regulation won't mean more pollution?
And Republicans have not proposed anything that would make up for the loss of the measures in the ACA that would lead to more people being insured. Let me also point out that whatever else you think of it, Romneycare -- which is essentially the same as the ACA -- clearly has sharply reduced the number of uninsured people in Massachusetts.
So Ryan is outraged,outraged, that Obama is offering a wholly accurate description of his party's platform.
Let me add that this illustrates a point that many commenters here don't seem to get: criticism of policy proposals is not the same thing as ad hominem attacks. If I say that Paul Ryan's mother was a hamster and his father smelt of elderberries, that's ad hominem. If I say that his plan would hurt millions of people and that he's not being honest about the numbers, that's harsh, but not ad hominem.
And you really have to be somewhat awed when people who routinely accuse Obama of being a socialist get all weepy over him saying that eliminating protections against pollution would lead to more pollution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (73%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1216 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Wednesday Reading: HPV Vaccine Endorsed for Boys

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Panel endorses HPV vaccine for boys, low-income graduates get student loan relief, how Rick Perry's tax plan would affect you and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Panel endorses HPV vaccine for boys. (National)
        
Poll finds deep distrust of government. (National)
        
Low-income graduates to get student-loan relief. (National)
        
Ketchup moves upmarket. (Business)
        
Future of solar and windpower depends on government. (Energy)
        
How Rick Perry's tax plan would affect you. (Economix)
        
Japanese cars dominate Consumer Reports reliability report. (Wheels)
        
Nextdoorkeeps social networking in the neighborhood. (Bits)
        
Charging your devices through solar power. (Gadgetwise)
        
A new breed of injury in young athletes. (Well)
        
An unnecessary measles outbreak. (Motherlode)
        
The next death-with-dignity battleground. (The New Old Age)
        
Bikes, brews and B&Bs in Madison, Wisc. (Frugal Traveler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (91%); VACCINES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); MEASLES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%) Today in Your Money

PERSON: RICK PERRY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1217 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: A Fierce Battle Ahead for the House

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Could control of the House of Representatives really flip back to the Democrats next year? 

 BODY:
Could control of the House of Representatives really flip back to the Democrats next year? 
Just over a year from Election Day, and with the presidential race seizing most of the political spotlight, Congressional strategists for the Democratic Party are hinting that it just might.
More than 100 Democratic candidates from more than 60 districts in 36 states will gather in Washington on Wednesday for a day of in-house discussions, training and boosterism. 
Democratic officials say the gathering is evidence of the enthusiastic response they have gotten as they recruit candidates. They say the sheer number of candidates gives them a better than even chance of winning a net gain of 25 seats to take back control.
"We've put the House in play," declared Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "I've never guaranteed to anyone that we will take the House back in 2012. I am guaranteeing to everyone that it will be razor close."
Republican officials in charge of House campaigns next year express confidence that their party will withstand whatever efforts the Democrats put forth.
They say the Democrats face numerous obstacles to regaining a majority that would oust House Speaker John A. Boehner and reinstate Representative Nancy Pelosi in her old job.
Redistricting in many states that were controlled by Republican legislatures have made the going tougher for some Democratic incumbents. Several Democratic incumbents have announced their retirements. And President Obama's political struggles are making it a tougher environment for members from his party.
"The biggest vulnerability for everyone on this list is that they all fully support President Obama's job-destroying agenda," a spokeswoman for the National Republican Campaign Committee said.
The dueling assessments of the year ahead are an early indication of what's at stake in the Congressional elections. Democrats are eager to retake the House in part as a buffer against the possibility that they could lose the Senate - and maybe the White House. Republicans salivate at the possibility of winning everything in 2012.
The House races will not fully engage for months. Many of the Democratic candidates who will arrive in Washington on Wednesday will be running against each other in primaries next year. But national officials in both parties are eager to establish an early narrative about which way the political fortunes are blowing.
Mr. Israel cited recent fund-raising numbers which showed that the Democratic committee he heads has out-raised his Republican counterparts by $4 million in the last quarter. He also pointed to two recent public opinion surveys that suggest that Americans are more likely to say they would vote for a Democratic Congress over a Republican one. 
"As a result of the buyer's remorse that has set in, House Democrats are ahead in most of the generic polls," Mr. Israel said.
To counter that impression, officials at the Republican committee pointed to races in Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio and Texas, where Democratic incumbents are running in districts that are much more solidly Republican than they were before redistricting took place in those states.
"It's making it that much harder for them," said Paul Lindsay, the communications director for the committee.
But Mr. Lindsay conceded that there are also a number of vulnerable Republican lawmakers who will need defending against the Democratic efforts. He said that Republicans have set up something called the "Patriot Program," which will aim to provide money and support to those candidates.
"These are swing districts where obviously they are going to have races," Mr. Lindsay said. He said those lawmakers - who already include Representatives Charles Bass and Frank Guinta in New Hampshire and Lou Barletta and Patrick Meehan in Pennsylvania - will get the help they need.
So who's really got the advantage? 
It is always harder to win back a majority in Congress than it is to hold one. And with the economy struggling and Mr. Obama falling in the polls, it's a tough environment for Democrats to make major gains.
But in the end, it remains a numbers game. There are plenty of Republicans who won their seats in the wave of discontent that drove incumbents out of office in 2010. Now, the Republican lawmakers are the incumbents, and they face the anger that is still out there.
Democratic officials say the Congressional hopefuls who arrive in Washington on Wednesday will participate in a reception for the committee's "Women LEAD" program and will attend policy discussions on economics, job creation and national security. Later in the day, they will have "media training" with Anita Dunn, a veteran Democratic strategist who recently served as the White House communications director.
But those candidates hoping to run as Washington outsiders are not likely to linger in the capital city for too long.
"My guess," said Mr. Israel, "is they will be leaving skid marks on Washington to get back home and campaign."

        
2012 Could Be Tiebreaker of Last 2 Cycles
        
Democrats Can't Afford Mistakes Like McCaskill's Plane
        
Palin's Impact on 2012 Remains Elusive
        
Best Political Quotes of the Holiday Weekend
        
The Problem With Obama's Re-Election Pitch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%) 2010; 2012; Congress; Democrats; Elections; House of Representatives; redistricting; Republicans; Obama, Barack; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Israel, Steve; The White House

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%) Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVE ISRAEL (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1218 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Anxiety

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
America's distrust of government is at its highest level ever, with the latest New York Times/CBS News poll revealing a deep sense of economic anxiety hanging over the nation. The combustible climate has provided an opening for protest movements like Occupy Wall Street, and almost half of the public thinks the sentiments behind it represent the views of most Americans, Jeff Zeleny and Megan Thee-Brenan report.

        
A new report from the Congressional Budget Office shows that the top 1 percent of earnershave more than doubled their share of the nation's income over the last three decades, Robert Pear reports. The findings -- which also show that government policy has become less redistributive since the late 1970s -- are likely to figure prominently in the political fight over how to revive the economy, create jobs and lower the federal debt.

        
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas unveiled a plan on Tuesday to replace the graduated income tax with a 20 percent flat rate, in addition to granting a major tax cut for the wealthy, Richard A. Oppel Jr. reports. In proposing what he called "bold reform" that could trim Social Security and Medicare benefits for many, Mr. Perry is also advocating potentially sweeping changes in entitlement programs at a time when polling shows many Americans want to see higher - not lower - taxes on the wealthy.
        
President Obama will announce new programs Wednesday to lower monthly loan paymentsfor some students. Tamar Lewin writes that the administration is acting on an increasingly potent political issue: the high cost of college and the growing debt burden of student loans.
        
Lawyers for John Edwards will head to federal court here on Wednesday to argue that the government has exceeded the reach of federal election laws in its case against the former Democratic candidate for president, Kim Severson reports. The lawyers will ask a judge to dismiss charges that Mr. Edwards violated campaign finance laws by using money from two wealthy benefactors to support his pregnant mistress during his run for the presidency in 2008.
Around the Web 

        
House and Senate leaders from both parties are taking a more active role in talks with the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
President Obama will return to the White House after giving a speech on his jobs bill in Denver.

        
The Early Word: Infiltration
        
The Early Word: Piecemeal
        
The Early Word: Talk and Tone
        
The Early Word: Combative
        
The Early Word: Foiled

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CAUCUSES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); LAWYERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); JUDGES (63%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1219 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Weigh In on Health Care Law

BYLINE: REED ABELSON


HIGHLIGHT: The trade group for insurers files a legal brief on the health care law. 

 BODY:
The health insurance industry is urging the Supreme Court to decide as quickly as it can whether the federal health care law is, in fact, constitutional and to consider what other parts of the law should be struck down if the individual mandate does not pass muster.
America's Health Insurance Plans, a Washington, D.C., trade group, filed its supporting brief on Tuesday about the case. The group represents the nation's health insurance companies, many of which oppose crucial provisions of the Affordable Care Act signed into law by President Obama last year.
The group argued that insurers need to know as soon as possible if the new law will be upheld. because businesses need to "make and implement numerous critical decisions now to ensure their ability to comply as requirements come into effect in the coming years."
Many of the law's most sweeping provisions go into effect in 2014. The Obama administration says the law is constitutional and has asked the Supreme Court to hear the case quickly. Several lower courts have issued differing opinions on the law, which was challenged in court by many states.
Right now, the insurers say they don't know if the whole law will be struck down or just parts of it or whether all of the legislation will be deemed constitutional. "All of this paralyzing uncertainty-among health plans, employers, government regulators and others - underscores the vital need for a prompt and conclusive resolution of the constitutional challenge to the individual mandate. AHIP therefore respectfully urges the court to grant review of that issue and to resolve it this term," the insurers say.
The insurers also say that without the individual mandate, which would require people to buy insurance, the law is essentially unworkable. They point out that there are concerns over adverse selection, where only the people who think they need coverage buy insurance, and cite numerous examples of failed efforts by the states.
"All of that evidence underscores the very real likelihood that implementation of ACA's market reforms in the absence of the individual mandate would confound the legislation's central goal of increasing the availability of affordable health care coverage. Congress, moreover, enacted the individual mandate in conjunction with its market reforms because it was acutely aware of the widespread difficulties that had arisen from the efforts of states to implement similar insurance market reforms without the economic counterbalance of an individual mandate," the insurers say.
Is the individual mandate constitutional? If the Supreme Court strikes it down, should the rest of the health care law be allowed to stand? Should everyone be required to have health insurance?
An earlier version of this post misstated the position taken by America's Health Insurance Plans on the overall federal health legislation. It is not asking the court to consider striking down the law altogether, but seeking consideration as to whether other pieces of the law should be overturned if the individual mandate is ruled unconstitutional. 

        
Obama Pushes More Competition on Biologic Drugs
        
Study Finds Medicare Drug Plan Reduces Health Spending
        
This Week's Health Industry News
        
This Week's Health Industry News
        
Kaiser Permanente Opens Clinic in Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (94%); HEALTH CARE LAW (94%); INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%) America's Health Insurance Plans; health care law; individual mandate; Supreme Court; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Health and Human Services; Health Insurers

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (84%) Supreme Court

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1220 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Skelos and Baldwin Get in Each Other's Faces Over Taxes, via Twitter

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Two politically active Long Islanders took to the Internet to argue the merits of a millionaires' tax or, more precisely, to call each other names. 

 BODY:
The State Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, has faced ample criticism over his opposition to an income-tax surcharge on high-earning New Yorkers.
His latest adversary: the actor Alec Baldwin, who on Wednesday engaged in something of a Twitter feud with Mr. Skelos over the merits of the so-called millionaires' tax.
Their quarrel began on Tuesday, when Mr. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, appeared on a public radio program, "The Capitol Pressroom." As he has for months, Mr. Skelos insisted that continuing the surcharge would hurt the state's economy and compel wealthy residents to move elsewhere. (Mr. Skelos counts among his allies on the issue the state's Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo.)
Mr. Skelos, in the radio interview, took a poke at Mr. Baldwin, who is known for his liberal politics and has made it no secret that he might run for office someday. Mr. Baldwin visited Occupy Wall Street's encampment in Lower Manhattan last week, and word later surfaced that he had recently spent $11.7 million on a penthouse apartment in Greenwich Village.
"A lot of good things were accomplished in last year's budget fiscally, and we have to continue that way," Mr. Skelos said in the interview. "We can't be sidetracked. We can't be influenced by the Alec Baldwins of the world that are just buying a $17 million condo in Greenwich Village, and he's going to tell us that we should tax everybody else."
His remark quickly circulated on Twitter, where Mr. Baldwin has more than 478,000 followers and posts messages frequently. On Wednesday morning, he set his sights on Mr. Skelos, challenging him to release his tax returns. "I pay more in income txs in 1 yr than Skelos pays in 20," Mr. Baldwin wrote. "So what's his point?"
He even created a Skelos-themed hashtag, used on the site to track popular topics: #noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskelos.
Mr. Skelos - who lives in Rockville Centre, not far from Mr. Baldwin's hometown of Massapequa in Nassau County - found himself at a significant disadvantage on Twitter, where he posts messages less frequently and is followed by fewer than 1,000 people. But later Wednesday, he took to the site for his own defense, saying that Mr. Baldwin was a hypocrite for appearing in commercials for Capital One and writing that if Mr. Baldwin thought Mr. Skelos was wrong about the surcharge, "He must think Gov Cuomo is too since he agrees with me."
Mr. Baldwin was not done. Jabbing Mr. Skelos for his numerical inaccuracy in the radio appearance, Mr. Baldwin wrote, "If I had $17 million to spend on an apt, I'd use a big chunk of that to #defeatdeanskelos."
But Mr. Skelos at least won something on Wednesday: over the course of the day, the hubbub about his Twitter feud brought him at least a dozen new followers.
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Dean Skelos says I want your taxes to go up and not my own.
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:18:47 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
#noonelieslikedeanskelos
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:19:21 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
#noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskelos
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:20:11 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Only a Nassau County Republian tool like Dean Skelos could drag my name into a debate on state income tax.
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:21:47 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
I pay more in income txs in 1 yr than Skelos pays in 20. So what's his point?
#noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskeloshttp://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:25:13 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
I challenge Dean Skelos 2 a Citizen's Responsibilities Contest.
Provide ur tax returns and personal itinerary for the past ten years.
Wed Oct 26 9:50:58 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Then let's see who has done more for their communities.
Wed Oct 26 9:51:29 via Alec Baldwin
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
If @AlecBaldwin thinks I'm wrong, he must think Gov Cuomo is too since he agrees with me u can't raise taxes on businesses, working people.
Wed Oct 26 11:37:29 via Senator Dean Skelos
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
Hypocritical @AlecBaldwin rages against corporate greed yet is a paid spokesperson for corporate giant Cap One.
Wed Oct 26 12:18:54 via Senator Dean Skelos
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
@AlecBaldwin BTW, think Jack Donaghy gets together with Liz Lemon in the end.
Wed Oct 26 12:35:48 via Senator Dean Skelos
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
C'mon Dean Skelos!! You professional distorted of facts!!
Join me in a press conference.
And bring your tax returns!!
Wed Oct 26 1:17:25 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
If I had $17 million to spend on an apt, I'd use a big chunk of that to
#defeatdeanskelos
Wed Oct 26 2:07:14 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
@SenatorSkelos
I know some folks at the Wagner School when you're ready to brush up on tax policy.
#NYUisthebest
Wed Oct 26 2:38:21 via Alec Baldwin

        
'Occupy Albany' vs. 'Governor 1 Percent'
        
A Treat for Promptness, and Produce at City Hall
        
In Albany, More Clamor Than Clarity
        
Plunge in Tax Revenue Widens State Deficit
        
Bloomberg Plays Down Impact of Albany Coup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); LIBERALISM (68%) Albany; Alec Baldwin; Dean G. Skelos; Dean Skelos; taxes; Baldwin, Alec; Skelos, Dean G; High Net Worth Individuals; Income Tax; Capital One Financial Corporation; Occupy Wall Street; Twitter; New York State; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%) Capital One Financial Corporation; Occupy Wall Street; Twitter

TICKER: Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (94%); ANDREW CUOMO (53%) Baldwin, Alec; Skelos, Dean G

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



1221 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Bloomberg Welcomes Yelp to New York

BYLINE: JENNA WORTHAM


HIGHLIGHT: Yelp is the latest Silicon Valley tech company to put down roots in New York, following in the footsteps of Twitter, Facebook and Google. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, Mayor Michael Bloomberg went to Union Square to welcome Yelp, the latest Silicon Valley company to put down roots in Manhattan. 
"This is the latest proof that New York is on its way to becoming a Number One digital hub," Mr. Bloomberg said, during a press conference held at the Yelp offices. Yelp follows in the footsteps of Accel Partners, a noted venture capital firm, and Twitter, which opened its New York offices earlier this month. Facebook and Google already have well-established presences in Manhattan.
Mr. Bloomberg said that in the past year alone, the number of jobs available in the technology sector jumped 30 percent. Mr. Bloomberg cracked jokes about the Yelp offices, which have a kitchen rigged with a tap that dispenses local beer and is outfitted with software that lets employees control the keg with their iPads.
He said he hoped that start-ups such as Yelp, which employs roughly 80 people in New York, will help improve the job market and economy of New York.
"Our long-term digital future looks promising," he said.
Yelp has had a small footprint in New York since 2007, said Jeremy Stoppelman, the chief executive and founder of the company. But the expansive office, located at 104 Fifth Avenue, in the same building where Apple is rumored to be leasing space for its mobile advertising business, will be Yelp's official New York headquarters. About 10 percent of the company is based in New York. In total, Yelp has grown to more than 900 employees, the company said.
Mr. Stoppelman said that New York was one of Yelp's most active cities and he looked forward to expanding the company's relationships with its users and businesses that are on the site.
"Job growth in this country relies on growing and supporting local businesses," he said. 

        
Yelp Hires a C.F.O. on the Road to Going Public
        
Google Takes On Yelp With New Mobile App
        
Google Searching Gets More Local
        
At Google, Mayer Takes a New Job
        
Pay Full Price for a Meal? That's So Yesterday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TRENDS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); BEER & ALE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%) New York Tech; Yelp; Bloomberg, Michael R; Stoppelman, Jeremy; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Networking (Internet); Phones and Mobile Devices; Silicon Valley; social networking; Start-ups

COMPANY: YELP! INC (85%); GOOGLE INC (84%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Yelp

TICKER: YELP (NYSE) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Stoppelman, Jeremy

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



1222 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Can Islamism and Feminism Mix?

BYLINE: By MONICA MARKS. 
Monica Marks is a doctoral student in Middle Eastern Studies at Oxford University.

 BODY:
Oxford, England
TINY Tunisia, where a fruit seller's suicide sparked the Arab Spring, held its first free elections on Sunday. Over 90 percent of registered voters turned out, far exceeding expectations. Lines of beaming blue-fingered voters poured out of polling places, proudly posting photos of their freshly inked hands on Facebook.
Yet despite Tunisia's election day success story, many observers fear that democracy could unleash an Islamist tidal wave. The Islamist party Ennahda, banned as a terrorist group under the dictator Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, won approximately 40 percent of votes -- a resounding plurality. 
A small but increasingly vocal minority of secular Tunisians are predicting that an Islamist-dominated national assembly will reverse key pieces of civil rights legislation, including those recognizing the right to abortion and prohibiting polygamy.
Tunisia's secular feminists, many of whom are urban admirers of French-style secularism, see Ennahda women as unwitting agents of their own domination. Although Ennahda openly supports Tunisia's 1956 Code of Personal Status -- arguably the most progressive piece of women's rights legislation in the Arab world -- its critics accuse the party as a whole of purveying a ''double discourse,'' adopting a soft, tolerant line when speaking to francophone secularists but preaching a rabidly conservative message when addressing its rural base.
Rather than developing strong platforms of their own, secular opposition parties like Ettajdid have focused their campaign efforts almost exclusively on fear mongering, raising the specter of an Iranian-style Islamist takeover and the imposition of Shariah, the legal code of Islam. Daniel Pipes and other Western commentators have joined the fray, urging Washington to stand against the ''blight'' of Ennahda and labeling Islamism ''the civilized world's greatest enemy.''
But it is far too early to sound such alarms. As a result of their active participation in party politics, Ennahda women actually stand to gain more from Sunday's election than any other group.
In May, Tunisia passed an extremely progressive parity law, resembling France's, which required all political parties to make women at least half of their candidates. As a long-repressed party, Ennahda enjoyed more credibility than other groups. It also had a greater number of female candidates to run than any other party, and strongly supported the parity law as a result.
Many Tunisian women developed a political consciousness in reaction to Mr. Ben Ali's severe oppression of Ennahda in the 1990s. While their husbands, brothers and sons were in jail -- often for reasons as simple as attending dawn prayers -- these women discovered that they had a personal stake in politics and the strength to stand alone as heads of families. When the party was legalized in March, it found a widespread base of public sympathy and grass-roots support.
As the big winner in Sunday's elections, Ennahda will send the largest single bloc of female lawmakers to the 217-member constituent assembly. The question now is how Ennahda women will govern. Are they unwitting dupes of Islamic patriarchy, or are they merely feminist activists who happen to wear head scarves?
After interviewing 46 female activists and candidates from Ennahda, I found that many turned to politics after experiencing job discrimination, arrests, or years in prison merely because they chose to wear the head scarf or because their families were suspected of Ennahda sympathies. For some of them, this election is as much about freedom of religious expression as anything else.
''I have a master's degree in physics but I wasn't allowed to teach for years because of this,'' said a 43-year-old woman named Nesrine, tugging the corner of her floral-print hijab, a veil banned under Mr. Ben Ali but legalized since his departure. According to Mounia Brahim and Farida Labidi, 2 of the 13 members of Ennahda's Executive Council, the party welcomes strong, critical women in its ranks. ''Look at us,'' Ms. Brahim said. ''We're doctors, teachers, wives, mothers -- sometimes our husbands agree with our politics, sometimes they don't. But we're here and we're active.''
These women are not likely to oppose women's rights legislation. Ennahda women are, first and foremost, Tunisians. They are well educated, and their brand of Islamism, like Tunisian society as a whole, is relaxed and comparatively progressive. Since the 1950s, Tunisian women have enjoyed greater legal protections than their counterparts in other Arab states.
Tunisians are currently seeking to reconcile this legacy of largely French-inspired civil rights policies with the aspirations of a devout public. Ennahda's challenge lies in striking the right balance.
To do so, the party has explicitly declared that it will emulate Turkey's governing Justice and Development Party, known as the A.K.P., which has cracked down on corruption, involved women as equal political partners, and delivered stunning economic growth rates.
Replicating this model of moderation and pious prosperity will be hard work in Tunisia, a country with staggering levels of unemployment and 25 percent illiteracy. Turkish-style democracy may look less progressive in Tunis -- where angry protests recently broke out at a screening of the film ''Persepolis'' -- than in Istanbul, where bars and dance clubs dot the city's streets.
And there is a chance, of course, that democratic gains for women could be reversed. As history has shown in America, France, Algeria and Iran, revolutionary movements don't always lead to greater gender equality or more inclusive politics. Women often fight fearlessly in such liberation struggles only to be sidelined when new national governments form.
Tunisian women, however, are well poised to avoid this fate. Tunisia has done an excellent job of including women in its transitional institutions thus far. This is especially true when viewed in comparison with Egypt, where the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces recently banned women from heading any party lists.
Ennahda has thus far used its newfound political heft to stimulate rather than stifle women's participation in Tunisian politics. Its activists are presenting a potentially more accessible model of ''Islamist feminism'' to many rural and socially conservative Tunisian women than that of secularist parties.
Vocal, active, and often veiled, they are comfortable with the language of piety and politics. Despite the fear mongering of secular skeptics and Western pundits, their actions and aspirations are far more reminiscent of Turkey's A.K.P. than Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WOMEN (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); POLYGAMY (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); TERRORISM (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUNISIA (98%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1223 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; COMMENTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 488 words

 BODY:
A selection of recent postings from readers of the Home section, drawn from nytimes.com/home.
Becoming Lean and Green
Re ''Eco Meets the Economy,'' by Steven Kurutz (Oct. 13): 
Instead of investing in products that are more expensive and of dubious benefit (the terms ''green'' and ''all natural'' often have little substance), try buying less. Cut out packaged foods. Stop buying meat. Make your own cleaning products. Buy secondhand. Not only will you save money and do less environmental harm, but you may also find that this type of consumerism fosters health and expands culinary horizons. Our tendency to fight our poor buying habits with more buying is not going to solve the problem; instead, let's realize we can make do with a whole lot less.
ALANA SHARP
Albuquerque
The entire green movement is but a Band-Aid on a bullet wound. Even if every person in the rich world bought green products, drove hybrids and installed solar panels, it wouldn't make a meaningful difference in climate change. What we need is bold legislative action to make industry more responsible for harming the environment, and investments in research for green alternatives to dirtier current technologies. The green-products movement in its current form is just another way for someone to make a buck off the guilt over climate change felt by many good people out there.
GEOFF GLISSON
New York
This article may apply to the bottom 99 percent of the United States population, but not everyone is so glum. Among the top 1 percent, the biggest ''green'' choice is the quantity of jade going into the bathroom on the new yacht. According to Yachtworld.com, sales of yachts measuring at least 55 feet were up 44 percent through August 2011 compared with the same eight-month period in 2010, as measured by the dollar value of transactions.
ERIC OLSON
Stevens Point, Wis.
Shade-grown fair-trade coffee, $9 to $12 a pound -- yikes. But we do it anyway. Fortunately, it is also way better than grocery store coffee, and life is way too short to drink lousy coffee. We make up for it in other ways: using one car (one bikes to work, the other telecommutes); carefully controlling the thermostat, blinds and windows to minimize heating and cooling costs; and taking good care of things so they last longer. And fixing rather than buying new. ELLEN PAUL
Bethesda, Md.
This article perpetuates the notion that ''green'' is the same as ''organic.'' They are not the same. Green means things that are good for the environment (shopping locally, for example). Organic means buying things that are good for human health (pesticide-free vegetables, for example). Imagine cutting down 1,000 acres of virgin rain forest in equatorial Africa to grow bananas with no pesticides. The food would be organic, but it would be devastating for the environment by destroying virgin rain forest and requiring lots of fossil fuel to transport the bananas to New York.
JEREMY KILLAM
New York

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD MIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GREEN MARKET (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (72%); CLEANERS (70%); CURRENCIES (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); COFFEE MARKETS (61%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1224 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: More Trading Helps Nasdaq Meet Forecast

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Nasdaq OMX Group, the exchange operator, posted third-quarter earnings on Wednesday that matched estimates, as an increase in trading helped its revenue.
Profit increased 8.9 percent to $110 million, or 61 cents a share. Revenue excluding rebates and clearing and other fees rose 18 percent from the year-earlier quarter to $438 million. 
Excluding some items, earnings were 67 cents a share, matching the average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Stock trading volume on United States exchanges surged 14 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier as investors speculated that the European debt crisis was spreading and the United States would fall into a recession.
Higher trading volume brings in more revenue for exchanges, which charge fees for transactions conducted. Before the third quarter, Nasdaq OMX posted five consecutive quarters of better-than-forecast earnings.
Nasdaq OMX's share of stock trading in the United States rose to 22.4 percent in the third quarter from 22 percent in the three months ending June 30, the company said. In options, the share was 26.4 percent, down from 28.9 percent in the second quarter. European stock and derivatives trading volume both rose, Nasdaq said.
Revenue from transactions rose 26 percent to $211 million from the third quarter of 2010, according to today's statement. Trading revenue increased across the board, in United States and European equities and both areas' derivatives.
Operating expenses less special items increased 15 percent to $234 million last quarter on acquisition costs and higher compensation, Nasdaq said. For 2011, they will total $915 million to $925 million, excluding $75 million in one-time costs, the company said. In July, Nasdaq OMX projected $910 million to $925 million, excluding $40 million in costs.
The exchange operator approved a buyback plan of as much as $300 million this month, after dropping a bid in May for the larger rival NYSE Euronext's equities, options and listings businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); DEBT CRISIS (55%)

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (84%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (53%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (84%); NYX (PAR) (53%); NYX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1225 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: For Children's Sake, Taking to the Streets

BYLINE: By HELAINE OLEN

 BODY:
MALKA LUBELSKI marched for economic justice last Sunday dressed as Minnie Mouse.
In a pink costume with white polka dots and black mouse ears, she circled Zuccotti Park, the epicenter of the Occupy Wall Street protests, carrying a homemade sign that read, ''From the very young, the very old, we are the 99%.''
It would have been one more bit of street theater, except that Malka is 4, an age when girls are generally thought to be more interested in Disney characters than protest marches. 
While her father, Abraham Lubelski, publisher of NY Arts magazine, talked about his decision to take Malka and her 1 1/2-year-old sister, Josepha, to the scene so they could ''see real human needs,'' Malka concerned herself with the more mundane needs of her baby sister, who had been sitting in her stroller munching contentedly on a vanilla ice cream cone till the ice cream tumbled onto her sweater.
''Dad,'' Malka interrupted, pointing to her younger sibling.
And so it goes in the second month of Occupy Wall Street, where children are becoming an increasing presence as parents try to seize a ''teachable moment'' to enlighten them on matters ranging from income inequality to the right to protest.
The park's makeshift collective library has a children's section, complete with a copy of ''Harry Potter,'' Beverly Cleary titles and Meg Cabot's ''Holiday Princess.'' A group called Parents for Occupy Wall Street, headed by Kirby Desmarais, a Brooklyn mother and record label owner, even organized a sleepover at the park for more than 80 parents and children on a recent weekend night. (The families had to be moved at dawn to make way for new police lines and barricades.) Spin-off parent groups have sprung up in other cities like Denver and Seattle.
But most mothers and fathers bring their children on their own. Some recall marching in antiwar protests in the 1960s and '70s, and say they would like to show their children what it means to be part of a large movement advocating for social change. Those with babies and toddlers admit that the children are unlikely to remember anything of their time at Zuccotti Park, but that they believe the children will one day appreciate that they were present.
''When he's older, I want him to know we cared enough to bring him down,'' said David McClelland, a resident of Clinton Hill in Brooklyn who came with his son, Franklin, 2.
For Stephen Belber, a screenwriter who is adapting Dana Spiotta's novel of 1970s left-wing activism gone awry, ''Eat the Document,'' Occupy Wall Street presents a unique opportunity to discuss his work with his two children, Clementine, 7, and Tobi, 11.
Clementine had questions. ''Are the people who are sleeping here poor?'' she asked, pointing to the tents and sleeping bags.
''They choose to be here,'' her father replied. ''They are upset because there are a few rich people and so many more poor people.''
Occupy Wall Street is hardly the first protest movement to include children. They were often present at civil rights marches, and more recently, boys and girls (complete with placards) have become a familiar presence at Tea Party events. There were children at Tahrir Square in Cairo, as well as at many other events that marked the Arab Spring.
A number of New York's independent progressive-minded schools, like St. Ann's in Brooklyn Heights, are encouraging their older students to visit Zuccotti Park. The Calhoun School on the Upper West Side has taken it a step further, with students from the upper school's photography and journalism classes assigned projects that require a visit to the Occupy Wall Street encampment.
''We see the city as a classroom, and we don't shy away from introducing our children to things that are controversial,'' said Steve Nelson, the head of the school. ''We want them to learn to examine and think critically about what is going on around them in the world.''
Child therapists are divided on the appropriateness of taking children to the protest. Susan Bartell, a psychologist who writes for Babycenter.com, advises caution for the parents of children younger than 14. ''There are kids who can go to a shelter at Thanksgiving and help serve a meal,'' she said, ''but there are kids who are traumatized by it.''
Madeline Levine, a psychologist, author of ''The Price of Privilege'' and a prominent critic of upper-middle-class child-rearing practices, disagreed. ''We've done a lousy job of teaching civics in the country,'' she said. ''Everything is cast in terms of what it does for your resume. There is something vital in being part of a group or a community.
''There isn't a family that isn't impacted by what's going on right now,'' she added.
That is true of Samantha Cassidy, a photo editor and knitwear designer from Brooklyn, who came to Zuccotti Park with her son, Cooper, 7. ''I recently got laid off, that's why I'm here,'' she said.
Others said that they are simply so passionate about the cause, they've brought their children too many times to count. ''I liken it to forcing them to go to church,'' said Rivka Gewirtz Little, an organizer of the 99 Percent School, another group for parents who support the Occupy Wall Street movement. ''It's important for them to learn your beliefs.''
Ms. Little's daughters, ages 6 and 12, have been to Zuccotti Park so often that the protesters' communication system is now a factor in their playtime at home.
''We had a bunch of kids in the house the other day and no one was listening to each other,'' Ms. Little said, ''and my older daughter yelled, 'Mike check!' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INSIDE EDUCATION: Above, Mark Reid and Rebecca Reid came to Occupy Wall Street from Exeter, Pa., with their three children. Left, Stacy Curry of Manhattan with her daughter Catie at the protest's makeshift library. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (75%); STREET ART (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1226 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Workers Approve Pact That Adds 2,100 U.S. Jobs

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The last of the major automaker labor contracts was ratified on Wednesday when officials of the United Automobile Workers union announced that employees at Chrysler had approved a four-year agreement. 
About 55 percent of Chrysler's 23,000 hourly workers voted in favor of the contract, which promises 2,100 new jobs in the United States, according to union officials.
Chrysler workers will receive smaller bonuses than workers at General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, both of which are more profitable and further along on their turnaround plans.
Chrysler workers will get $3,500 signing bonuses, but only half of that sum will be paid upon ratification. The rest is due when the company is more financially stable in 2012.
By comparison, next month Ford workers will get their full $6,000 signing bonuses and G.M. employees will receive their entire $5,000 payments. ''It's not everything our members deserve, but we did the best we could in these uncertain times,'' said General Holiefield, the U.A.W.'s chief negotiator with Chrysler.
The voting at Chrysler was closer than at Ford or G.M. On Wednesday, union leaders had to decide whether the overall agreement could be ratified even though a majority of the company's skilled-trades employees had voted against it.
Only 44 percent of the skilled-trades workers, which total about 5,000 electricians and other specialized employees, approved the deal. But the union said their opposition was based on its overall economic terms, and not any provisions specifically related to their jobs.
If those employees had voted against the contract because of changes to skilled-trade work rules, those issues might have been subject to arbitration.
''These reasons were predominantly economic and not unique to skilled trades members,'' the union said in a statement. ''Accordingly, the International Executive Board declared the agreements ratified.''
The U.A.W.'s president, Bob King, said that overall economic terms apply to all Chrysler workers, and the skilled-trades vote could not outweigh the votes of production workers.
''We went along with the majority,'' Mr. King said in a conference call with reporters. ''Fifty-five percent said they wanted the agreement ratified, so that's what we did.''
The ratification at Chrysler concludes labor talks that were considered critical to Detroit's future competitiveness. The negotiations were the first since G.M. and Chrysler received federal aid and went through bankruptcy in 2009.
The margins of victory at G.M. and Ford were larger than at Chrysler, which Mr. King attributed to concerns over bonuses.
''The money was a big, big issue, especially because they saw their sisters and brothers at G.M. and Ford got as lot more,'' Mr. King said of the relatively close Chrysler voting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Holiefield, left, a U.A.W. vice president, and Bob King, the president, at a news conference at Chrysler headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., as contract talks began in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); BONUS PAY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1227 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: How the Poll Was Conducted

 BODY:
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 19 through Oct. 25 with 445 adults throughout the United States who said they were currently out of work and looking for a job. 
Respondents to 25 polls by The Times and CBS News during the past two years were asked about their employment status. Callbacks to individuals who had reported unemployment were made during the October Times/CBS News national survey. Currently unemployed individuals were weighted so that the length of their unemployment matched figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The margin of sampling error for a sample of this size is plus or minus 5 percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results. In particular, the questions used by this poll and by the federal government to measure unemployment were similar but not identical.
Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1228 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Poe's Cottage, Weak and Weary No More

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
It was a poor man's house, with tiny rooms and low ceilings when Edgar Allan Poe lived there more than 160 years ago, when residing in what later became the Bronx meant breathing fresh country air.
Now this city-owned cottage, where Poe wrote the poems ''Annabel Lee'' and ''The Bells'' and the short story ''The Cask of Amontillado,'' is receiving the finishing touches of a nearly half-million dollar renovation. And while the official date to reopen the house after more than a year of work is still uncertain, school groups have started to visit the site, at the Grand Concourse and East Kingsbridge Road in the Fordham neighborhood, this week. The timing seems only fitting. October is the month of Poe's mysterious death, in 1849, and ends with Halloween, whose spirit is so expertly evoked by his memorably macabre stories like ''The Tell-Tale Heart,'' and ''The Pit and the Pendulum.'' (The Film Society Lincoln Center is capping its forthcoming Scary Movies series with a Halloween performance of ''Nevermore,'' Jeffrey Combs's one-man show about Poe.) 
What remains as tightly sealed as the crypt that imprisons Fortunato in ''The Cask'' is the Poe Park Visitors Center, which sits a stone's throw away in the adjacent playground and was completed this year. The iron-gray pavilion, with a V-shape roof (like the wingspan of a raven) and slate shingles to evoke feathers, was designed by the architect Toshiko Mori and is being promoted by the Bronx Historical Society as both a complement to the Poe house and ''a venue with boroughwide appeal.'' The new center will provide a space to show a video on Poe's life and offer some introductory exhibits before people head over for their cottage tour.
But neither the society, which helps operate the cottage with the city, nor the Parks Department, which paid $4.5 million for the visitor center, can afford to staff the new pavilion, said Angel Hernandez, an educator with the historical society. In the middle of the day last week its public bathrooms were locked with a handwritten note that said they were under repair. The sides of the pavilion were scratched, and vandals had begun the work of prying off the slate shingles.
Rather than the winged creature in Poe's famous poem, the visitors center brought to mind something more earthbound. ''Now it's an elephant on the complex,'' Mr. Hernandez said.
The society has applied for grants and to foundations and the State Legislature for financing, Mr. Hernandez said, but so far has had no luck in this harsh economic climate. The idea of selling paving stones bearing the names of donors, as was done in Tompkins Park in Manhattan, was rejected by the Parks Department. Until an agreement is reached on who has responsibility for operating the center, fund-raising proposals have been postponed.
Larry Scott Blackmon, a deputy parks commissioner, said, ''We are looking into the intricacies of managing the center.''
Before it closed for renovations, the cottage, which was built in 1812 and is the last remaining building in what used to be called Fordham Village, typically received some 10,000 to 12,000 visitors a year.
With the welcome center not yet opened, visitors must watch the video from some 20 metal folding chairs that crowd the cottage's upstairs bedroom. They learn that Poe, considered America's first lyric poet and the inventor of the modern detective story, moved to the former farmhouse in the summer of 1846 with his wife, Virginia, and her mother, Maria Clemm. He had married Virginia, his first cousin, in 1836 when she was just 13 years old.
By the time they moved to Fordham, she was suffering from tuberculosis, and Poe was bankrupt, having lost his savings in a magazine venture. His mother-in-law (and aunt) foraged in the neighboring fields for food. Virginia did not survive the winter, and contemporary visitors can see the tiny 8-by-8-foot room downstairs that contained the bed in which she died that January, in 1847.
Friends noted that Poe was crushed by her death and sat by her grave, despairing, for hours. The haunting verses of ''Annabel Lee,'' the last that Poe composed, relate how ''all the night-tide, I lie down by the side/Of my darling -- my darling -- my life and my bride/In her sepulchre there by the sea.''
Poe spent many of his days in the Bronx (then considered a part of Westchester County) wandering through the woods and by the river. St. John's College, now Fordham University, had opened just a few years before his arrival, and he frequently visited the first generation of Jesuits there, writing that they ''enjoyed smoking, drinking and playing cards, and they never discussed religion.''
Poe's fondness for alcohol was notorious, and one can imagine the clanging from the bell tower on campus, prompting him, after a night of drinking, to write, ''To the tolling of the bells/Of the bells, bells, bells, bells --/Bells, bells, bells -- .'' The university still has the very bell, stamped 1840, though some speculate it may have been another bell in New York that haunted Poe.
In October of 1849 the 40-year-old Poe was found in Baltimore, delirious and wearing another man's clothes. He was never coherent enough to explain what happened, and he died in a hospital a few days later.
Poe and the places he lived have inspired other writers. John Henry Boner, an editor and poet, wrote a poem titled ''Poe's Cottage at Fordham'' in 1889, that begins:
Here lived the soul enchanted
By melody of song;
Here dwelt the spirit haunted
By a demoniac throng.
More recent dwellers included a raccoon that had burrowed into a ceiling beam. The recent renovation fixed the damage, replaced rotting wood and worn window frames, thresholds and shingles. The outside has been freshly sanded and painted white with green clapboard shutters.
With the house newly refinished, one can see how this one-and-a-half-story dwelling might have served as a model for the one Poe himself wrote of in ''Landor's Cottage,'' his final short story: ''In fact nothing could well be more simple -- more utterly unpretending than this cottage. Its marvelous effect lay altogether in its artistic arrangement as a picture. I could have fancied, while I looked at it, that some eminent landscape-painter had imagined it with his brush.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Restoration work is nearing completion on Edgar Allan Poe's farmhouse on Grand Concourse.(C1)
 The Poe house, built about 1812, is the last remaining building in a part of the Bronx once called Old Fordham Village.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); HALLOWEEN (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); HORROR FILMS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1229 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: In High Schools, a Critical Lens on Food

BYLINE: By HANNAH WALLACE

 BODY:
A commercial for McDonald's fish sandwiches played in a classroom at Park Slope Collegiate one day last month as part of a class called the Science of Food. It was clear that many students had seen the ad -- several sang along with the jingle -- but this was the first time they had been asked to critique it.
''Who is the target audience for this ad?'' asked their teacher, Joni Tonda. 
''Us!'' yelled the 23 students, practically in unison.
Through the class, which is part of a new program being taught at 15 city high schools, students are becoming aware that they are part of a lucrative demographic, and they are learning how companies target them.
Media literacy is only one part of Ms. Tonda's lesson plan, which is based on a curriculum developed by a nonprofit group, FoodFight. The group's founders, Carolyn Cohen and Deborah Lewison-Grant, two former public school teachers, set out to change the way adolescents think about food. By one estimate, 35 percent of adolescents in the United States are overweight or obese.
Though there have been several recent attempts to improve school food and to plant edible gardens at public schools -- Michelle Obama's ''Let's Move'' campaign among them -- those efforts have largely been focused on elementary and junior high schools.
''High school students have been ignored in this conversation about the obesity epidemic,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''It's a serious health crisis.''
The lesson plan blends media literacy, politics, nutrition and cooking. Students learn how to evaluate food labels, to prepare nutritious and affordable meals, and to identify the political and economic forces that shape their diet. Some will visit urban farms, food co-ops and a 400-acre farm upstate.
Sarah Katz, one of the first teachers trained in the program, in August 2010, said the curriculum appealed to her because of its interdisciplinary nature and because it was not preachy.
''Telling kids what they should and shouldn't eat is not really effective,'' said Ms. Katz, who taught a class called Food for Thought at Essex Street Academy last spring. ''Teenagers don't do things because adults tell them to. They need to care and have enough information to make their own choices.''
A FoodFight course begins with a critical look at marketing campaigns. Some students react with outrage. ''Kids don't like to be played by corporations,'' Ms. Katz said. ''They want to make their own choices.''
At another point, the class discusses why some neighborhoods lack access to healthy, affordable food, an issue that resonates with students because many FoodFight classes are taught in poor neighborhoods.
Students keep a food journal and learn how lobbyists try to influence federal dietary recommendations.
In the lesson about advertising at Park Slope Collegiate, Ms. Tonda organized her students into small groups and asked them to create a slogan for a real or imagined food product. Three boys in the back of the class designed an energy bar called Pro-Fit. ''It's more than protein; it's Pro-Fit!'' their slogan read.
Takiyah Newton, a senior, said, ''I signed up for the class because I wanted to learn about the food we eat, and society and stuff.'' A highlight, she said, was ''learning about these companies and how they're tricking us.''
Ms. Tonda said she had seen some changes in students' behavior. After a lesson about the consequences of consuming too much sugar, Ms. Newton switched from McDonald's sweetened iced tea to a no-calorie drink, Ms. Tonda said, and now brings bottled water to class. Another student, affected by the images of a crowded chicken farm in the documentary ''Food Inc.,'' has asked her mother to stop buying meat from industrial producers.
Ms. Katz, at Essex Street Academy, was skeptical at first that her students would alter their diets. But when she quizzed parents, it became clear that habits were changing. One student said he had cut out sugar-sweetened beverages. ''His mom said, 'So that's why they're still sitting there in the fridge!' '' Ms. Katz said.
Before Brandon Rosales took the class last year, he drank a lot of soda and never thought about portion sizes. ''I would skip breakfast, eat a light lunch and then stuff myself at dinner,'' said Mr. Rosales, who acknowledged that he was overweight.
After his food journal revealed the unhealthy pattern, he began replacing juice and soda with water, he said, and started eating smaller meals. Since he took the class, he said, he has lost 10 pounds, and he continues to maintain the journal.
''Now my food journal looks clean,'' he said. ''My meals are good; I drink water. It's like a healthy person's journal.'' His family history provides some motivation. ''I have a family full of diabetics,'' he said. ''I want to live a happy life not having to put insulin in like my grandmas do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deborah Lewison-Grant, a founder of the nonprofit group FoodFight, wants to change the way adolescents think about food. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); OBESITY (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD LABELING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1230 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise as Europe Meets on Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Christopher Drew and Steven Erlanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Wednesday as companies reported solid earnings and investors cautiously watched the results from a summit meeting in Europe to address the sovereign debt crisis.
Despite some revised earnings outlooks because of the weakness in Europe, analysts were expecting some buoyancy from the financial markets.
The three main indexes in the United States had raced more than 1 percent higher shortly after the opening on Wall Street, but then failed to sustain their gains and gyrated through much of the trading session before closing higher. The uncertain trading came after some of the steepest losses in the market in weeks on Tuesday, when the Dow Jones industrial average snapped a three-day winning streak. 
On Wednesday, German lawmakers approved a proposal to more than double an emergency bailout fund, after Chancellor Angela Merkel asked lawmakers to overcome their aversion to risk and put Germany behind efforts to combat the crisis.
But European leaders worked into the night Wednesday as they tried to find a solution to the debt crisis.
''Everyone is clearly in wait-and-see mode for the outcome of today's summit,'' Edel Tully, an analyst with UBS, said in a research note.
The deal being discussed late Wednesday in Brussels included a restructuring of Greek debt, an injection of new capital into European banks and the expansion of the bailout fund.
While Europe's leaders said they had made some progress last weekend on measures aimed at addressing their financial and economic problems, expectations were not high for any firm or quick resolution.
''Modest expectations,'' said Stephen Wood, Russell Investments chief market strategist, ahead of the European Union meeting. ''Now if the market could just get an outline of a solution, an outline of the difficult decisions, there could be a positive reaction in the markets.''
The Dow was up 1.39 percent, or 162.42 points, at 11,869.04, and the S.& P. rose 1 percent to 1,242. The Nasdaq composite index was up about 0.46 percent at 2,650.67.
The gains in the Dow were helped by a more than 4 percent rise, to $66.56, in shares of Boeing, which said that its third-quarter earnings had topped estimates. It also projected that its new 787 Dreamliner would earn a low, single-digit profit from the sales of the first 1,100 planes.
The United States 10-year Treasury bond yield rose to 2.21 percent, from 2.11 percent on Tuesday. The price fell 26/32 to 99 9/32.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips closed 0.4 percent lower, while stocks in France, Germany and Britain were mixed.
Financial stocks in particular have borne the brunt of uncertainty in Europe, but on Wednesday, financial stocks were up nearly 2 percent.
Corporate results had an impact on major sectors. Companies dependent on consumer spending slipped less than 1 percent, weighed down by a 12.6 percent decline in the share price of Amazon to $198.40. The online retailer reported Tuesday that its operating income for the quarter had fallen 71 percent from 2010.
Energy stocks were up more than 2 percent. Valero Energy rose more than 15 percent on unattributed reports of possible bids for the company. Investors also weighed the potential impact of economic data on domestic growth. Durable goods orders fell in September because of a decline in aircraft orders, but the component used as a gauge for business equipment investment, or nondefense capital goods orders, rose 2.4 percent compared with the previous month, a report by the Commerce Department said on Wednesday.
The rise in business investment suggested that third-quarter gross domestic product growth has accelerated to an annual rate of 3.2 percent, economists with Capital Economics estimated.
Another report dealing with the housing sector showed that new single-family home sales rose by 5.7 percent from August to September, to about 313,000, the highest pace since April. But the median price fell to $204,400 from $210,900 in August.
''U.S. growth is well below potential, and the structural issues in the housing and labor markets may take years to resolve,'' said Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI.
''Further, the difficult sovereign debt and banking crises in the euro zone could wreak havoc on global growth,'' Mr. Waldman said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); DEBT CRISIS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EURO ZONE (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); EURO (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (81%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1231 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: East River Ferries

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Pleasant Surprise for East River Ferries: Crowds'' (news article, Oct. 17): 
With comfortable, frequent, scenic service, a reasonable price point and decent upland connections to mass transit, it is no surprise that New Yorkers are embracing the East River ferry service. The Achilles' heel of this important new addition to our transportation network is the limited run of its subsidy.
Every form of mass transit in our city relies on operating subsidy, and ferries are no exception. But in relative terms, they are a modest investment. On the capital financing side, water transit is a New York bargain -- no tracks to repair or roads to resurface. The water is ready-made for transport.
The proposed five-borough ferry system will be a boon to our overcongested roads and rails and a key to the economic development of our waterfront. Ferries need long-term, predictable public investment to succeed.
ROLAND LEWIS President and Chief Executive Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance New York, Oct. 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1232 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Clearing Up Some Confusion About the New Federal Student Loan Rules

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
On Wednesday, President Obamaintroduced two changes to the federal student loan program that could affect several million borrowers. The broad outlines of his plans to encourage loan consolidation and assist people who are struggling financially are reasonably clear.
But if the questions sent to our Bucks blog from indebted people are any indication, any change in Student Loan Land almost inevitably leads to enormous confusion. Many questions had to do with whether private loans, the kind that come from banks and often have higher and variable interest rates, are part of these changes. Nothing is changing with those loans.
This is crucial, since many of the people in the worst sort of trouble -- the ones you've read about with six-figure balances -- often have both private loans and federal loans.
Instead, only those with different kinds of federal loans -- an estimated 5.8 million borrowers -- will be able to consolidate them into one loan under the new plan and also save themselves a bit of money. 
Borrowers also remain befuddled about the confusing eligibility requirements of a two-year-old program that limits the monthly payment for certain federal student loan borrowers based on their income and then forgives any remaining debt after 25 years.
Starting sometime next year, the limit will be cut by a third for certain borrowers, and that will lower payments. Also, loan forgiveness will happen after 20 years. (The income-related changes were already scheduled to happen in 2014, but they will occur sooner now.)
Today, at least 450,000 people participate in the federal income-based repayment program that started about two years ago, though there are probably many more borrowers who are eligible but don't know about it or haven't figured out how to sign up.
I've answered as many of the reader queries as I can below, and will answer more on the Bucks blog in the coming weeks.
Q.Who is eligible?
A. People with at least one federal loan that they borrowed directly from the federal government and at least one that originated with a bank or other lender. If you have a bunch of bank-issued federal loans but no loan directly from the government, you can consolidate them under an older federal program, but it won't save you as much money.
The PLUS loans that some graduate students have taken out in recent years are eligible. Perkins Loans and many federal loans for people entering health professions are not eligible. And again, private student loans are not part of the mix here either.
Also, if you're in default on the loans, you won't be eligible.
Q.How do I know what kind of loan I have?
A. Don't be embarrassed to ask, since many people have forgotten or never knew in the first place. Call your lenders now and ask them. The Education Department plans to inform all eligible borrowers in January as well. If you haven't heard from them by the end of that month, call them at 1-800-4FEDAID (1-800-433-3243) and ask.
Q. Is there a limit to the number of federal loans I can consolidate?
A. No.
Q. What will I save if I consolidate under the new program?
A. It depends, and the formula for calculating your new interest rate is complex.
First, you'll subtract 25 basis points (a quarter of a percentage point) from the interest rate of your federal loan that a bank or other lender originated. You can also subtract another 25 basis points for both those bank loans and any loans that came from the federal government directly if you agree, once the loans are consolidated, to let the federal government (which will be the new lender of record) pull the payment automatically from your bank account each month.
The new rate will then be a weighted average of the two (newly discounted) rates from the two different types of loans, based on the balances of each loan.
Q. When can I sign up, and for how long?
A. Enrollment should begin in January and is scheduled to end on June 30, 2012.
Q. Can this help me make more of my federal loans eligible for forgiveness if I work in certain public service jobs?
A. Yes. The only federal loans that are eligible for that forgiveness plan are ones in the federal direct program, which is where you end up when you consolidate your federal student loans in this fashion. By consolidating, older federal loans that banks originated for you would then become eligible.
Q. What if I recently consolidated? Can I unconsolidate to take advantage of this new discount?
A. No.
Q. Who is eligible for these income-based repayment plans in the first place?
A. Eligibility is based on something known as ''discretionary'' income, which the federal government defines as anything above 150 percent of the poverty level. The poverty level depends on your state and the size of your family. The big idea here is to only allow people to qualify whose income makes it hard to afford their full federal student loan payments. (Private loans do not factor into income-based repayment.)
All of this is outlined in plain English on IBRinfo.org, a Web site maintained by a nonprofit group called the Project on Student Debt. Your lender or the company servicing your loan will decide whether you're eligible.
Q. What is changing with these programs as a result of Wednesday's announcement?
A. Currently, people who qualify pay no more than 15 percent of their discretionary income toward federal student loan payments each month. You only have to make payments for 25 years, even if there's still a balance left.
The new plan will lower the cap to 10 percent of discretionary income and waive any balances after 20 years of repayment. (Again, better deals are available for people who are working in certain public service jobs.)
Q. Any other catches?
A. Yes. This new income-based plan is not available to people who graduated in 2011 or earlier and have no plans to take out any new federal loans. Instead, you must have at least one federal loan from no earlier than 2008 and also take out one more in 2012 or later to qualify.
Graduate students are eligible, too, but you have to have taken your first loan out no earlier than 2008 to qualify, in addition to taking out at least one more in 2012 or later. So if you're a sixth-year doctoral student, this might not work for you. That said, you might be eligible for the older, less generous plan.
Also, here too, your loans can't be in default. This was disappointing to Robert Applebaum, the founder of forgivestudentloandebt.com. His two-year-old movement along with the petition he started on the White House's Web site helped inspire the adjustments to the federal loan programs.
''Income-based repayment is fantastic if all you have are federal loans and are current on your repayments,'' said Mr. Applebaum, 37, who lives on Staten Island and is current on his own student loans. ''But people are drowning in debt and penalties, and the government has made it so that first you have to get your head above water. Another step could have been to eliminate that requirement, and they didn't.''
Q. What if I still have questions?
A. The financial aid ace Mark Kantrowitz of finaid.org has posted his take on the announcement on the Choice blog. Otherwise, call the Education Department and keep an eye on studentaid.ed.gov and the Project on Student Debt's Web site for more details as they become available.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama spoke at the University of Colorado, Denver, about a new plan -- to be put in place by executive order -- to let former students cap loan payments at 10 percent of their discretionary income starting in 2012. It would also forgive the balance after 20 years of payments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)
 Robert Applebaum, a lawyer, started an online petition that helped inspire the adjustments to the federal loan programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (59%) COLORADO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1233 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: All That Authenticity May Be Getting Old

BYLINE: By EMILY WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
LIKE so many others her age, Casey Barber, 33, furnished her home with affordable basics from major retailers, pieces like that requisite ''Ikea table that is still making the rounds after all these years,'' she said.
But when it came to accessories, Ms. Barber, a writer and the editor of the Web site Good.Food.Stories., took care to search out the unique and handmade -- things that communicated her personality and a certain sense of authenticity.
One of her prized possessions, which hangs in the stairwell of the house she shares with her husband in Clifton, N.J., is a graphic print by the small studio JHill Design, depicting the bridges of Pittsburgh, where Ms. Barber grew up. She also has a number of other art posters bought on Etsy, the crafts Web site, along with a few antique maps, a collection of postcards from the 1940s and '50s and a cardboard bust of a bison that she bought at a shop in Chicago that sells antiques and quirky home accessories.
But recently, all this authenticity has begun to wear on her. Objects she once would have valued for their uniqueness have begun to seem like a ''design uniform,'' Ms. Barber said, now that the popularity of ''one of a kind'' things has become so widespread. 
Even the major retailers have gotten into the game. West Elm is promoting items by Etsy vendors, Restoration Hardware has commissioned artisans to design products that look antique, and Pottery Barn is selling vintage pieces like pickling jars from Hungary and pillow covers made from old grain sacks. Even CB2, the playful, modern sibling of Crate and Barrel, is peddling a series of vintage and limited-edition products called One of a Finds.
''If you spend enough time looking at this stuff'' -- objects that are vintage, handmade or that just appropriate those looks -- ''you get overloaded pretty quickly,'' Ms. Barber said.
How much authenticity is too much? It's an oddly philosophical question, given the subject matter, but one that might occur to anyone confronted with the deluge of vintage and artisanal products now available online and through mass-market retailers.
Put another way, have we finally reached a saturation point, where the ''authentic'' loses its eternal quality and becomes just another fad?
''It really is something we think about a lot,'' said Vanessa Holden, West Elm's creative director, who was formerly the editor in chief of Martha Stewart Living magazine. ''It's a word that is thrown around way too easily. When we talk about authenticity, we're very, very serious about getting as close to the source as we can, in terms of either the craft or the execution.''
A year ago, West Elm, the modern home furnishings retailer, which was already working with artisans and designers, formed a partnership with Etsy, the online marketplace that has been the engine and communal center of the all-things-handmade movement.
West Elm now features products by Etsy vendors in its catalogs and on its Web site, and hosts events called We Heart Handmade Art, which provide the vendors physical space where they can sell their wares. And on Dec. 1, the retailer will host an Etsy night at all its stores nationwide, where customers can create their own Christmas ornaments for trees that will be donated to local charities.
While there may be untold branding benefits, West Elm does not profit from the Etsy sales. Customers buy directly from the vendors, and there is no cut for the retailer. ''It's really about adding those diverse voices to our mix,'' Ms. Holden said.
Meanwhile, Restoration Hardware is working with a number of artisans to create vintage reproductions that can be seen, along with a variety of other vintage-looking pieces, in the company's 616-page fall catalog, which features magazine-style profiles of the creators.
Pottery Barn, which, like West Elm, is owned by Williams-Sonoma, sells vintage items from around the world as part of a collection called ''Found.'' Similarly, CB2 offers its own selection of vintage pieces, like hand-carved toys from India, as well as a line of items called ''Hand-Touched'' -- tied-dyed rugs, for example, or ottomans swathed in sweater-like knitted covers -- with handmade elements. (Birds, a totem of the crafts movement, are big at CB2 as well, where they can be found holding candles and printed on bed linens and pillow covers.)
Those vintage toys and handmade furnishings are one way Marta Calle, CB2's director, has tried to temper the company's identification with an aesthetic of hard edges and high gloss. ''When I first came on the brand, it was a little cold, a little sterile,'' said Ms. Calle, who joined the company in 2004. This is her answer, she said, to the question of ''how do you add texture to the store?''
Needless to say, many of the artisans have benefited as well.
Jason Lewis, 36, one of the craftsmen hired by CB2, was making furniture to order at his shop in Chicago before he began working with the company two years ago.
Since then, he has hand-built an edition of 200 American black walnut side tables, which the company sells for about $400 each, roughly half of what Mr. Lewis would have had to charge if he were building them one at a time in his shop, he said. All were made over the course of a summer, in a kind of artisanal assembly line he created in his studio.
''I felt like an employee at a Ford plant,'' he said, ''drilling 1,200 holes in a day or two.''
Mr. Lewis has also designed several chairs that the retailer is mass-producing in China. His relationship with CB2, he said, is ''slowly transforming my business, in terms of raising my profile. Before, my market was local. Now I'm seeing orders from around the country.''
DECORATING, said Stephen Drucker, the former editor of House Beautiful, ''always has two goals: comfort and display.''
''A 1930s pickling jar from Hungary, or anything Etsy,'' he continued, ''serves the same purpose as a 20-pound Swedish crystal ashtray did for my parents: It says, 'We're different, we're daring, we're not boring.' ''
And by mass-marketing those products, said Sarah Firshein, the editor of the real estate and interior design blog Curbed National, ''Retailers are making these kinds of objects very available to people who might not be able to otherwise find them, or afford them.''
Molly Erdman, 37, an actress and writer in Los Angeles, agrees. ''It's smart on their part,'' she said, referring to the retailers. ''They're trying to let people have that folk-artsy look, but from a place in your local mall, where you can get it.''
And while she pokes fun at the style on her blog, Catalog Living , she's not immune to the charms of ''the cozy stuff,'' as she calls it. In fact, Ms. Erdman is the proud owner of ''a fake-antique bird cage with a porcelain owl in it'' that she bought from the discount retailer Ross. ''Here's the tragedy of it,'' she said. ''If I saw it in a catalog, I would completely make fun of it. But I was like, 'I have to have this.' ''
''My big plan for it, which is even worse,'' she added, ''is that I want to hang it from the ceiling and put Christmas lights in it. I am spending too much time looking at these Web sites. It has affected me.''
That wouldn't surprise Maxwell Gillingham-Ryan, an interior designer who founded the widely read Web site Apartment Therapy. He maintains that the style's popularity has been a decade in the making, and that it won't be fading any time soon.
''People are looking for things that are authentic,'' he said. ''I think it started happening after 2001: first there was 9/11, followed by recession. There was a certain exhaustion with the shiny and perfect. People didn't relate to it anymore.''
But the vintage and artisanal, he said, ''will resonate with people as long as we live in these times.''
Maybe not with everyone, though. As Dmitri Siegel put it: ''When you pile Etsy on top of Etsy, it gets really cacophonous: 'Everything in here is totally unique!' It starts canceling itself out.''
Mr. Siegel, 38, who moved to Ventura, Calif., from Philadelphia this fall with his wife, Woodwyn Koons, 36, and their 4-year-old son, Arlo, lost nearly everything, including a large collection of vintage furnishings, when their moving van caught fire.
The moving company returned a few things that could be salvaged, including a vintage apple-green dining table and a 19th-century illustration of ''furry animals in a pastoral scene,'' as Ms. Koons described it, bought at a flea market in the Berkshires.
But ''it felt kind of weird,'' said Mr. Siegel, who was until recently the executive director of marketing for Urban Outfitters and is now vice president for global e-commerce at Patagonia. While their one-of-a-kind furnishings fit seamlessly into their old home, none of it seemed right for their new life.
''I had a whole vintage teacup collection that is now so hideous to me,'' Ms. Koons said. ''I feel like I am going to make my own fire and torch it all.''
As they began furnishing their new house from scratch, they found themselves choosing pieces with clean, modern lines that ''could be a backdrop for whatever we were interested in at the moment,'' Mr. Siegel said. In other words, he said, ''not trying to express your personality and your total individuality with every single thing in your house.''
Ms. Koons, who recently completed her doctorate in clinical psychology, calls it a ''very unornamental aesthetic.''
What does that mean to her?
''No bird pillows,'' she said. ''And actually, we had a lot of bird pillows. I had two bird duvets. I had birds on the wall. So it's a real about-face.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONLY YOU: Major retailers sell vintage or handmade objects, or produce items with that look. At right, the Restoration Hardware Versailles chair
artisan-made felt ornaments from West Elm, above.
AND YOU ALONE: From top: reproduction machinery gears from Restoration Hardware
a mug adorned with an owl, the totem of the crafts movement, mass-produced by West Elm
vintage pickling jars sold by Pottery Barn
vintage toys from India, sold by CB2. Below: linen pillow covers made to look like vintage grain sacks, from Restoration Hardware, and wooden tops made from reclaimed railroad ties, from CB2.(D1)
FOREVER: From left: a West Elm pillow cover made with hand-loomed silk
a Restoration Hardware 1940s-style chair and cast-aluminum model of the Eiffel Tower
pillow covers made of vintage grain sacks from Pottery Barn
and owl dessert plates sold by West Elm.
OR A FAD?: Casey Barber collects handmade art posters, which hang in her stairwell and living room, left and below. Molly Erdman, below center, creator of the blog Catalog Living, with her fake-antique bird cage. Dmitri Siegel and Woodwyn Koons, with Arlo, bottom, at home with their new ''unornamental aesthetic,'' as Ms. Koons put it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SKLAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BARRY SCHWARTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (78%); WRITERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); WEB SITES (71%)

PERSON: BARRY F SCHWARTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1234 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: In Denver, Obama Asks Students For Support

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
DENVER -- President Obama on Wednesday ended a three-day Western trip that was heavier on politics than policy, rallying thousands of college students whose enthusiasm belied the struggle he will have to win this state again in 2012.
Continuing his ''we can't wait'' theme against Republicans' opposition to his legislative agenda, Mr. Obama promoted the latest in what will be a series of executive actions not requiring Congress's approval -- new rules to expedite and ease repayment terms for graduates burdened with federal student loans. 
At the University of Colorado's snow-covered downtown Denver campus, the president was introduced by a senior, Mahala Greer, who described herself as a member of ''Generation Debt,'' owing $30,000 as she looks to a career as a relatively low-paid elementary school teacher. He then topped her, telling the crowd that he and his wife owed a combined $120,000 when they married after law school.
Mr. Obama said executive actions like that on student loans did not negate the need for Congress to pass his proposed $447 billion jobs package of tax cuts and spending. ''I need you guys involved, I need you active,'' he said, to press lawmakers to act. ''Tell them, 'Do your job,' '' he said to applause. ''Too many people out there are hurting for us to just sit around and do nothing.''
Mr. Obama was nominated in Denver in 2008, and it was his last stop this week in a swing through California, Nevada and Colorado that included six fund-raisers in Las Vegas, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Denver, an appearance on NBC's ''Tonight Show,'' and two policy announcements, including Wednesday's on college costs.
While California is a fund-raising mecca for Democrats, Nevada and Colorado are battleground states that Mr. Obama won three years ago but where he is on the defensive now given the weak economy. The campaign strategy is to offset Mr. Obama's lack of support among older white voters in the two states by mobilizing their growing Hispanic electorate and young college-educated voters like those he addressed at CU Denver.
University volunteers said 4,500 tickets were distributed on Tuesday. Despite the first snowstorm of the season, students circled the perimeter of the campus special-events center for hours in advance to be admitted through the security barrier.
As Mr. Obama entered, coatless and shirtsleeves rolled, students rose and chanted ''O-ba-ma!'' and ''Yes we can!'' But minutes later as he was making his usual points about how ''we've made some progress'' on fixing the economy though ''we've still got a long way to go,'' Mr. Obama was interrupted by about a dozen protesters at the rear who unfurled a banner reading ''Stop the Keystone XL Pipeline Project.''
The proposed pipeline of the Canadian energy company TransCanada would carry oil over about 2,000 miles from the tar sands of Alberta to Texas if it gets administration approval. Blocking it has become a priority for environmentalists
After the protesters walked out, he resumed his complaints against opponents in Congress. ''How can you say 'no' to creating jobs at a time when so many people are out of work? It doesn't make sense,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I'm going to need you guys to be out there calling and tweeting and all the stuff you do,'' he said, adding, ''We can't wait for Congress to do its job. So where they won't act, I will.''
On Monday in Las Vegas, Mr. Obama promoted steps to permit about one million more Americans who owe more than their homes are currently worth to refinance for lower monthly payments. The college loans initiative, according to the administration, would benefit about 1.6 million graduates at no additional government cost.
Mr. Obama said a college education has ''never been more important,'' but it also has ''never been more expensive.'' Graduates have on average $24,000 in debt, he said, and college loan debt for the first time exceeds credit card debt.
''This is something Michelle and I know firsthand. e did not come from a wealthy family,'' he said, drawing big applause.
But when Mr. Obama, who was raised by a single mother and grandparents, added that his wife nonetheless ''had sort of a 'Leave It to Beaver' perfect family,'' many students seemed uncertain of the reference -- even he, born in 1961, could only have seen reruns of the show, popular in the late '50s and early '60s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (78%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1235 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Perry Says He'll Be a Job Creator

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
The presidential campaign of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas started running its first television advertisement on broadcast and cable television in Iowa on Wednesday.
THE SCRIPT Mr. Perry says: ''As president I'll create at least two and a half million new jobs, and I know something about that. In Texas we've created over one million new jobs while the rest of the nation lost over two million. I'll start by opening American oil and gas fields. I'll eliminate President Obama's regulations that hurt other sources of domestic energy like coal and natural gas. That will create jobs and reduce our reliance on oil from countries that hate America. I'm Rick Perry and I approve of this message.'' 
ON THE SCREEN The spot mostly consists of Mr. Perry, wearing a dark blue suit, light blue shirt and yellow tie, speaking into the camera. It also has a montage of Mr. Perry shaking hands with factory workers and walking at construction sites, as well as images of an oil platform, pipelines, an oil derrick, power lines and a heavy truck used for transporting coal.
ACCURACY According to federal data, Texas has gained over a million jobs since Mr. Perry became governor, as he says. But Mr. Perry chooses his words carefully, and there may be a reason: Early in the campaign he was criticized for suggesting he deserved credit for new jobs in Texas when economists cited other factors, like a strong oil economy and relatively mild housing problems.
Mr. Perry says that as president he would start job creation efforts by relaxing limits on oil and gas exploration, which he previously said would create 1.2 million jobs. What he does not say is that the estimate appears to be drawn from or heavily influenced by a recent oil industry proposal, and that experts are skeptical that more exploration and drilling will create anywhere near that number of jobs.
In the ad, Mr. Perry also focuses on job creation -- as opposed to unemployment -- and it is easy to see why: Texas' unemployment rate has risen over the last two years as the national rate dropped. (Different surveys are used to calculate the two measures; possible explanations for the seemingly contradictory numbers include more Texans working more than one job, or fewer self-employed people report finding work.)
SCORECARD If Mr. Perry can convince voters that his policies can create jobs, it could help him in states where many people have been spent long, frustrating periods looking for work. And unlike, say, tax proposals, which voters are more efficient at determining what would be better for them, the jobs issue may be more confusing. And it may be easier for Mr. Perry to convince people of his record by using one clean number that avoids discussion of whether jobs data -- or unemployment data -- is the most appropriate measure, and also avoids questions about who, or what, truly deserves the credit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAX LAW (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%)

COMPANY: HESS CORP (57%); HESS BAKKEN INVESTMENTS I CORP (57%); KINDER MORGAN INC (57%)

TICKER: HES (NYSE) (57%); KMI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1236 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' First Offer: Up to $3 Trillion for Debt

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Faced with an approaching deadline and increasing skepticism about Congress's ability to accomplish the task before it, Democrats on a special Congressional committee assigned to reduce the nation's debt load on Wednesday made their first offer to Republicans based on earlier budget talks that ultimately collapsed.
A majority of the 6 Democrats on the 12-member panel threw their support behind a plan that they said incorporated some ideas discussed over the summer by President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner. 
The committee is charged with cutting budget deficits by a total of at least $1.2 trillion over 10 years. The Democratic plan would trim much more, a total of $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion, through cuts in the growth of federal entitlement programs, including Medicare, and more than $1 trillion in new tax revenues.
The proposal, which came after weeks of silence, has virtually no chance of winning approval from Republicans on the committee, who have repeatedly said they would not accept a package that included tax increases.
A Republican Congressional aide said the Democrats' proposal was not serious. ''I do not know why anyone would believe that Republicans would ever agree to more than $1 trillion in taxes,'' said the aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, in keeping with restrictions imposed by the co-chairmen of the panel. ''It is ridiculous, nothing more than political posturing.''
Other Republicans sounded more optimistic, suggesting that the proposal defined the outer bounds for negotiations, which could now begin in earnest.
The panel, divided evenly between Democrats and Republicans, began meeting last month to attack the deficit, as required by a law passed this summer allowing the debt ceiling to rise.
The panel is supposed to make its final recommendations by Nov. 23, and both houses of Congress are supposed to vote by Dec. 23. If legislation to save at least $1.2 trillion is not enacted, the president in January 2013 is supposed to make up the difference by imposing across-the-board cuts in most military and civilian programs. Republicans are particularly concerned about cuts in Pentagon spending.
The Democrats' proposal includes new spending to stimulate the economy and create jobs, based on their conviction that economic growth would generate a surge in revenue. Republicans have strenuously opposed an increase in tax rates, to reduce the deficit or to pay for new spending. The Democrats' plan also calls for several hundred billion dollars of savings in Medicare, though it was unclear how those savings would be achieved.
In April, Mr. Obama proposed savings of at least $200 billion in Medicare and at least $100 billion in Medicaid.
The proposal by Democrats on the deficit-reduction committee draws heavily on ideas discussed by Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner. Those discussions included a possible increase in the age of eligibility for Medicare to 67, from 65. However, Democrats on the committee said their proposal did not include a change in the eligibility age -- a proposal that had caused dismay among many advocates for older Americans.
Democrats said their proposal was meant to show that they were flexible, offering constructive solutions and reaching out to Republicans. Republicans countered with ideas of their own, including deeper cuts in domestic spending and entitlement programs, as well as new fees.
At a public hearing of the committee on Wednesday, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and a panel member, hinted at his party's plan when he asked the director of the Congressional Budget Office, Douglas W. Elmendorf, to explain the potential economic benefits of a deal reducing deficits by $3 trillion over 10 years.
To achieve such a reduction, Mr. Kerry said, the ratio of spending cuts to new revenues might be ''3 to 1 or 2 to 1.''
For the purpose of discussion, Mr. Kerry said, he assumed that the revenue would ''come exclusively from the highest-end people,'' those with the highest incomes, who had the largest gains in income in the last 25 years.
Mr. Elmendorf said that a sweeping agreement with 10-year savings of $3 trillion to $4 trillion could have ''a positive effect'' on output and employment. By contrast, Mr. Kerry said, if lawmakers settle for a deficit-reduction package of $1.2 trillion or $1.5 trillion, Congress may be ''back here in about a year or two, or three at maximum, dealing with the very same issues that are on the plate now about the unsustainability of our budget.''
Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a New Jersey Democrat who is not on the committee, said that Republican resistance to new taxes was reducing the probability of a deal.
Democrats will never agree to substantial savings in Medicare and Social Security if the deal does not include new revenues, Mr. Pascrell said.
Looking to the deadline just four weeks away, Mr. Pascrell said: ''Come Thanksgiving Day, I hope we have something to be thankful for. I would say, at this point, we will be thankful for our families, our faith and our country. But we will not be thankful for a resolution of the budget problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, spoke on Wednesday at a meeting of the deficit reduction committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (62%); MEDICAID (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1237 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer Opposing Health Law Is Familiar Face to the Justices

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It would be hard for any lawyer to fathom a more riveting caseload than the one Paul D. Clement carried during his seven years in President George W. Bush's Justice Department.
As solicitor general for three years and deputy solicitor for four, Mr. Clement appeared before the Supreme Court 49 times, defended the administration's detention of terrorism suspects, fought off challenges to the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law and validated the prosecution of medical marijuana growers in a landmark commerce case.
But if possible, the docket that Mr. Clement has compiled in the private sector as one of Washington's leading appellate litigators may situate him even closer to the center of national discourse.
At the moment, he is defending both Arizona's tough new law against illegal immigration and Congress's prohibition against interstate recognition of same-sex marriages. And if, as expected, the Supreme Court soon announces that it will hear a challenge to last year's health care law, it seems increasingly likely that it will be Mr. Clement who argues, in the thick of the 2012 campaign, that President Obama's signature domestic achievement is unconstitutional. 
This week and last, Mr. Clement, 45, filed briefs supporting the Obama administration's request that the court accept his health care challenge from among the several pending before it. He is lead counsel in the high-profile Florida case filed by Republican governors and attorneys general from 26 states. In August, he and his co-counsel, Michael A. Carvin, won the only appellate ruling to invalidate the act's keystone provision, which will require most Americans to obtain medical insurance, starting in 2014.
That opinion, from the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, directly contradicts a ruling from the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati, and both rulings, along with others, have been appealed to the Supreme Court.
''I do think there's a good chance that the court will take the 11th Circuit case,'' Mr. Clement said in an interview in his M Street office. ''It may take other cases as well. But in the 11th Circuit case you've got a statute of Congress struck down as unconstitutional, in a way that creates a circuit split, and the federal government is petitioning. I'm not sure there's ever been a case that had those three things going for it that wasn't granted.''
The other thing the 11th Circuit case may have going for it is Mr. Clement. As a former clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia, Mr. Clement maintains a breezy but respectful rapport with the justices. It is assumed that his familiar name on a petition can improve the 1-in-100 chance that a case will be accepted for consideration.
That is among the reasons Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona hired Mr. Clement to handle her state's Supreme Court appeal of rulings against its groundbreaking immigration law. The speaker of the House, John A. Boehner, engaged him to contest challenges to the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act after the Obama Justice Department declared it was unconstitutional and stopped defending it.
Mr. Clement, who has argued more Supreme Court cases since 2000 than any other lawyer, made his 54th appearance in mid-October and has another scheduled for December. As a change of pace, he is among the lawyers representing the National Basketball Association in labor negotiations with its locked-out players, reprising a role he played for the National Football League last spring.
Florida's attorney general, Pam Bondi, said the plaintiffs in the health care litigation hired Mr. Clement at the appellate stage out of conviction that their case was ''the ideal vehicle'' for the Supreme Court.
''Having Paul Clement as our lawyer cements that,'' she said, ''because his presence assures the Supreme Court that our arguments will be presented as professionally, intelligently and effectively as possible.''
Justice Department officials said the health care law would be defended in the Supreme Court by the current solicitor general, Donald B. Verrilli Jr.
Florida and the other plaintiff states have a contract with Mr. Clement, at discounted rates, that is capped at $250,000. In the same-sex marriage case, House Republicans recently tripled the cap on his fees to $1.5 million, paid from tax coffers. Without being precise, Mr. Clement confirmed speculation that he typically bills in the range of $1,000 an hour.
Other appellate specialists say Mr. Clement brings both exhaustive preparation and acute insight to his cases. The son of an accountant and a homemaker from Cedarburg, Wis., north of Milwaukee, he received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown, a master's in economics from Cambridge and a law degree from Harvard, where he helped edit the law review when Barack Obama was its president. Mr. Clement now lives in Alexandria, Va., with his wife and three sons.
Despite his relative youth, Mr. Clement ranks eighth among active lawyers in the number of Supreme Court appearances. (The record belongs to the 19th-century advocate Walter Jones, with 317, followed by Daniel Webster, according to the Yale Biographical Dictionary of American Law.)
Mr. Clement has a winning record in the Supreme Court, but his losses include significant rulings against the Bush administration's indefinite detention of enemy combatants. In 2004, he asserted under questioning from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg that the Bush administration did not torture, only to learn through news reports the next day that American soldiers had mistreated Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib.
''It's the worst thing that can happen to you as a lawyer,'' he said of being blindsided by inconvenient facts.
Mr. Clement is admired by colleagues and adversaries for the straightforward clarity of his presentation. He famously argues without notes, leaving his hands free to jab and gesticulate, sometimes as if wringing an imaginary neck.
''He just internalizes every single aspect of the case,'' said Viet D. Dinh, Mr. Clement's law partner. ''He makes the argument not from memory but from total immersion.''
Mr. Clement's familiarity with the court was on display in an edgy exchange in 2009, when he argued in Perdue v. Kenny A. that lawyers occasionally deserved enhanced fees for exceptional performance. It had been barely a year since he left the solicitor general's job, with its $158,500 salary, for a huge pay package at King & Spalding.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who had himself once enjoyed a lucrative law practice, started the ribbing. ''Maybe we have a different perspective,'' the chief justice said. ''You think the lawyers are responsible for a good result, and I think the judges are.''
''And maybe your perspective's changed, Your Honor,'' Mr. Clement suggested, as the courtroom tittered.
''Maybe your perspective has changed, too, Mr. Clement,'' volleyed Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who then questioned whether good lawyering could be bought only with immense fees.
''Well, on that,'' Mr. Clement said, ''my perspective has changed, Your Honor.''
Because Mr. Clement's caseload reads like the Republican Party platform -- against same-sex marriage, tough on illegal immigration, pledged to the destruction of the Obama health care law -- he is perceived by some as an ideological warrior.
''He has really run the table of conservative causes,'' said Walter Dellinger, who served as solicitor general under President Bill Clinton. ''Paul is such a good advocate and such a cheerful friend that it's easy to forget how conservative he is.''
That reputation was likely reinforced by Mr. Clement's principled resignation in April from King & Spalding after the firm, under internal and external pressure, withdrew from the Defense of Marriage case.
Officials at the firm said the case had not received proper review, but acknowledged that Mr. Clement had reason to believe it would be approved. Mr. Clement said he knew his representation might offend some, but felt strongly that any act of Congress should receive a capable defense.
In his resignation letter, he stressed that he was leaving not because of his views on same-sex marriage, which he did not volunteer, but ''out of the firmly held belief that a representation should not be abandoned because the client's legal position is extremely unpopular in certain quarters.''
Decamping a firm with 800 lawyers, Mr. Clement landed at one with 12, Bancroft P.L.L.C., which was founded by Mr. Dinh, a law school friend and former Justice Department colleague.
Mr. Clement resists discussing his own politics, and said he eagerly took work from wherever it came. He pointed to his recent representation of California inmates who won a United States Supreme Court order to reduce overcrowding, and of a human rights group seeking to obtain videotape of a prison murder.
''I'm sure I've been involved in a case that, if you just looked at that one case, would tick off almost everyone,'' Mr. Clement said. ''To me, being a lawyer means that you get in the fray.''
Because Mr. Clement's name is included on most lists of potential Supreme Court candidates in a Republican administration, his caseload is scrutinized by court watchers for signs of positioning. Mr. Clement cannot help hearing the buzz, but said it played no role in his selection of cases.
''It sure doesn't seem to, does it?'' he asked. ''You certainly don't look at the cases I take and say, 'Boy, this guy's being incredibly cautious.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Paul D. Clement, a lawyer who is leading the challenge to President Obama's health care law, misstated a provision of the Defense of Marriage Act, which he is defending on behalf of House Republicans. The law prohibits federal recognition, not interstate recognition, of same-sex marriages.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Clement, center, has argued more Supreme Court cases since 2000 than any other lawyer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PETITIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); HERBAL MEDICINE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (70%); CANNABIS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); TERRORISM (56%); IMMIGRATION (54%); GAYS & LESBIANS (53%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (53%); MARRIAGE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANTONIN SCALIA (57%); JAN BREWER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1238 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Well, Just Try Saying That to My Face! Actor and Senator Tussle on Twitter

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
The State Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, has faced ample criticism over his opposition to an income-tax surcharge on high-earning New Yorkers.
His latest adversary: the actor Alec Baldwin, who on Wednesday engaged in something of a Twitter feud with Mr. Skelos over the merits of the so-called millionaires' tax.
Their quarrel began on Tuesday, when Mr. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, appeared on a public radio program, ''The Capitol Pressroom.'' As he has for months, Mr. Skelos insisted that continuing the surcharge would hurt the state's economy and compel wealthy residents to move elsewhere. (Mr. Skelos counts among his allies on the issue the state's Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo.) 
Mr. Skelos, in the radio interview, took a poke at Mr. Baldwin, who is known for his liberal politics and has made it no secret that he might run for office someday. Mr. Baldwin visited Occupy Wall Street's encampment in Lower Manhattan last week, and word later surfaced that he had recently spent $11.7 million on a penthouse apartment in Greenwich Village.
''A lot of good things were accomplished in last year's budget fiscally, and we have to continue that way,'' Mr. Skelos said in the interview. ''We can't be sidetracked. We can't be influenced by the Alec Baldwins of the world that are just buying a $17 million condo in Greenwich Village, and he's going to tell us that we should tax everybody else.''
His remark quickly circulated on Twitter, where Mr. Baldwin has more than 478,000 followers and posts messages frequently. On Wednesday morning, he set his sights on Mr. Skelos, challenging him to release his tax returns. ''I pay more in income txs in 1 yr than Skelos pays in 20,'' Mr. Baldwin wrote. ''So what's his point?''
He even created a Skelos-themed hashtag, used on the site to track popular topics: #noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskelos.
Mr. Skelos - who lives in Rockville Centre, not far from Mr. Baldwin's hometown of Massapequa in Nassau County - found himself at a significant disadvantage on Twitter, where he posts messages less frequently and is followed by fewer than 1,000 people. But later Wednesday, he took to the site for his own defense, saying that Mr. Baldwin was a hypocrite for appearing in commercials for Capital One and writing that if Mr. Baldwin thought Mr. Skelos was wrong about the surcharge, ''He must think Gov Cuomo is too since he agrees with me.''
Mr. Baldwin was not done. Jabbing Mr. Skelos for his numerical inaccuracy in the radio appearance, Mr. Baldwin wrote, ''If I had $17 million to spend on an apt, I'd use a big chunk of that to #defeatdeanskelos.''
But Mr. Skelos at least won something on Wednesday: over the course of the day, the hubbub about his Twitter feud brought him at least a dozen new followers.
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Dean Skelos says I want your taxes to go up and not my own. http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:18:47 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
#noonelieslikedeanskelos http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:19:21 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
#noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskelos
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:20:11 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Only a Nassau County Republian tool like Dean Skelos could drag my name into a debate on state income tax.
http://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:21:47 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
I pay more in income txs in 1 yr than Skelos pays in 20. So what's his point? #noonedistortsthefactslikedeanskeloshttp://t.co/hzeav9Mn
Wed Oct 26 8:25:13 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
I challenge Dean Skelos 2 a Citizen's Responsibilities Contest. Provide ur tax returns and personal itinerary for the past ten years.
Wed Oct 26 9:50:58 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
Then let's see who has done more for their communities.
Wed Oct 26 9:51:29 via Alec Baldwin
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
If @AlecBaldwin thinks I'm wrong, he must think Gov Cuomo is too since he agrees with me u can't raise taxes on businesses, working people.
Wed Oct 26 11:37:29 via Senator Dean Skelos
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
Hypocritical @AlecBaldwin rages against corporate greed yet is a paid spokesperson for corporate giant Cap One.
Wed Oct 26 12:18:54 via Senator Dean Skelos
@SenatorSkelos Senator Dean Skelos
@AlecBaldwin BTW, think Jack Donaghy gets together with Liz Lemon in the end.
Wed Oct 26 12:35:48 via Senator Dean Skelos
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
C'mon Dean Skelos!! You professional distorted of facts!! Join me in a press conference. And bring your tax returns!!
Wed Oct 26 1:17:25 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
If I had $17 million to spend on an apt, I'd use a big chunk of that to #defeatdeanskelos
Wed Oct 26 2:07:14 via Alec Baldwin
@AlecBaldwin Alec Baldwin
@SenatorSkelos I know some folks at the Wagner School when you're ready to brush up on tax policy. #NYUisthebest
Wed Oct 26 2:38:21 via Alec Baldwin
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A radio appearance by State Senator Dean G. Skelos prompted a barrage of Twitter posts from Alec Baldwin on Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%)

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1239 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Crony Capitalism Comes Home

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
Whenever I write about Occupy Wall Street, some readers ask me if the protesters really are half-naked Communists aiming to bring down the American economic system when they're not doing drugs or having sex in public.
The answer is no. That alarmist view of the movement is a credit to the (prurient) imagination of its critics, and voyeurs of Occupy Wall Street will be disappointed. More important, while alarmists seem to think that the movement is a ''mob'' trying to overthrow capitalism, one can make a case that, on the contrary, it highlights the need to restore basic capitalist principles like accountability. 
To put it another way, this is a chance to save capitalism from crony capitalists.
I'm as passionate a believer in capitalism as anyone. My Krzysztofowicz cousins (who didn't shorten the family name) lived in Poland, and their experience with Communism taught me that the way to raise living standards is capitalism.
But, in recent years, some financiers have chosen to live in a government-backed featherbed. Their platform seems to be socialism for tycoons and capitalism for the rest of us. They're not evil at all. But when the system allows you more than your fair share, it's human to grab. That's what explains featherbedding by both unions and tycoons, and both are impediments to a well-functioning market economy.
When I lived in Asia and covered the financial crisis there in the late 1990s, American government officials spoke scathingly about ''crony capitalism'' in the region. As Lawrence Summers, then a deputy Treasury secretary, put it in a speech in August 1998: ''In Asia, the problems related to 'crony capitalism' are at the heart of this crisis, and that is why structural reforms must be a major part'' of the International Monetary Fund's solution.
The American critique of the Asian crisis was correct. The countries involved were nominally capitalist but needed major reforms to create accountability and competitive markets.
Something similar is true today of the United States.
So I'd like to invite the finance ministers of Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia -- whom I and other Americans deemed emblems of crony capitalism in the 1990s -- to stand up and denounce American crony capitalism today.
Capitalism is so successful an economic system partly because of an internal discipline that allows for loss and even bankruptcy. It's the possibility of failure that creates the opportunity for triumph. Yet many of America's major banks are too big to fail, so they can privatize profits while socializing risk.
The upshot is that financial institutions boost leverage in search of supersize profits and bonuses. Banks pretend that risk is eliminated because it's securitized. Rating agencies accept money to issue an imprimatur that turns out to be meaningless. The system teeters, and then the taxpayer rushes in to bail bankers out. Where's the accountability?
It's not just rabble-rousers at Occupy Wall Street who are seeking to put America's capitalists on a more capitalist footing.
''Structural change is necessary,'' Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in an important speech last month that discussed many of these themes. He called for more curbs on big banks, possibly including trimming their size, and he warned that otherwise we're on a path of ''increasingly frequent, complex and dangerous financial breakdowns.''
Likewise, Mohamed El-Erian, another pillar of the financial world who is the chief executive of Pimco, one of the world's largest money managers, is sympathetic to aspects of the Occupy movement. He told me that the economic system needs to move toward ''inclusive capitalism'' and embrace broad-based job creation while curbing excessive inequality.
''You cannot be a good house in a rapidly deteriorating neighborhood,'' he told me. ''The credibility and the fair functioning of the neighborhood matter a great deal. Without that, the integrity of the capitalist system will weaken further.''
Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist, adds that some inequality is necessary to create incentives in a capitalist economy but that ''too much inequality can harm the efficient operation of the economy.'' In particular, he says, excessive inequality can have two perverse consequences: first, the very wealthy lobby for favors, contracts and bailouts that distort markets; and, second, growing inequality undermines the ability of the poorest to invest in their own education.
''These factors mean that high inequality can generate further high inequality and eventually poor economic growth,'' Professor Katz said.
Does that ring a bell?
So, yes, we face a threat to our capitalist system. But it's not coming from half-naked anarchists manning the barricades at Occupy Wall Street protests. Rather, it comes from pinstriped apologists for a financial system that glides along without enough of the discipline of failure and that produces soaring inequality, socialist bank bailouts and unaccountable executives.
It's time to take the crony out of capitalism, right here at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); SECURITIZATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); POLAND (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1240 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: So Much for the Nativists

 BODY:
Here's a Capitol riddle for you: Representative Lamar Smith, one of the most reflexively anti-immigrant hard-liners in Congress, is sponsoring a bill to flood the agriculture sector with up to half-a-million visas for guest workers. Understand why and you're well on your way to unpacking the nation's dysfunctional relationship with undocumented immigrants.
Mr. Smith, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has a bill to require every employer in the country to use E-Verify, the federal hiring database, and fire the workers it flags as unauthorized. 
He says it will give American jobs back to Americans. But it has angered small-business owners, who know a job-killing regulation when they see one. And it has enraged the farm industry, where more than half of the work force is undocumented. Thus the need for Mr. Smith's second bill, the American Specialty Agriculture Act.
A well-designed agricultural guest worker program is not a bad idea. Even when unemployment is above 9 percent, Americans don't want to stoop in the fields anymore.
But this is an awful guest worker bill. It would create a system that is far worse than the current cumbersome guest worker program. It would let growers pay even lower wages and weaken the rules on providing workers with housing and reimbursing their travel expenses. Growers would get a break on having to certify that they tried to hire Americans first. Oversight would shift from the Labor Department, with its pesky insistence on wage-and-hour protections, to the Department of Agriculture, which has never run a program like this before.
The growers' rebellion against E-Verify, and Mr. Smith's contortions to buy them off, is further proof that the country cannot live without immigrant labor -- no matter what the nativists may claim. That is why, even as Congress has abdicated its duty to fix immigration and left the states to run amok on enforcement, there is still an abundance of visa-related bills on Capitol Hill.
Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican, and Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat of California, both have sensible bills to promote the hiring of foreign college graduates in science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- the workers coveted by high-tech employers.
In the trivial category, Senators Charles Schumer, a Democrat of New York, and Mike Lee, a Republican of Utah, want to give visas to foreigners who buy expensive houses. Mr. Lee has another bill to allow guest dairy workers to stay in the United States year-round.
Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, has co-sponsored a bill with Mr. Smith to speed the entry of high-tech workers by eliminating the per-country quotas on employment-based green cards that force Ph.D.'s in countries like India to wait years for visas. There are also bills to let in Cuban baseball players, Tibetan refugees and the children of Filipino veterans of World War II.
There's one group that badly needs and deserves visas that no one seems to want to go to bat for. They are the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are already living here and helping make things work. If they had a deal -- pay fines, learn English, get to the back of the immigration line and, meanwhile, get back to work -- the economic benefits would be enormous. We don't expect Mr. Smith to admit that. But we would like to hear a lot more from President Obama, and others, about why real immigration reform is so important for America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (68%)

PERSON: LAMAR SMITH (90%); RAUL LABRADOR (58%); JASON CHAFFETZ (58%); ZOE LOFGREN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); MIKE LEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1241 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Facing Hardship, Jobless Still Say They Have Hope

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and ALLISON KOPICKI; Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The nation's lingering unemployment crisis has forced many people without work to dip into their savings, borrow from relatives and do without necessities including health insurance, and most people who receive unemployment benefits said that the money was not enough to meet their basic needs, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll of jobless Americans.
Still, despite enduring hardships and being even more pessimistic about the nation's economy than the general public, unemployed Americans remained optimistic about eventually landing jobs. A little more than half of those polled said they were either very or somewhat confident they would find long-term employment in the next year, and a majority said they expected that when they did find permanent work, it would be at a similar or higher salary than they had received in the past.
But the poll found deep unease about unemployment benefits. At a moment when several states have decided to pay fewer weeks of benefits to save money, and President Obama has been urging Republicans in Congress to renew a program -- due to lapse at the end of the year -- that pays federal jobless benefits to the long-term unemployed, 7 in 10 of those receiving unemployment benefits said that they feared their benefits would run out before they could find new jobs. 
While jobless benefits have been criticized as unaffordable by some Republicans, particularly at the state level, three-quarters of the people receiving them said that they got ''a lot less'' than they used to earn at their jobs, and two-thirds said that the benefits were not enough to pay for basics like housing and food.
''I was earning $50,000 a year, and now I get $200 a week,'' said Jan Thomas, 62, an unemployed marketing executive from Sarasota, Fla., who has been laid off from two jobs in the last three years. Ms. Thomas said in a follow-up interview to the poll that she recently dropped her health insurance ''just hoping all will be well'' and that she would soon lose her unemployment benefits, leading her to think about applying early for Social Security. ''And I'm giving up my apartment and moving in with my mom because my unemployment will be running out,'' she said.
The toll that unemployment is taking on families is not just financial, according to the telephone poll, which surveyed 445 unemployed adults from Oct. 19 to Oct. 25 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points. More than half of those polled said that they had experienced emotional or mental health problems like anxiety or depression because of their lack of work, and nearly half said that they had felt embarrassed or ashamed not to have jobs. More than a third said that they had had more conflicts or arguments with family and friends because of being jobless. The top reason people cited for not getting work: Too many applicants.
Threats of foreclosure or eviction were reported by a fifth of the unemployed, and one in eight said that they had moved in with relatives or friends. More than half said that they lacked health insurance. A fifth said that they had received food from a nonprofit organization. And in a sign that the nation's current economic woes could reverberate for years, nearly two-thirds said they would probably not have enough money to live comfortably during retirement. More than half said that they had taken money out of savings or retirement accounts.
But the unemployed continue to believe in the American dream. Two-thirds of those surveyed said that they still believed it was possible to start out poor in this country, work hard and become rich -- only a little lower than the three-quarters of all Americans who said that they believed that, according to a New York Times/CBS News nationwide poll that was conducted at the same time as the poll of the unemployed adults.
Robert Roberson, 52, a licensed plumber from Corpus Christi, Tex., who has been out of work for a year, said that he hoped to get work soon when a delayed project to build a prison breaks ground. ''I actually think the job market will get better because I think the recession will have a break and they'll go back to building housing,'' he said.
Unemployed people are now less likely to blame former President George W. Bush for the nation's high unemployment rate than they were two years ago in the last Times/CBS News poll of the unemployed. But few blame Mr. Obama. Eight percent of the unemployed in the new survey said that Mr. Bush was most to blame, down from 26 percent two years ago. Five percent said that Mr. Obama was most to blame, almost the same as the 3 percent who said so two years ago. Nearly a fifth said ''politicians'' were most to blame.
There are currently 14 million Americans unemployed, and more underemployed, and the unemployment rate remained stubbornly high at 9.1 percent last month. Fierce debates over how to spur the economy, and how far to go in taking care of unemployed people, are consuming Washington and state capitals.
One of the most contentious policy questions is how long the government should continue to pay unemployment benefits. The length and depth of the downturn led many states to deplete the trust funds they use to pay such benefits, forcing them to borrow billions of dollars from the federal government and prompting some states to raise taxes on businesses to continue paying benefits. This year half a dozen states decided that they would no longer pay the 26 weeks of state benefits that has long been standard.
The federal government has been picking up the tab to pay extended benefits that allow some long-term unemployed people to collect checks for up to 99 weeks in states with the worst unemployment problems. If that program is not renewed at the end of the year, 1.8 million people could lose benefits in January, according to the National Employment Law Project, which advocates renewing the program.
Seven in 10 of the unemployed said that the government should pay benefits for 99 weeks or more. While a slight majority of Americans said that getting unemployment benefits makes people less motivated to seek work, only 40 percent of unemployed people said that it did, with half saying that it had no effect.
Three-quarters of the unemployed said that they were qualified, or overqualified, for the jobs that they were seeking. Four in 10 said that they would consider moving elsewhere to get jobs, but only 15 percent said that they had applied for jobs elsewhere. More than a third said that they had taken classes or trained for new jobs while unemployed.
One was Bobby Austin, 25, from Valdosta, Ga., who lost his job as a truck driver two years ago and whose benefits will run out soon. ''Now I'm back in school to study nursing,'' he said, ''and I'm confident I will find a job when I finish next year.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Toll of Unemployment
Unemployment Benefits
Health Insurance
 Confidence in Finding a New Job (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1242 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Rule Allows U.S. a Close Look at Big Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Azam Ahmed contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Large hedge funds, the very private investment outfits that borrow money to magnify their big financial bets, will be required for the first time to report detailed information on their investments and borrowings under a rule adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday.
But hedge funds and their advocates, after intense lobbying, won several important concessions from the commission's earlier proposal. The changes call for only the largest funds to report the most detailed information, eliminate any penalty of perjury for misleading reports and delay for six months the initial reports for all but the largest funds.
The data gathered from the new reporting will not be public; only regulators will have access to it. 
The filings will come two months after the close of a quarter, instead of the originally proposed 15 days after a quarter's end. The most detailed information will be required of funds with more than $1.5 billion in assets, rather than $1 billion as originally proposed. Hedge funds will not have to report on individual holdings in their portfolio, as originally contemplated. Instead they will have to report only on aggregate holdings in different types of assets, by the geographic location of their investments and describe how active the fund is in trading its portfolio. Small hedge funds, with less than $150 million in assets, will not have to report any detailed information on their holdings.
The required reporting, which grows out of the financial crisis three years ago, is meant to allow financial regulators to monitor the risks that the funds may pose to the nation's overall financial system, something that officials at the Federal Reserve, the Treasury Department and the S.E.C. did not have during the crisis.
For now, even the details of what the S.E.C. approved on Wednesday will be confidential. Because the new rules are a joint release with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the S.E.C. won't make public the form that it approved in a public meeting until after the C.F.T.C. approves it. The commodity commission is expected to vote ''within the next week,'' the S.E.C. said. The commission could approve the rule in private. A C.F.T.C. spokesman declined to comment.
The data will be visible only to regulators including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of the top federal financial regulators led by the Treasury secretary, which was created by the Dodd-Frank regulations.
The data collection ''follows the lessons learned during the financial crisis -- lessons about the importance of monitoring and reducing the possibility that a sudden shock or failure of a financial institution will cascade through the entire financial system,'' Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman said.
The commission, which now has four sitting members, voted unanimously to approve the rule.
Regulators passed a separate set of requirements this year for hedge funds to provide some information that would be made public. Those regulations required limited disclosures, however, detailing only general information about a fund's size, its largest investors and the fund's ''gatekeepers,'' including its auditors, the brokerage firms that help to execute its trades and the marketers that service the fund.
An S.E.C. official said that the commission might aggregate and publish some data on the size and scope of the hedge fund industry based on the confidential information, but it would not identify individual funds or advisers.
While anonymous information has some benefits, analysts will not have a chance to call attention to specific parts of the industry or individual firms that pose potential risks to themselves, their counterparties or segments of the entire industry.
Still, the new data could highlight industry-wide problems like an over-concentration in one type of investment. Had this data been more widely available before the financial crisis, regulators might have seen the risks posed by a concentration of mortgage-backed securities investments and related instruments that led to the 2008 crisis.
Under the new rules, all hedge funds with more than $500 million or more in assets must disclose how leveraged their investments are -- that is, the degree to which the size of the investments are enhanced using borrowed money. It would also look at how liquid, or quickly sold and converted into cash, they are.
Smaller hedge funds, with $150 million to $500 million in assets, will report their general fund strategy, what firms handle their trading and clearing operations, and their counterparty risk -- that is, what financial firm is on the other side of complicated bets like derivatives and which could stand to lose if the fund was unable to honor its obligations.
No funds will be required to report ''position information,'' or details on individual investment holdings, S.E.C. officials said, a change that was made in part because of comments received from hedge funds and others. Hedge funds with less than $150 million will not be required to file the new reports approved Wednesday.
Ms. Schapiro said only about 230 American-based hedge fund advisers would be subject to the strictest reporting rule. But those advisers handle more than an estimated 80 percent of the assets under management among all hedge funds.
Richard Baker, the president of the Managed Funds Association, a trade group representing hedge funds, said the group was ''disappointed that the commission was not able to focus the scope of the form to a more targeted set of data points.'' He also noted that considerable uncertainty would remain until fund managers knew if they faced different reporting requirements for portfolios overseen by the C.F.T.C.
Fund managers also expressed concern about whether the S.E.C. and other regulators would be able to keep their portfolio information confidential. Hedge funds closely guard their trading and investment strategies, fearing that rivals might try to anticipate and run ahead of the fund's trading. Alternatively, if a hedge fund held an illiquid investment, or one not easily sold, other traders might gang up to drive the price lower and force the fund to sell at a loss.
If approved as expected by the C.F.T.C., the largest hedge funds, those with more than $5 billion in assets, would be required to report the new information beginning at the end of next June. Smaller funds would be allowed until early 2013 to begin the reports. Industry lobbyists also sought to delay when the rules would take effect.
The S.E.C.'s rules also detail some disclosure requirements for private equity funds and ''liquidity funds,'' which generally are short-term or money-market funds. Liquidity fund managers with more than $1 billion in assets must follow rules similar to the large-firm reporting requirements for hedge funds, while private equity funds with more than $2 billion in assets are considered large funds.
The two types of funds have different reporting frequencies, however. Because money-market funds are short-term in nature and therefore turn over their investments frequently, the largest funds in that group must report within 15 days of the end of each quarter. Private equity funds, which generally take large stakes in companies and often act as part of a company's management, are only required to report annually, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year.
Online Correction: October 26, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article stated incorrectly when large hedge funds would be required to report information on their holdings. The information is due quarterly, not annually, and within 60 days of the end of the quarter, not 120 days of the end of a fiscal year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and the F.D.I.C.'s acting chairman, Martin Gruenberg, during the Financial Stability Oversight Council's meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (59%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (57%); BEN BERNANKE (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1243 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Black Support for Obama Is Steady and Strong

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Abdul Malik seems the prototype of a disenchanted Barack Obama voter.
Mr. Malik, 48, lost his job as a grading and landscape worker a year and a half ago, another victim of the housing bust. Since then, he has been searching for something, anything, to help make ends meet.
Yet, Mr. Malik, who is black, says he has every intention of again voting for President Obama next year. So does Bobby Hart, 46, a former construction worker here. And Dorothy Artis of Greensboro, N.C., who is looking for a job to help support her grandchildren while her daughter is deployed in Kuwait. And Larry Bennett, who worked for 27 years at Cooper Industries before he lost his job when his division moved out of state.
''I don't blame Obama,'' said Mr. Malik, who had never voted before 2008. ''I don't blame him at all.'' 
Despite a school of thought in Washington that Mr. Obama's support among blacks has weakened because of the poor economy and a sense of unmet expectations, interviews and public opinion surveys show that his standing remains remarkably strong among African-Americans.
The question now for the Obama campaign is whether it can energize those voters -- many of whom were drawn to the polls for the first time in 2008 by the historic nature of his candidacy coupled with an aggressive registration program -- even with a rate of joblessness among blacks that far exceeds national figures.
The president himself, at a high-end Los Angeles fund-raiser Monday after a visit to an ethnically mixed neighborhood, warned donors like the actor Will Smith and Magic Johnson that the coming presidential election ''will not be as sexy as the first one,'' suggesting it might lack the electricity that motivated many black voters in 2008.
''The challenge is going to be for the people who were completely inspired by him in 2008 who were atypical voters -- to get those people to come back out and vote for him in 2012,'' said Jamal Simmons, a Democratic strategist who worked with the Gore campaign in 2000 and the Obama campaign in 2008.
Obama campaign officials say they recognize the difficulty of renewing the enthusiasm that spurred black turnout, but they also say there are still new black voters to be reached. Democratic campaign strategists say they also expect African-Americans to be motivated to vote by Republican attacks on the president and the desire to make certain that Mr. Obama's historic tenure in the White House extends beyond one term. They are already building staffs in swing states with significant black populations, like Florida, North Carolina and Virginia, for an intensive effort called Operation Vote, which will focus on African-Americans, women and Hispanics.
''Already the foundation is beginning to eclipse what they did in 2008,'' said Mike Henry, campaign manager for former Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia, a Democrat running for the Senate.
Democratic candidates have historically struggled to elevate turnout among blacks, and 2008 was the first time nationally that the black share of the electorate was slightly more than the black share of the voting-age population. In North Carolina, where more than one in five residents are black, Mr. Obama scored perhaps his most unlikely victory with the help of what his campaign said were more than 300,000 black voters who went to the polls for the first time. He needed almost all of them, winning the state by fewer than 14,000 votes out of the more than 4 million cast.
Some believe the president will be hard-pressed to reproduce those results, with a political narrative emerging in Washington that African-Americans have begun to sour on the president. Various black leaders -- including Representative Maxine Waters of California, the television host Tavis Smiley and Cornel West, a prominent professor -- have criticized Mr. Obama for what they see as not doing enough for black Americans. Mr. Obama fed the story line in a speech last month to the Congressional Black Caucus, when he said African-Americans should ''stop crying'' and fight for his jobs bill.
Outside Washington, however, the story is markedly different. Mr. Obama's support among African-Americans appears strikingly strong, even among many who are out of work, who might be expected to complain the loudest.
In a recent Pew Research Center poll, black voters preferred Mr. Obama 95 percent to 3 percent over Mitt Romney, ''which is at least the margin he got in 2008,'' said Michael Dimock, associate director for research at Pew. ''There's no erosion at all.''
Even more noteworthy, less than 10 percent of black voters in a New York Times/CBS News survey taken last month said that Mr. Obama had failed to meet their expectations as president, while nearly 3 in 10 said he had exceeded expectations. Among nonblack voters, 4 in 10 said he performed worse than expected, while only 5 percent said he had done better.
For many African-Americans, the main reason to support Mr. Obama is easy to cite. They argue that the modern Republican Party protects the rich at the expense of the poor, is hostile to social programs and thinks the way to fix the economy is solely through a trickle-down approach.
''We already know what the Republican Party is offering,'' said Mr. Bennett, 57, the former Cooper Industries employee, a plant supervisor before he lost his job. ''And we don't want that.''
Mr. Hart said, ''Look at the choice we got with those Republicans.''
Beyond issues, many African-Americans feel an emotional connection to Mr. Obama that seems unshakable, saying that nothing can compare with seeing someone who looks like them in the White House.
That bond still brings tears to the eyes of Sheila Gorham, an elementary school principal in Greensboro, when she talks about the first time she saw Mr. Obama in Charlotte in 2008.
''It was pouring rain and I stood out there with my sister,'' she said. It was only one day before the election, and Mr. Obama's grandmother had just died. ''He was solemn,'' Ms. Gorham said. But ''he talked about how change was going to come.''
This phenomenon is the flip side of the virulent opposition to Mr. Obama that pollsters believe is sometimes connected to his race. It is impossible to know how many voters make up their minds even partly because of race and what the net effect on Mr. Obama's chances will be. In the 2008 national exit poll, one in five voters said that race played a factor in their vote, but extrapolating how that hurts or helps Mr. Obama is tricky. While many African-Americans may be inclined to vote for Mr. Obama because he is black, there are substantial numbers of white voters who might be less likely to do so for the same reason, pollsters say.
To improve Mr. Obama's chances, campaign officials say they are planning outreach in places where black voters -- and women and Hispanic voters -- are known to congregate.
Sitting in a chair at the Ultimate Choice Barber Shop in Charlotte, Brian Gainey, 28, a truck driver, initially hesitated when asked if he was going to vote again for Mr. Obama.
''Yes,'' he said finally, adding: ''I'd almost like to see someone else win though. Maybe then they'll see how much better Obama was than whoever will come after him.''
To Lemar Foster Jr., 48, a barber at Ultimate Choice, the Obama family epitomizes a bigger cultural change. ''It's like we got the Cosbys in the White House,'' said Mr. Foster, referring to the fictional affluent black family headed by Bill Cosby in the 1980s television show. ''I grew up with 'Sanford and Son' '' -- a show rife with demeaning stereotypes.
''So having the Obamas in the White House?'' he asked. ''Yeah, I'm very proud. And I'm definitely voting for him again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama campaigned last week in Jamestown, N.C. Mr. Obama is hoping to repeat his 2008 victory in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHART: Changes in Black Voter Turnout: The 2008 election was the first time that black voters in the United States made up a slightly larger share of the electorate than their share of the population. (Source: U.S. Census) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); WILL SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1244 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Fix for No Child Left Behind

 BODY:
The revised No Child Left Behind Actthat passed out of the Senate education committee last week goes too far in relaxing state accountability and federal oversight of student achievement. The business community, civil rights groups and advocates of disabled children are rightly worried that the rewrite of the law would particularly hurt underprivileged children. 
The bill's main sponsors -- Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat of Iowa, and Senator Mike Enzi, a Republican of Wyoming -- should take the criticism to heart and go back to the drawing board.
The original No Child Left Behind Act of 2002 is far from perfect. The Obama administration recognized that in September when it said that it would waive some of the law's requirements for states that agree to several reforms, like creating new programs to overhaul the worst schools and comprehensive teacher evaluation systems.
The waiver plan would allow states to be rated on student growth on math and reading tests instead of simply counting up the percentages of students who reach proficiency on those tests. It would also require states to set goals for all schools and plan for closing achievement gaps and end the pass-fail system under which high-performing schools are rated as needing improvement if one racial or economic subgroup fails to reach the achievement target.
The plan encourages states to embrace data-driven systems and teacher-evaluation systems that take student achievement into account. But it has not been well received in the Senate, where some lawmakers seem to feel as if it usurps legislative power.
The Harkin-Enzi bill lowers the bar for reform and reduces federal pressure on the states. It focuses only on the bottom 5 percent of schools, essentially allowing states to do as they please with the rest. It backs away from requiring states to have clear student achievement targets for all schools, and does not require most schools to evaluate teachers rigorously.
Lawmakers are right that No Child Left Behind needs to be overhauled. But Congress needs to do this carefully, without retreating from core provisions that require states to do better by children in return for federal aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MIKE ENZI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1245 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 27, 1904 | New York City Subway System Opens

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Oct. 27, 1904, the first rapid transit subway, the Interborough Rapid Transit, opened in New York City. 

 BODY:
 On Oct. 27, 1904, the first rapid transit subway, the Interborough Rapid Transit (I.R.T.), opened in New York City. The line ran approximately nine miles from City Hall north to Grand Central Station, then west to Times Square and up the West Side to 145th Street.

The New York Times described the excitement among city dwellers for the subway's opening: "For the first time in his life Father Knickerbocker went underground yesterday; went underground, he and his children, to the number of 150,000, amid the tooting of whistles and the firing of salutes, for a first ride in a subway which for years had been scoffed at as an impossibility."
The first underground railway system, the Metropolitan Railway, opened in London in 1863. The trains ran on steam, which caused problems in the tunnels, but the system proved popular. A competing London metro system introduced electric trains in 1890, which made underground transit more practical.
Though the first subway in the United States opened in 1897 in Boston, New York eventually became the American city most associated with underground transportation. After receiving city contracts in 1913, the I.R.T. and rival Brooklyn Rapid Transit (B.R.T.) increased the number of subway lines. These make up most of the modern subway lines the city has today. 
In 1932, New York City formed the Independent Subway System (IND), taking over the I.R.T. and its remaining private competitor, Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit, in 1940. New York subway riders can still see remnants of the old subway system.
Connect to Today:
Today, the New York City Subway system has 22 interconnected routes and three shuttles running more than 200 miles among 468 stations, nearly as many stations as there are in the rest of the United States combined. In recent years, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates the subway and other transportation in New York, used a series of fare hikes, layoffs and other cost-cutting measures to cope with budget woes.
In addition to increasing fares, reducing service, laying off more workers, or cutting maintenance and construction projects like the Second Avenue Subway, what other options do you think the M.T.A. might pursue to keep costs down yet ensure an efficient public transit system in New York City? In general, as the need for pubic transportation increases in the 21st century, what do you think cities around the world can do to maintain or improve infrastructure in the face of economic challenges?
Learn more about what happened in history on Oct. 27
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
The Subway in Pictures
        
Poetry Pairing | Images of Transit Riders
        
Introducing SchoolBook
        
The Bronx Zoo Cobra, Live and on Twitter
        
A New York City Matrix

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); TRAINS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); LAYOFFS (66%); BUDGETS (61%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) M.T.A; New York City; subway system; transit; transportation; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



1246 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Lazard's Quarterly Earnings Drop 15%

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The independent investment bank's core mergers advisory unit showed a strong gain in revenue, but its business of advising on stock offerings and private equity fund-raising slowed considerably. 

 BODY:
8:36 a.m. | Updated 
Lazard said on Thursday that its third-quarter earnings fell 15 percent from the period a year earlier, as a slowdown in private equity fund closings and restructurings dragged down its core advisory business.
The firm said it earned $52.9 million for the quarter on a fully exchanged basis, as its core business operating revenue rose only slightly, to $470.3 million. The results exclude a pretax gain of $18.2 million from the firm's repurchase of a subordinated convertible promissory note.
Known for putting together mergers and acquisitions, Lazard is often seen as an indicator of the health of the deal economy. Its third-quarter results show that, even as deal activity persisted despite market volatility, stock offerings slowed.
"This is certainly a challenging environment," Matthieu Bucaille, Lazard's chief financial officer, said in an interview by phone. "We have to remain cautious, but our business model is well positioned."
Lazard's capital markets advisory unit reported a 41 percent decline in revenue for the quarter, to $16.4 million, owing largely to fewer fund closings by the firm's private fund advisory group. But a paucity in fund closings by private equity firms, as well as initial public offerings and follow-on stock sales by public companes, also affected the results.
Still, the firm's main mergers advisory business reported a 24 percent gain in revenue, to $199.1 million. 
Among the deals Lazard advised on that were completed in the quarter were Tognum's 3.2 billion euro takeover by Daimler and Rolls Royce, and Citadel Broadcasting's $2.5 billion sale to Cumulus Media. Investment banks receive the bulk of their fees once a transaction is finished.
Deals that were announced in the quarter included Medco Health Solution's $29 billion acquisition by Express Scripts; Google's $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola Mobility; and Nortel's $4.5 billion sale of patents to a consortium that included Apple and Microsoft.
Still, Mr. Bucaille said that until the sometimes violent market swings of recent months subside, the other factors that drive mergers -- strong corporate balance sheets and a desire for growth among them -- would remain muted. 
"Until we see volatility diminishing," he said, "we will remain cautious on the M.&A. cycle."
Lazard's restructuring division, one of the biggest in the industry, posted a decline in revenue, to $38.1 million. Companies have been making fewer trips to bankruptcy court for much of the year, though looming debt maturities are expected to keep such advisory businesses occupied in the coming months.
The advisory unit also includes a somewhat unusual team as well, one that advises governments on various matters. That group's assignments include advising the Greek government in its negotiations with creditors, the United States government in its holdings of General Motors and the union representing United States postal workers.
Lazard's other main business, asset management, grew 4 percent, to $216.7 million. Assets under management declined about 5 percent because of falling markets and foreign exchange depreciation, with about $1.1 billion in net outflows for the quarter. A 9 percent gain in management fees was partially offset by a 39 percent fall in incentive fees. 

        
Deal-Making Lifts Lazard and Evercore
        
Lazard Profit Rises 23%, but Misses Estimates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEBT NOTES (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PATENTS (61%) Lazard; quarterly earnings; Lazard Llc; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: TOGNUM AG (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); GOOGLE INC (53%); CUMULUS MEDIA INC (53%); CITADEL BROADCASTING CORP (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Lazard Llc

TICKER: TGM (FRA) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); CMLS (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1247 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Discontent Over the State of College Admissions

BYLINE: REBECCA R. RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: A panel on Wednesday at the College Board's conference in New York City explored the flaws of the current college admissions system. 

 BODY:
"We should be ashamed," Lloyd Thacker, executive director of the Education Conservancy, told a roomful of college counselors and admissions staff on Wednesday. Mr. Thacker was speaking on a panel titled "The Case for Change in College Admissions," part of the College Board's 2011 conference in New York City.
Mr. Thacker and Jerome A. Lucido, executive director of the University of Southern California Center for Enrollment Research, Policy, and Practice, presented findings of a survey they conducted in January in which 180 professionals assessed the state of college admissions.
After declaring the current system deeply flawed - principally for its economic and social stratification - Mr. Thacker and Mr. Lucido outlined their suggestions for improvement.
"Let's put our idealistic hats on," Mr. Lucido said. The two men proposed that each campus expand its freshman intake, growing its student population; that schools collectively reduce their merit aid awards by 10 percent and shift that financing into need-based aid; and that colleges across the country reduce their recruitment. "Do we need 40,000 applications to choose a class of 1,000?" Mr. Lucido asked, skeptically.
Mr. Thacker supported his co-presenter's points. "We have athletic conferences that restrict the amount of money we give to athletes, and yet we don't have restrictions surrounding merit aid," he said.
The two also suggested that colleges collaborate to standardize admissions due dates and practices, eliminating the patchwork of early and regular application deadlines.
"Similar to the idea of having a nutrition label on food, that's what we want to achieve for college," said Mr. Thacker.
An audience member spoke up in response with a hypothetical version of one such label. "Warning: Fafsa application may be bad for your health?"
Most others taking in the presentation voiced hearty agreement with the suggestions, particularly the standardization of application deadlines.
"At the heart of it, early decision is flawed," one counselor from Washington, D.C. said. "At that stage, students are not ready to make a decision. We need to emphasize that the college choice is a process and it needs to be thoughtful and introspective."
Philip Ballinger, director of admissions at the University of Washington, stood and praised the panel for prompting a broader sort of introspection: "It's not often colleges have these opportunities for self-reflection," Mr. Ballinger said. "Thank you."

        
A Nuanced Take in the Debate Over the Value of a Liberal Arts Diploma
        
That Merit-Based Aid Offer Is Final, Universities Insist
        
The Choice at the College Board Conference
        
A Folk Hero Crosses the Aisle
        
Average SAT Scores Drop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); FOOD LABELING (69%) College Board; forum 2011 New York; Lloyd Thacker

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1248 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Fringe of Protest

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ


HIGHLIGHT: On the surface, the differences between Occupy Wall Street and the Tea Party are evident. Yet Nina Berman, who has photographed protests involving both groups, found some shared symbolism. 

 BODY:
Nina Berman was intrigued by the idea of protest in this age, so when she heard about a nascent uprising that was gaining national momentum, she had to check it out.
"I had an open mind," she said. "I was wondering what made them tick, who showed up and what united them. Were they right wing? Did they draw from the left and the middle? Was it as crazy as people made it out to be?"
She was talking about the Tea Party movement, which she photographed at a huge rally in Washington in 2010. A year later, she had some of the same questions about the throngs that streamed into Lower Manhattan as part of the Occupy Wall Street protests. As she has discovered, though there are obvious differences in ideologies, the groups have some similarities. Both have staked a claim to be defenders of grass-roots values. And at times their critics have dismissed both as out of step with the rest of the nation.
Frankly, when she first heard of the young protesters descending upon Zuccotti Park, she reacted like a New Yorker.
She thought it was a fringe thing.
"When you see all these young people jumping around and dancing with their clothes half off, you think they're just having a blast," she said. "I didn't take it seriously. But then I realized, in my own head, we have come to think of any act outside the norm as somehow fringe. New York has become in many ways a conformist town. I had to look at my own reactions more carefully."
These are questions that have informed her own photographic work over the years, where she has displayed a decidedly political point of view. Her series "Homeland" looks at what she sees as the militarization of America after the Sept. 11 attacks. In "Hedge," the monitors of hedge fund traders are multicolored clues to global financial crisis.
As she watched the New York protests, she noticed the numbers - the likes of which she had not seen in the city on any sustained basis. She found people who were hardly young and some who were financial executives themselves. Her interest was drawn to moments she was not seeing in the daily press coverage. She was not looking for confrontation pictures, since she thought that was a "minor" aspect.
"You can go on for hours and then have 10 minutes of a pocket of violence and that becomes representative of the five hours before," she said.
Her take was more personal, finding individual acts of "creative protest" in the streets.
"There was this woman with a red umbrella in the street," she said. "Right after the mayor and the manager of the park said they were not going to descend on the park, she stood up in the middle of the street and did this drum majorette routine with her umbrella."
When she looked at her recent pictures and those of Tea Party adherents, the differences were evident upon first impression. The Tea Party - which was better organized and financed - was almost "exclusively white," older and better off financially. And their protest, she said, had a sharper edge, often resorting to images that mocked President Obama.
"A lot of their symbolism is about defacing," she said. "They make him into a Joker, in whiteface, or as a wild animal in feathers."
Yet there is some shared symbolism.
"They both hoist the American flag," she said. "I find that fascinating. In some ways, it means the same thing. They both want liberty and feel tyrannized and put upon. They both feel underrepresented. And they both hoist the flag as a way to show they deserve something that relates in one way or another to the founding principles.
"If you got individuals from both camps in conversation, they would find themselves more similar than they seem."

        
'Round Midnight with Librado Romero
        
Stephen Crowley's Monument to Washington
        
The Faces of a Towering Project
        
Polaroids, Bedsheets and Backdrops
        
On the Road, Embracing the Distance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); MAYORS (69%); TERRORISM (65%); RIOTS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) D.C.; David Gonzalez; Hedge; Homeland; New York City; Nina Berman; Occupy Wall Street; Politics; Protests; Showcase; Tea Party; Tea Party Movement; Washington; Zuccotti Park; Berman, Nina; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Photography; Manhattan (NYC); Zuccotti Park (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: Berman, Nina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC); Zuccotti Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1249 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Do You Trust Your Government?

BYLINE: SUSANNAH L. GRIFFEE and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: A new poll finds that Americans generally do not trust the government and believe that things are on the wrong track. Where do you stand? 

 BODY:
In "New Poll Finds a Deep Distrust of Government," Jeff Zeleny and Megan Thee-Brenan report on the results of a recent nationwide telephone poll:
Almost half of the public thinks the sentiment at the root of the Occupy movement generally reflects the views of most Americans.
With nearly all Americans remaining fearful that the economy is stagnating or deteriorating further, two-thirds of the public said that wealth should be distributed more evenly in the country. Seven in 10 Americans think the policies of Congressional Republicans favor the rich. Two-thirds object to tax cuts for corporations and a similar number prefer increasing income taxes on millionaires.
The poll findings underscore a dissatisfaction and restlessness heading into the election season that has been highlighted through competing voices from the Occupy Wall Street and Tea Party movements, a broad anti-Washington sentiment and the crosscurrents inside both parties about the best way forward.
Not only do 89 percent of Americans say they distrust government to do the right thing, but 74 percent say the country is on the wrong track and 84 percent disapprove of Congress - warnings for Democrats and Republicans alike.
Students: Tell us whether or not you trust the government to make good decisions about economic and other policies. Do you identify with the Tea Party, Occupy Wall Street or another political movement? How would you answer the main poll questions as to whether you approve or disapprove of the president and Congress? Do you think the country is going in the right or wrong direction? What would you like to see change?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Candidates and Campaigns: Analyzing the 2012 Presidential Field
        
Have You Lost Faith in Government?
        
Character vs. Characterization: Examining How Candidates and Politicians Are Defined
        
'Pass This Jobs Bill'
        
Get With the Programs: Exploring the Implications of Federal Budget Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGET CUTS (55%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) government; Obama; politics; Student Opinion

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1250 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Boomer Parent's Lament

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Given the state of the economy, nothing will serve the younger generation better than a sense of self-worth. 

 BODY:
What we talk about when we talk about tomorrow is the great fear that our kids will never find their way, now that opportunity is just another word for no. By we, I mean parents of a certain age. 
I fell into one of these conversations a few weeks ago with a mother of two grown children, both boys, both graduates from terrific universities, both shackled to college loans as heavy a ship's anchor. 
Her sons jumped from commencement to the real world full of springy confidence. But now, two years after graduation, after hundreds of rejections, after their resumes bounced back like boomerangs to the head, they were living at home, and every day brought another dent to their self-confidence. 
"What do I tell them?" she asked. You can't lie. You can't remind them how special there are, because that was part of the problem. The hope reflex seems phony. I was at a loss to say anything beyond an expression of sympathy. 
Later, though, I thought of something obvious: self-worth should never be tied to net worth. Easy to say, of course, an ancient observation. But I was struck by a failing of many fellow parents of recession-whacked Millennials. For all the efforts to raise hyper-achievers, we didn't teach enough of a basic survival skill - to find joy in simple things not connected to a grade, a trophy or a job.

What was missing in the life message of child-raising was some of the counter-cultural swagger in that 2005 commencement speech by Steve Jobs, the one that made the viral video rounds after his death. If you listen to the whole speech, it is what he says at the end that seems so apt for these years of diminished expectations. "Stay hungry," Jobs said, borrowing an admonition from the creators of The Whole Earth Catalogue, an early bible for him, and equally important, "Stay foolish."
Hungry is the easy part. Employment rates and starting salaries have fallen off a cliff for new college graduates in the last two years. One study found that 55 percent of humanities majors newly released from school are either not working or hold jobs that require no college degree. I know a Stanford honors graduate in English literature who works as a nanny, and a University of Michigan political science graduate on the night shift at an Amazon warehouse. Their friends call them lucky. 
There is all sorts of topical journalism on this issue. Last week brought a New York magazine piece by Noreen Malone, a self-snarky confessional with these words on the cover: "Sucks to Be Us: Coming of Age in Post-Hope America."
"We grew up, all the way through college, with everything seeming so ripe and possible," Malone writes. She defines the Millennials this way: "We are self-centered and convinced of our specialness and unaccustomed to being denied."
There were those soccer games with no losers or winners, with everybody getting a trophy at season's end. (Even if most parents knew the score.) And all those small bodies trudging home with ridiculously heavy backpacks, loaded down in many cases with SAT prep material for children yet to lose their front teeth. The summertime menu included homework camp. How fun!
All of the above was in service to a child prepared to enter a competitive and punishing world - that is, prepared in a certain way, only for things that could be controlled and quantified. 
"It might be hard, in fact, to create a generation more metaphysically ill-equipped to adjust" to the economic realities of 2011, Malone writes. 
Defining an entire generation in short-hand is something trendy magazines always do. Twenty years ago, there was a rush of silly stories about how a single woman past a certain age had a better chance of getting killed by terrorists than finding a suitable spouse. But Malone makes some points that ring true. 
She quotes a friend, Lael Goodman, with the kind of complaint that will sound familiar to many people just out of college. "The worst thing is that I've always gotten self-worth from performance, especially good grades. But now that I can't get a job, I feel worthless."
Goodman nails it - the self-worth from performance. And for that, we parents have to take the blame. Baby Boomers who rejected "Mad Men" conformity groomed their offspring to expect only the best, to climb a ladder that would end in startups cranking out stock-option millionaires. 
My father was a child of the Great Depression, raised by a widowed mother living above a little bar in Chicago. He never tried to make himself out to be more virtuous than anyone else because he had lived through hard times. His parenting was by example. As such, my lasting image is of him making meatballs and a thick spaghetti sauce on Saturday night, while going through a stack of Neil Diamond and Frank Sinatra records. He was never happier.
Maybe if I knew that our children would be coming of age in an economy that would crush even the best and brightest among them, I would have cared a little less about their score on an advanced placement history test, and a little more about helping them find happiness in moments at the margin. I hope many of them are doing just that - without our help.

        
Let the Children Play (Some More)
        
End of (School) Year Frenzy
        
Moving Beyond the Cold War Coach
        
The 'Enabling Violation' of International Adoption
        
The Power of Positive Coaching

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); CHILDREN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (75%); PARENTING (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%) children; graduates; job market; Parenting; school; self-worth; Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1251 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In Famine, Vouchers Can Be Tickets to Survival

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: With food aid to Somalia blocked by Islamist militants, aids groups are using vouchers to help some refugees get food to survive. 

 BODY:
The town of Dhobley, Somalia, sits at the gateway of hell. Just west of Dhobley is the border with Kenya, and the road to Dadaab, which hosts a giant complex of refugee camps; Dhobley has become the last stop in Somalia for a growing stream of desperate, starving people in flight from famine. In Dhobley, as well, drought has ruined crops and felled cows. There is no government to help. The town is a battleground; control of Dhobley has teetered between the Shabaab Islamist militant group and government forces. Shabaab has blocked food aid from entering Dhobley and burned a food truck, but soldiers from all sides have stolen food meant for the destitute. The usual street life of an African village - children playing, women laughing together - has vanished. Gunshots are a constant background noise - "like birds singing," said Tracy Stover, the emergency coordinator in Dadaab for the humanitarian group World Concern.
It is too dangerous for aid workers to come to Dhobley. Food aid is not getting through. Yet some in Dhobley are eating.
World Concern, a Seattle-based Christian humanitarian group, and its Somali partner, the African Rescue Committee, provide 1,800 families every two weeks with rice, beans, cooking oil, salt and sugar for their tea. The recipients are both residents and families from elsewhere in Somalia who have fled to Dhobley. Another 800 families a week, mostly the displaced who have come to Dhobley, get goods such as mosquito nets, pots, spoons, jerry cans for water, sleeping mats and plastic sheeting.
People are getting these goods very much like they always have: they go shopping. With money from the Canadian Foodgrains Bank, an association of churches, World Concern provides people with vouchers they can use in the shops of selected local merchants. The merchants were carefully chosen, representing all the clans in Dhobley. The African Rescue Committee distributes the vouchers. When the merchants can travel to the border, they present the vouchers they have collected, which are matched against their duplicates. Each merchant gets a promissory note. The actual reimbursement comes through an electronic transfer from Nairobi to an account the merchants set up in a bank in Dhobley.
Providing hungry people with money, obviously, is no solution if there is no food to be bought. But in Dhobley, the market is working - or would be, if people could afford to buy anything. Although every foodstuff except salt is imported, neither war nor famine has interrupted the supply chain of commercial goods reaching Dhobley. "If they have 3 or 4 days notice, merchants have no difficulty meeting supply," said Stephen Houston, the disaster manager for World Concern. "We've been able to keep the vouchers flowing through almost this whole period."
For decades, emergency food aid has meant sacks of grain or legumes and huge cans of cooking oil. The United States, by far the world's largest donor of food aid, began large food donations because the government was buying up surplus crops to keep prices high for producers; sending the grain abroad was a way to keep it off the market. What became the Food for Peace program started in 1954 as the Agricultural Trade Development Assistance Act.
Shipping food abroad may have been an effective way to support grain prices, but as aid to the hungry, it has always been a deeply flawed idea. It is slow. Once an emergency is recognized, the government must solicit bids, gather the food and put it on a ship. It can take from 4 to 6 months to get food into the mouths of people who need it. Now the United States Agency for International Development and other groups are saving time by shipping food to storage facilities in key places - for example, in Mombasa, Kenya. But even from there, it can take weeks to arrive where it is needed.
Sending food from the United States is also expensive. The U.S. food aid program requires that food be shipped from America, and 75 percent of it must sail on American ships. Half or more of the cost of food aid goes to transport, storage and handling. That percentage is rising as the price of oil goes up and because emergencies increasingly take place inland, in places that are expensive to reach, such as Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia.
Then there is the security problem. Like Dhobley, many places are no-go zones for aid workers for long stretches. When the food trucks do arrive, the crowd that surges around them is chaotic and often violent. The people who need the food most are not the ones likely to succeed in pushing themselves to the front of the line.
Waiting in line for sacks of grain is also demeaning. Since the choice of food sent is largely determined by agribusiness in the United States, the food may not be the most nutritious or familiar to the people who will eat it.
Finally, food aid, while helping individuals, can hurt the economy around them. Tensions between the displaced and the people who host them usually run high - some families in Dhobley are hosting 20 people in their houses, said a Dhobley resident interviewed by Arthur Nazaryan, a photographer who is documenting the crisis in the region. Food aid makes these tensions worse - farmers find their market undercut by free food; local merchants are bypassed. This is a big problem; refugees need communities to host them, and none will do so if they will so clearly lose in the process.
Except for the United States, most nations around the world that donate food for emergencies are moving towards giving cash or vouchers. The change solves many of the problems that affect in-kind food aid. Using cash or vouchers is faster and cheaper. Nothing has to physically move: indeed, as Africa moves to banking by cell phone, the whole process can be accomplished by text. It is more dignified and gives families greater choice. And it is a form of aid that helps a whole village. "One thing you accomplish by using local merchants and splitting the distribution between (the displaced) and the host community is that the benefits get spread around," says Houston.
In Dhobley, World Concern's program adds to the town's economy in two ways. Vouchers go to the displaced and also to local families in the greatest need, with the names chosen by the community. This is also possible with bags of food, of course, but it is less flexible. Just as important, merchants are selling the goods and the money is circulating in the village.
Vouchers and cash payments are not free of logistical headaches. Fraud is a big concern. So far, World Concern has seen none in Dhobley. Vouchers are numbered and duplicates held; the voucher needs to match its twin for the merchant to get paid. Another possible problem is that merchants may not give buyers full value. The solution is careful monitoring, but this has become a casualty of the security problems in Dhobley. Houston said that World Concern is hiring secret shoppers to provide some level of vigilance.
Vouchers and cash don't work in every circumstance - there must be food available to begin with, whether locally grown or not. Also, people who are severely malnourished need specific high-nutrition foods, which are unlikely to be available in the local market. Nor will it work when the market is so small that the vouchers would cause inflation, which would damage the purchasing power of those who don't receive vouchers.
The increasing use of cash or vouchers in emergency aid parallels a similar shift in how countries provide long-term help to their poor. In the past few years, traditional methods of fighting poverty have been upended by a new idea: give the poor cash - conditioned on behaviors such as keeping their children in school that will help the next generation stay out of poverty. Led by Mexico and Brazil, dozens of countries around the world are now abandoning the subsidy of tortillas or milk and giving the poor money instead. They are finding it is more efficient, less prone to politicization and corruption and more secure, as transfers can be done with banking cards. Studies show that payments of this kind help lift everyone in a village, whether they are direct beneficiaries or not.
In emergency aid, the United States is the big holdout; grain shipments make up all but a tiny percentage of American emergency food aid. On Wednesday I'll examine another creative way to provide food aid, and look at why American food aid has been so inefficient - and why that might be changing.

        
For Refugees, the Price of Dignity
        
Beyond Refugee Camps, a Better Way
        
Food's New Foot Soldiers
        
Can Big Food Regulate Itself? Fat Chance
        
Make Food Choices Simple: Cook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); FAMINE (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRAIN FARMING (89%); RETAILERS (86%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (77%); STARVATION (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); DROUGHT (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); CHILDREN (74%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (70%); RELIGION (66%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (64%); DEBT NOTES (63%) Famine; Food; food aid; Kenya; Somalia; vouchers; Food Aid; Vouchers; African Rescue Committee; Canadian Foodgrains Bank; World Concern; Fixes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) SOMALIA (99%); KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Kenya; Somalia

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1252 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Prado to Stay Open Seven Days a Week

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY


HIGHLIGHT: The move comes at a time when many museums are making cuts. 

 BODY:
At a time when many museums in the United States and Europe have made cuts in the face of weakened endowments and dwindling public subsidies, the Pradoin Madrid announced Thursday that it planned to increase its hours to remain open seven days a week.
The museum will join several others in Europe and a few in the United States like the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, in staying open every day. (The Prado, which has a general entry fee of 10 euros (about $14), will remain open even on Good Friday, when it has traditionally been closed; it will be closed only three days a year, Jan. 1, May 1 and Dec. 25.) Prado officials said the decision was part of a plan to make more money from entry fees, with a goal of eventually generating 60 percent of its operating budget through such fees and other income to help offset reductions in government support as European economies sputter.
The expanded hours begin Nov. 8 for galleries housing a special exhibition, "The Hermitage in the Prado," and Jan. 16 for the museum's permanent collection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); PAINTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Art; Finances; Museums; Prado Museum; Madrid (Spain); art & design

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%) Prado Museum

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPE (93%) Madrid (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1253 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Back to Where We Began. Finally.

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The American economy has finally reached the size it was before the recession began four years ago, according to the latest gross domestic product report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. 

 BODY:
The American economy has finally reached the size it was before the recession began four years ago, according to the latest gross domestic product report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
That may sound like good news, but it's long overdue, and frankly not good enough. If the economy were functioning normally, it would be significantly today than it was before the recession began.
Here's a look at the level of gross domestic product over the last decade:
It has taken 15 quarters for the economy to merely recover the ground lost to the recession. That is significantly longer than in every other recession/recovery period since World War II. In the previous 10 recessions, the average number of quarters it took to return to the prerecession peak was 5.2, with a high of 8 quarters after the recession in the 1970s.


Peak G.D.P. quarterQuarter when prerecession peak surpassedQuarters until surpassed	November 1948(IV)October 1949 (IV)1948 Q41950 Q15	July 1953(II)May 1954 (II)1953 Q21954 Q46	August 1957(III)April 1958 (II)1957 Q31958 Q45	April 1960(II)February 1961 (I)1960 Q11961 Q25	December 1969(IV)November 1970 (IV)1969 Q31970 Q34	November 1973(IV)March 1975 (I)1973 Q41975 Q48	January 1980(I)July 1980 (III)1980 Q11981 Q14	July 1981(III)November 1982 (IV)1981 Q31983 Q27	July 1990(III)March 1991(I)1990 Q21991 Q46	March 2001(I)November 2001 (IV)2000 Q42001 Q22	December 2007 (IV)June 2009 (II)2007 Q42011 Q315	Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and Vice President Joe Biden's former economic adviser, has written up some additional thoughts on the significance of these numbers. He observes: 
[R]egaining the peak is just a proximate goal. What we've really lost here is the trillions in output between potential GDP (how the economy would have done absent the recession) and actual GDP. That's the actual cost of the downturn-the output, jobs, incomes, opportunities, even careers, that were lost in the Great Recession.

        
After the Fall(s)
        
Still Playing Catch-Up, Across the Economy
        
On Debt Talks, a Lose-Lose-Lose-Lose Situation
        
Yes, a Recovery Did Begin
        
Shrinking Like It's 1958

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); RECESSION (94%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (54%) business cycle; Great Recession; Gross Domestic Product; historical comparisons; recovery; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1254 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds That Immigrants Are Central to Long Island Economy

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The report, using census data, found that immigrant households on the island made an annual income not far behind that of American-born families. 

 BODY:
Immigrants, those who are here legally and illegally, are important contributors to the economy on Long Island and are a relatively affluent group, according to a report to be released on Thursday. 
The median income for a family with at least one immigrant adult was $98,000, compared with $110,000 for families headed by American-born adults, the report by the Fiscal Policy Institute said.
The report, "New Americans on Long Island" (see also below), states that in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, two of the country's 50 most affluent counties, immigrants represent about 16 percent of the population and add about 17 percent of value to the economy through their work.
The Fiscal Policy Institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and advocacy group - based its findings on Census Bureau data from 2009 and 2010. 
Illegal immigration, especially as it contributes to the pool of day laborers, has been a flashpoint on Long Island with some towns aggressively policing gathering spots for immigrants seeking temporary jobs. 
In 2008, an unarmed Ecuadorean immigrant, Marcelo Lucero, was stabbed to death by a group of teenagers in a racially motivated attack that shone a spotlight on anti-Hispanic crime on Long Island. 
Advocates for immigrants said that the report helps debunk arguments made by some elected officials on Long Island that immigrants are a financial drain and instead shows that they are an integral part of the region's economy. 
"Immigrants are home owners, business owners, entrepreneurs, hard workers," said Maryann Slutsky, director of Long Island Wins
, an immigrant advocacy group.
Indeed, immigrants perform a variety of jobs, and are slightly overrepresented in jobs in the professional and health fields, though they are very overrepresented in low-income service jobs, according to the Fiscal Police Institute's study.
Immigrants are also small business owners, with 22 percent of all Long Island small businesses owned by immigrants. Most immigrants live in homes they own - 75 percent, compared with 86 percent of United States-born residents in Long Island - and they pay roughly the same amount as native-born Americans in property taxes. The study reports that many illegal immigrants work in service, while a small number work in construction; over half pay taxes on their income, the study said.
Long Island's immigrant population is also diverse. 
Immigrants from El Salvador are the largest concentration, representing 12 percent of immigrants, followed by those from India, Italy and the Dominican Republic. Natives of Mexico make up only 3 percent of Long Island's immigrant population.
Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, who has taken a hard line on illegal immigration, contended that the study was done by a "left-leaning" group that did not adequately distinguish between documented and illegal immigrants. 
"No one is denying that legal immigration contributes to our culture and our economy," Mr. Levy said in an interview. "It looks like selective data was put into this study omitting the drain on services that come about from the illegal population."
But David Kallick, the director of the Fiscal Policy Insitute's Immigrant Research Initiative, said that the report included "the best data there is about undocumented on Long Island." 
"I think it's really important for Long Island to move on from such an overheated immigration discussion," Mr. Kallick said. "The last thing we want to do is to follow the path of places like Arizona and Alabama where they seem to be going out of their way to create an off-putting climate for immigrants and that's hurting them economically and socially."
The Fiscal Policy Institute's study was analyzed by Pearl Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the regions' largest business group. 
"The findings are sufficiently detailed to show the role that immigrants play in the economy,'' Ms. Kamer said, "and to guide policy makers in serving the immigrant community."

        
How a Sonnet Made a Statue the 'Mother of Exiles'
        
After Mysterious Delay, Mysterious Approval of Kurdish Advocate's Visa
        
'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In
        
A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
        
Bloomberg Advises Trump to Drop 'Birther' Issue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CENSUS (90%); FAMILY (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTIES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HATE CRIME (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%) Immigration; Levy, Steven A; Lucero, Marcelo; Immigration and Emigration; Fiscal Policy Institute; Long Island (NY)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%) Fiscal Policy Institute

PERSON: Levy, Steven A; Lucero, Marcelo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1255 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Overhaul Planned for City's Largest Pension Systems

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal to merge the boards of the city's five main public employee pension systems is aimed at lowering administrative costs and increasing annual returns. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and New York City Comptroller John C. Liu are set to announce on Thursday a sweeping overhaul of the city's five main public employee pension systems.
Union officials said that the mayor and comptroller would announce a proposal to merge the management of the five plans so that they would have one unified board, with about a dozen directors, overseeing the $120 billion in investment, instead of the current five boards with 58 directors. A news conference to announce the plan has been scheduled for noon.
As part of the overhaul, the unified pension plan would have its own professional investment staff, which is expected to help increase the annual returns for the pension plan. City officials hope this will mean that that the city will not have to inject as much money from its budget each year into the pension plans. 
Union officials said the reorganization would be more efficient and would lead to quicker decision making and lower administrative costs, which they say help lead to a better yield on the pension funds. Also, the overhaul is aimed to ensure that the board members have more financial expertise than some of the existing 58 members on the five boards.
The labor officials were quick to note that while the management of the funds would be merged, the funds for the police, firefighters, teachers, District Council 37 and other unions would not be commingled. 
The pension overhaul will require approval by the State Legislature, one city official said, adding that there was behind-the-scenes work to line up the support of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo as well as the leaders of the Senate and Assembly.
City officials have voiced frustration in recent years that the pension plans have not had better returns, forcing the city to contribute more money to them at a time that the city is grappling with a projected $2 billion deficit.
Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee, the umbrella group for the city's public employee unions, praised the idea. "Any time you're talking about larger returns for the city, it's less of a burden for the city," he said. "And when you're talking about larger returns for the members, it's better for the members. It's definitely something worth pursuing."
Mr. Nespoli, who is also the president of the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association, said he liked the idea because "it will help make sure that all the investments are safe and it will bring more professionalism to the system's performance."
Mr. Nespoli and other union officials acknowledged that there might be some tensions in deciding who should serve on the unified board, because some unions that have members on the five boards might no longer be represented on the single, smaller board.

        
City Eyes Overseas Investment Returns
        
Principle and Politics (Minus Details) in Trenton
        
Report Forecasts Steady Growth for City's Economy
        
Service Disruptions: Half or Whole Hog?
        
Teachers' Pension Checks Are Canceled

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (92%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); POLITICS (69%) Comptroller John C. Liu; pensions; Albany; Breaking News; City Hall; Labor

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1256 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: MF Global Fights to Stay Afloat After Two Credit Downgrades

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Moody's and Fitch cut their ratings on the commodities and derivatives firm, which is trying to sell part or all of itself. 

 BODY:
9:07 p.m. | Updated 
MF Global, the commodities and derivatives brokerage house, was in a fight for its life Thursday night after the firm drew down its main credit line and two major credit ratings agencies cut their ratings on the firm to junk.
MF Global is scrambling to sell some or all of itself. The firm has enough assets to survive for at least the next few days, said a person outside the firm who was briefed on its condition.
The pressure on MF Global is mounting even as a deal over Greece's debt has provided market relief to other American financial institutions. Investors have grown increasingly worried about MF Global's capital position given its exposure to $6.3 billion in debt from Italy, Spain, Belgium, Ireland and Portugal.
But during the market day on Thursday, Fitch Ratings cut its credit rating on the firm to junk status, and shares of MF Global tumbled nearly 16 percent, even as other financial stocks surged.
Late on Thursday, Moody's Investors Service cut its rating on MF Global for a second time this week, to Ba2 from Baa3. The downgrade to junk status, Moody's said, "reflects our view that MF Global's weak core profitability contributed to it taking on substantial risk in the form of its exposure to European sovereign debt in peripheral countries."
The other major credit ratings agency, Standard & Poor's, warned on Wednesday that it might cut its ratings, too. The ratings downgrades could limit the number of counterparties willing to trade with MF Global.
To bolster its cash position, MF Global has tapped a $1.3 billion credit line at the parent company level, people briefed on the matter said Thursday evening. The firm still has financing available, including at least some of a $300 million revolving credit line in its broker-dealer subsidiary as well as bank overdrafts and letters of credit. 
An MF Global spokeswoman, Tiffany Galvin, declined to comment.
People close to MF Global said that as of Thursday afternoon, only a small percentage of client funds - in the low single digits - had left the firm. Most of that appeared to be clients spreading their accounts across multiple brokerage houses.
These people added that the firm had adequate liquidity and that it was not contemplating filing for bankruptcy.
For days, analysts and investors have worried that time is running short for MF Global to solve its multiplying problems. The firm has hired Evercore Partners to help it assess strategic options, which include potentially selling its futures brokerage unit to a larger institution, according to people briefed on the deliberations.
But the firm is still considering other alternatives and has not settled on a definitive course of action, these people cautioned.
Within MF Global's offices in Midtown Manhattan, the mood among the rank and file has been tense but defiant. Many employees have been working through the night talking to clients concerned about the speculation about the firm.
The firm's chief executive, Jon S. Corzine, has held several firmwide conference calls to disseminate talking points on the company's financial strength, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
Many lower-level employees say they believe that talk about the firm's troubles is overblown, and some have even bet on a comeback by buying MF Global shares for their personal accounts, this person said.
Major exchanges including the IntercontinentalExchange and the CME Group said that MF Global remained a clearing member in good standing as of Thursday afternoon, according to representatives for the bourses.
But that was before Bloomberg News reported that MF Global had drawn down its credit line. 
Thursday's downgrade marks the latest blow to MF Global, which Mr. Corzine, the former Goldman Sachs chief and former New Jersey governor, has sought to transform itself from a derivatives and commodities brokerage into a full-blown investment bank. A centerpiece of that plan included taking on additional risk, and potential profit, by making more trades using the firm's own capital.
That plan has been dealt sharp setbacks over the past week, starting with a ratings downgrade by Moody's on Monday and MF Global's announcement of a $186 million quarterly loss the next day.

        
Europe's Debt Threatens MF Global, and Corzine
        
No Pressure, Right, Mr. Corzine?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (95%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FUTURES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%) Fitch Ratings; MF Global; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Futures and Options Trading; MF Global Ltd; MF Global Ltd|MF|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings; MF Global Ltd

TICKER: EVR (NYSE) (51%) MF Global Ltd; MF; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (76%); BELGIUM (71%); PORTUGAL (71%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1257 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With Wal-Mart

BYLINE: BARBARA TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: When you shop at a big-box retailer are you fraternizing with the enemy? Or are you just trying to save money and stay in business? 

 BODY:
I remember the first time my husband and I visited the Wal-Mart Supercenter in Bentonville, Ark. It was July, 2003, just a few weeks after we had moved to Northwest Arkansas from Seattle, and it was the first time I had ever shopped at a Wal-Mart. As we turned the car off of Walton Boulevard -- directly across from Wal-Mart's corporate headquarters -- it felt as if our Volkswagen Passat was being swallowed into the vast parking lot of pick-ups and S.U.V.'s the way the tiny rebel spaceship was sucked into Darth Vader's star destroyer.
I was determined to remain defiant in the face of evil. "I am going to shop here on a regular basis," I declared.
"We live in Arkansas," my husband, Chris, replied matter-of-factly, not needing to articulate the obvious, which was that we weren't going to have much of a choice. We did our shopping and returned to the car. I slumped into the passenger seat and stared out the window, feeling defeated. "Well," I muttered as we drove away, "I'll never buy clothes there."
That summer represented three major beginnings in my life: moving across the country, being pregnant with our first son, and starting our first business. All three life-changing events have had lasting effects on my spending habits. But looking back, nothing melted my resolve to stay out of Wal-Mart the way becoming a small-business owner did. 
Much like Paul Downs in a recent post, I have two little voices that perch on my shoulders. "You need to support local small-business owners with every dollar you spend," says the one that sounds like Kathy Bates. "You put yourself out to the world as a voice for small business, for crying out loud. You're the worst kind of hypocrite!"
"Being a small-business owner takes sacrifice," responds the voice that sounds like Alan Rickman. "You know what your P.&L. looks like. You know what your household expenses are. You need to save a buck wherever you can. And did I mention that we seem to be caught in a never-ending recession? Use your head. We're talking about survival here. Your family and your business come first. Get over it."
It seems I'm not the only one with a split personality when it comes to wanting to support local small businesses. A recent reportfound that lots of people say they support small businesses in theory but far fewer actually spend their discretionary dollars with them. As much as I wish I could shop solely at independent retailers, I do not have the time or the money to be the shopper I aspire to be. I do the best I can to support my local small-business community, but these days the lion's share of my weekly shopping does, in fact, take place at Wal-Mart.
Having decided to start a business and a family simultaneously, I'm sure I would be pinching pennies no matter where I were living. If I had stayed in Seattle, I suspect I would have ditched high-end retailers and started shopping at Safeway, Fred Meyer, Costco and Trader Joe's. When it comes to supporting small business, the antithesis is really any super center (Target, Kmart), warehouse club store (Costco, Sam's Club), or category killer (Best Buy, Barnes & Noble). Yet no other shopping destination carries the stigma of going to a Wal-Mart. Apparently, there are people who confess to shopping there but say they wear a hoodie and sunglasses when they do. I used to glance over my shoulder as I skulked through the entrance but have long since given up the charade -- especially in this town.
When you live in a company town, you learn a lot about that company. Having grown up in Seattle, I have an intimate knowledge of the histories and inner workings of Microsoft and Starbucks. These companies dominate local headlines, employ friends and family, sponsor new stadiums, influence decisions about local infrastructure and become a part of your life. They are the hometown heroes on many levels, but then you eventually realize that not everyone roots for the home team. It was right around college when I started meeting people who had less than fond feelings about MSFT and SBUX. But unless I'm wrong, few companies are as widely despised as WMT.
Since I've been forced to get cozy with Wal-Mart by living in its backyard -- and doing a short stint as a sales analyst for one of its 57,000 suppliers -- I've learned that Wal-Mart is not entirely bad. Sam Walton's rather noble impetus for creating the store was to serve the under served -- namely poor, rural markets. More recently, Wal-Mart seems to be doing its part to effect positive change with efforts targeting sustainable agriculture, building two "green" experimental super centers (McKinney, Tex., and Aurora, Colo.), and introducing programs aimed at helping women-owned businesses and alleviating the problem of urban "food deserts."
Yet one of the main complaints is that Wal-Mart is a "huge corporate monster that storms into small towns and destroys small businesses," as one blogger put it. While that claim may be overstated, next to everyday low prices, it is what Wal-Mart is famous for.
The irony of a small-business owner shopping at Wal-Mart still hits me every time I walk through the automatic doors and smile at the ubiquitous greeter who cheerfully sends me into the belly of the beast with my empty cart and shopping list. Sun-Tzu, the Chinese military strategist, is credited with advising us to keep our friends close and our enemies closer. If big-box retailers like Wal-Mart are indeed the enemy of small businesses, there is no denying that I am staying close to the enemy. You can find me deep in the bedding aisle.
When you shop at a big-box retailer are you fraternizing with the enemy? Or are you just trying to save money and stay in business yourself?

        
How Social Ventures Can Produce Profits
        
Should Green Companies Work With Giant Companies?
        
How Many Business Models Can One Company Have?
        
How We Decided to Go Global
        
Introducing Sustainable Profits: Turning Waste Into Profit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (86%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%) Wal-Mart; Shopping and Retail; Small Business; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Arkansas; Wal-Mart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE; Transaction

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1258 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Memories of Joseph Papp Abound at Public Theater Celebration

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline and more reminisce about Joseph Papp, the brilliant, domineering and fiercely loyal founder of the Public Theater. 

 BODY:
Fresh out of the Yale School of Drama in 1975, Meryl Streep was 90 minutes late for her first audition with Joseph Papp, the artistic director of the Public Theater and the New York Shakespeare Festival in Central Park. Her train from New Haven had been delayed, and there were, of course, no cellphones or e-mail then. She arrived to find Papp sitting in one of his signature white suits, his impatience conveyed with a grimace and twitchy crossed-leg kicks. Yet a few minutes later, the potential of a great actress had transformed his mood, and soon he was offering a small role to Ms. Streep in what would be her Broadway debut: "Trelawny of the 'Wells'" at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, in an era when acting work in New York was hard to find.
"It was weirdly analogous to this time, because there was a recession, the city was really struggling, but the Public Theater was alive and kicking because of one man's dream," Ms. Streep said on Wednesday night as a member of a panel discussing Papp at a celebration of the Public's 67-year history. "That audition was a month of worry, and three seconds of his certainty about what he saw," Ms. Streep continued. "He never stopped giving me jobs, and he never stopped giving me chances. I owe him so much, I really do. I so miss him."
Brilliant, domineering, intimidating, and fiercely loyal to his favorites, Papp founded the Public in 1954 and led the downtown institution - as well as its free-for-all Shakespeare in the Park, still a New York summertime tradition - until his death from prostate cancer in 1991. Over those decades he was an unparalleled force in American theater - as the producer of major works like "Hair," "A Chorus Line," "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf" and "The Normal Heart," but also as an outspoken supporter for the government financing for the arts (defending the National Endowment for the Arts during the 1980s), theater preservation (opposing the demolition of the Morosco Theater on Broadway in 1982), and for the needs of low-income artists and residents in New York City.

"When I was growing up, he was the unofficial mayor of New York City," said Tracie Holder, another member of the panel and one of the producers of "Joe Papp in Five Acts,"a new documentary of his life that was shown at Wednesday night's event. The screening and panel were held at the Ford Foundation, which, the Public announced on Thursday, has donated a $2 million grant to support the theater company's $40 million renovation of its longtime home on Lafayette Street. The construction work is expected to be finished next summer, with a grand reopening planned for fall 2012.
There were tears among audience members during the 85-minute film - especially toward the end, as Papp lay dying at the same time as his 29-year-old son Anthony, who had AIDS - as well as during the panel. Ms. Streep could not speak at first, as she composed herself, so another Public veteran, Kevin Kline, began the storytelling by recalling his own Public debut: as a spear-carrier in a two-part version of Shakespeare's "Henry VI," which ran in repertory in the summer of 1970 with "Richard III." That production remains a high point in Public Theater history, not least, Mr. Kline recalled, because Papp urged his actors to soldier on in spite of the theater running low on cash. Papp proposed a solution: An all-night marathon-cum-fund-raiser of the three plays, from 6:30 p.m to 6:30 a.m., with a break for dinner at 2 a.m. and a finale led by the cast of "Hair" singing "Let the Sunshine In."
"We all gathered before the evening began, and Joe said, this will be a long night, and he launched into 'we few, we happy few, we band of brothers' - the 'Henry V' speech," Mr. Kline recalled. "And I was this kid from the Midwest, with this powerful man. And he knew Shakespeare - he's not just this image of what a producer was."
Decades later, after many roles at the Public, Mr. Kline found himself on the floor with Papp in laughter as they prepared for a benefit performance during which they would play "Stout-hearted Men" on kazoos. "To be rolling on the floor with this guy who inspired awe and respect and fear," Mr. Kline said. "It was a great privilege and blessing of my life to have gotten to know" - and here he paused, as his voice cracked - "that other side, beyond the mask."
The Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Suzan-Lori Parks ("Topdog/Underdog") also joined in the panel, describing the Public as a theater where artists of all backgrounds felt welcome. And Oskar Eustis, the current artistic director of the Public, put a few questions to the panel members, including asking Ms. Streep if Papp had ever directed her. "He tried," she said. (He was one of the directors of "Henry V" in 1976, in which she played Katharine in her first production at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park.)
Mr. Eustis recalled that he had auditioned for Papp for that same production.
"It was the last audition I ever did, for Joe," Mr. Eustis said. "At the end of the audition I walked out and said, 'I'm never auditioning again,' and became a director."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); ENDOWMENTS (65%); PROSTATE DISEASE (65%); MEN'S HEALTH (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%); SUICIDE (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Kline, Kevin; Papp, Joseph; Streep, Meryl; Public Theater; featured; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (92%) Kline, Kevin; Papp, Joseph; Streep, Meryl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1259 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Hoenig Goes to Washington

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Thomas Hoenig, nominated to be vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, brings a clear understanding of the banking system and the perils of "too big to fail" banks, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
To fix a broken financial system and to oversee its proper functioning in the future you need experts. Finance is complex, and the people in charge need to know what they are doing. One common problem, manifest in the United States today, is that many leading experts still believe in some version of business as usual. 
At the height of the Great Depression, Marriner S. Eccles was summoned to Washington from Utah, where he was a regional banker. He helped remodel the Federal Reserve through the Banking Act of 1935 and then became its first independent chairman; the Fed board had previously been headed by the Treasury secretary. 
Mr. Eccles was not a fan of big Wall Street firms and their speculative stock market operations; rather, he understood and identified with smaller banks that lent to real businesses. Mr. Eccles was the right kind of expert for the moment. Who has the expertise to play this kind of role in our immediate future? 
Thomas Hoenig, the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, has long been a strong voice for financial sector reform along sensible lines. Within the official sector, he has spoken loudest and clearest on the most important defining issue: "Too big to fail" is simply too big. And last week he took a major step toward a more prominent role, when he was nominated by President Obama to be vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

The F.D.I.C. is not as powerful as the Fed, but in our current financial arrangements, it does play a critical role. The Dodd-Frank legislation has its weaknesses, but it gives the F.D.I.C. two important powers. 
First, with regard to big banks, the F.D.I.C. can help force the creation of credible "living wills" -- explaining how the bank can be wound down if necessary. If such wills are not plausible then, in principle, the F.D.I.C. could force simplification or divestiture of some activities. Second, the F.D.I.C. is now in charge of "resolution" for mega-banks, i.e., actually closing them down and apportioning losses in the event of failure.
One important concern is whether the F.D.I.C. has enough clarity of thought and -- most critically -- enough political support to take the pre-emptive actions needed to make our biggest banks smaller and safer. (For more specific suggestions - and some disagreement - on what exactly is required to strengthen financial stability, you can watch two speeches made on Oct. 21 at a George Washington University law school symposium: Sheila Bair, the former F.D.I.C. chairwoman, spoke first and I spoke immediately after; my remarks start around the 49-minute mark.)
The F.D.I.C. senior team is already strong, with a great deal of experience handling the problems of small and midsize banks. The current acting chairman, Martin J. Gruenberg, was vice chairman under Ms. Bair. These are not people who are easily intimidated by big banks. And Mr. Gruenberg is highly regarded on Capitol Hill, where he worked for the Senate Banking Committee for nearly two decades. (Disclosure: I'm on the F.D.I.C.'s Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, which meets in public; I'm not involved in any personnel or policy decisions.) 
I have been a strong supporter of Mr. Hoenig in recent years, endorsing his views and arguing in the past that he should be named Treasury secretary. 
In the current mix of Washington-based policy makers, Mr. Hoenig would be a great addition. He spoke out early and often against "too big to fail" banks. In early 2009, his paper "Too Big Has Failed" became an instant classic. It is worth reading again because it contains a number of forward-looking statements that remain important. Perhaps the most relevant for his F.D.I.C. role:
Some are now claiming that public authorities do not have the expertise and capacity to take over and run a "too big to fail" institution. They contend that such takeovers would destroy a firm's inherent value, give talented employees a reason to leave, cause further financial panic and require many years for the restructuring process. We should ask, though, why would anyone assume we are better off leaving an institution under the control of failing managers, dealing with the large volume of "toxic" assets they created and coping with a raft of politically imposed controls that would be placed on their operations?
This sounds very much like the basis for a sensible strategy of thinking about Bank of America, which is in serious trouble -- and where the F.D.I.C. should consider a more proactive intervention. 
The European debt situation is also threatening to spiral out of control, with potentially serious consequences for our financial sector. If you have not yet reviewed the details of Bill Marsh's graphic from The New York Times on Oct. 23, I strongly recommend it -- but you'll need a big computer screen or the ability to print out on a very large piece of paper. (The picture is literally big, 18 by 21 inches; there is also a nice interactive version that lets you look at various scenarios.)
We do not know how these or other shocks will hit our financial system. Nor do we know exactly who will fall into what kind of trouble. 
We need experts at the helm with sensible judgment and the right priorities - and with a good understanding of what kind of financial system we really need. We also need policy makers who have strong support from across the political spectrum, including on Capitol Hill.
Mr. Hoenig is exactly the right person for the moment.

        
The Big Banks Fight On
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent
        
Huntsman's Warning on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
3 Questions on Financial Stability
        
More Transparent Bank Stress Tests Are Needed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); LIVING WILLS (50%) banking; banking regulation; Daily Economist; politics; Senate Banking Committee; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Hoenig, Thomas M; Banking and Financial Institutions; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (54%); BARACK OBAMA (51%) Hoenig, Thomas M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1260 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Unbanked America

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The percent of households that don't use banking services, like checking or savings accounts, ranges from 16.4 percent in Mississippi to 1.7 percent in Utah. 

 BODY:
Lately you've probably heard a lot about bankers. What what about the bankees?
According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, across the country 7.7 percent of households don't have a checking or savings account (that is, they are "unbanked"). Another 17.9 percent have checking or savings accounts, but they still rely on alternative financial services like check cashing, payday loans and pawnshops, which typically have very unfavorable terms for borrowers.
The Pew Charitable Trusts has put together state-by-state information on what share of people use the traditional banking system, shown in the interactive map below.
Click on any state to see what share of its households don't access the traditional banking system. You'll also see how much it costs to maintain a checking account and make an overdraft transfer in that state.
As you might expect, higher fees discourage families from using banks. As the Pew study cites, the 2009 F.D.I.C. National Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked Households found that 31 percent of households that dropped a bank account said they did so because of service charges, minimum balance requirements or overdraft fees.
Mississippians are most cut off from the traditional banking system: 16.4 percent of households in the state do not have a checking or savings account. On the other hand, almost every household in Utah uses the traditional banking system; just 1.7 percent of households there are unbanked.

        
New York Metro Area Has Highest Inequality in Country
        
The North Dakota Miracle
        
United States of Unemployment
        
Nevada Maintains Highest Unemployment Rate
        
Nevada Jobless Rate Still at Record High

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); FAMILY (78%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%) banks; map; Pew Charitable Trusts; states; unbanked; Banking and Financial Institutions; Utah

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Pew Charitable Trusts

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Utah

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1261 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: 'Occupy Albany' vs. 'Governor 1 Percent'

BYLINE: DANNY HAKIM and THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Some protesters in Albany have set their sights on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. 

 BODY:
ALBANY - Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was not in Albany Thursday, but Occupy Albany demonstrators came to the Capitol anyway, in a protest that seemed more about the governor than anything else. 
The Cuomo administration has taken a relatively hard line against the demonstrators, requiring them to vacate a state-controlled portion of a park across the street from the Capitol. The governor's office has said the state is simply enforcing a curfew, but The Times Union of Albany reported Thursdaythat the curfew was created by the governor's administration just last week. 
The governor's posture toward Occupy Albany, along with his opposition to a so-called millionaire's tax in New York State, has highlighted a potential vulnerability on the left for Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who has governed mostly from the center. Occupy Albany is a small offshoot of the Occupy Wall Street movement, which is based in Lower Manhattan and whose members have been critical of economic inequality and corporate influence. 
"I wouldn't vote for him again," one Occupy Albany protester, Jackie Hayes, said on Thursday, shortly after delivering a speech in the Capitol in which she referred to Mr. Cuomo as "Governor 1 Percent." That nickname has become popular among the protesters, who argue that Mr. Cuomo, in opposing higher state income tax rates for the wealthy, is championing the interests of the top 1 percent of earners.
Ms. Hayes, a 29-year-old graduate student at the State University of New York in Albany, said she believed the governor should drop his opposition to extending the tax surcharge for the wealthy - a common refrain among the protesters. 
"I think it's an economic policy that's absolutely indefensible," she said. 
Mr. Cuomo has said that he supports a federal millionaire's tax, but opposes it at the state level because, he believes, it places the state at a competitive disadvantage with its neighbors and could prompt high earners to relocate.
In a radio appearance on Monday, the governor expressed support for free speech, but he said the state would not make any special exceptions to accommodate the Occupy Albany protesters.
"We believe in the right to demonstrate," Mr. Cuomo said. "We also believe in the rule of law, and we enforce the law, and that's how the state handles it."
The Cuomo administration has pushed Albany officials to strictly enforce park rules, including a curfew that would have required protesters to leave the park, at least at night. But local officials, including Mayor Gerald D. Jennings of Albany, who is a close ally of Mr. Cuomo, as well as Albany law enforcement leaders, have declined to interfere with the protests. 
"They're wonderful people," the Albany County district attorney, P. David Soares, a Democrat, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Soares said that law enforcement officials have found representatives of Occupy Albany to be "very reasonable," noting that the protesters decided of their own volition to suspend their drum-playing late at night out of respect for people who live in the area.
"There's children, there's grandmothers and grandparents and families that are there protesting,'' he said. "There are people singing songs and eating cider donuts. They're doing it peacefully - they're letting their frustration and opinions be heard and exercising what they're entitled to under our Constitution."
Occupy Albany protesters, seeking to avoid a confrontation with the state police, have moved to a city-controlled portion of the park near the Capitol. By Tuesday, demonstrators had set up 44 tents. Nearly 100 protesters showed up at the Capitol on Thursday. 
"I would think this is the type of thing we should be encouraging, not discouraging," said Assemblyman John J. McEneny, an Albany Democrat who visited the protesters on Tuesday. Mr. McEneny said he was surprised by the governor's response, saying, "It would be out of character from what I would expect, particularly for a Democratic governor."
Joanne Kathleen Farrell, 47, a freelance writer and Democratic advocate, has been collecting a list of policy changes that Occupy Albany protesters are seeking. The handwritten list she brandished included: increased taxes on the rich; no more layoffs of state workers; legalization of marijuana; a ban on hydraulic fracturing; the creation of a peace department within the New York State government; and fines for the news media for disseminating misleading statistics. 
She said she felt let down by Mr. Cuomo: "The governor is going to treat us like this, like I'm invading my own neighborhood? I don't think so."
But Mr. Cuomo generally enjoys extraordinarily high approval ratings as measured in public opinion polls, and even some of the protesters are still supportive. 
George Stangle, a 53-year-old self-described "jack of all trades" who is looking for work, said that while he was disappointed in the governor, whom he supported in the last election, he would probably stick with him. "He's a Democrat and I'm a Democrat."

        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 41
        
No 'Highway Therapy' for Pepper-Spray Commander
        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 40
        
Credit, Blame and a Heaping Cup of Coincidence
        
For Quiet Moments Between Protests, a Growing Library

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CURFEW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLITICS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); RIOTS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Albany; Andrew M. Cuomo; demonstrations; Occupy Wall Street; protests; taxes; Cuomo, Andrew M; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Politics and Government; Democratic Party; New York State

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1262 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Europe's Debt Threatens MF Global | Worries about Europe have buffeted other American financial firms in recent months, but MF Global is showing signs of becoming the first to face a full-blown panic.
Shares of the firm, a commodities and derivatives brokerage house, have plummeted 54 percent this week amid concerns about the firm's exposure to European sovereign debt. On Wednesday, the price of its five-year bonds slumped to 66.5 cents on the dollar, and the upfront premium of insuring $10 million of its debt annually climbed to $4.7 million, from about $3.9 million on Tuesday.
Investors began running to the exits on Monday after Moody's Investors Service cut its ratings on the company to one notch above junk status and Standard & Poor's threatened a downgrade on Wednesday. A ratings reduction below investment grade would hurt the company's futures clearing business, analysts said.
DealBook 
A Stunning Fall From Grace for a Star Executive | Criminal charges against Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, are a sharp reversal in his up-by-the-bootstraps tale.
DealBook  | DealBook: Insider Inquiry Goes Beyond Wall Street | DealBook: The Challenges of Prosecuting Rajat Gupta | Interactive: Insider Trading at Galleon | Post a Comment
The Challenges of Prosecuting Rajat Gupta | White Collar Watch examines obstacles the Justice Department may face in prosecuting Rajat K. Gupta, who is accused of giving inside information to Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of the Galleon Group who was convicted of insider trading.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
An Anarchist Behind Occupy Wall Street | The man who helped start the Occupy Wall Street protests, David Graeber, 50, is an anthropologist who has published a book on debt -- and who has been an anarchist since the age of 16, Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports. His economic ideas are outside the mainstream, but have a popular appeal.
"You gave the bank the right to make up money that is then lent to you," he told BusinessWeek. "We collectively create this stuff, and so we could do it differently."
BUSINESSWEEK
Straight Outta Zuccotti Park | A rapper known as M.C. Moneypenney has released "Tap Dat A$$et," a hip-hop critique of the state of American finance, with references to currency speculation, the foreclosure crisis and the Federal Reserve's asset purchase program. His associate, K-Rug, styled after New York Times columnist Paul Krugman, lays down a verse.
NEW YORK OBSERVER
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Sony to Buy Ericsson's Stake in Handset Venture for $1.5 Billion | Ericsson has agreed to sell Sony its stake in the struggling cellphone maker Sony Ericsson for $1.5 billion in a retreat from the mobile handset business.
DealBook 
Hertz Pulls Offer for Dollar Thrifty | Hertz withdrew its offer for Dollar Thrifty, citing market conditions, but said it was still interested in a deal if it could win regulatory clearance and settle on a fair price.
DealBook 
MF Global Said to Hire Advisers for Potential Sale | MF Global hired Evercore Partners and another adviser to explore a possible sale of the company, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Goldman Seen as 'Logical' Buyer | Goldman Sachs would be a "logical" buyer for MF Global, and could make a "windfall profit" on an acquisition, Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities, said in a research note on Wednesday, according to Bloomberg News.
Evercore Partners, which is said to be advising MF Global on a potential sale, could emerge as a buyer itself, Mr. Bove said.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A.I.G. to Sell Asian Insurer Shares | The American International Group plans to sell half its stake in the Asian life insurance company AIA Group, as A.I.G. attempts to simplify its operations, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
After 'Embarrassment,' MetLife May Speed Banking Exit | The life insurer MetLife may accelerate its plan to offload its banking business to escape oversight by the Federal Reserve, Bloomberg News reports. The Fed's recent decision to prevent MetLife from increasing its dividend and repurchasing shares is "clearly an embarrassment for the company," Dan Theriault, an analyst at Portales Partners, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Zagat's Price Tag: $151 Million | Google paid $151 million in cash for Zagat in September, and also paid $114 million for the German coupon site Daily Deals, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Reuters reports.
REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Banking Venture Eyes Northern Rock | NBNK, a British banking venture, has submitted a bid proposal for the bank Northern Rock, putting it in competition with Virgin Money, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Lazard's Quarterly Earnings Drop 15% | Lazard's core mergers advisory unit showed a strong gain in revenue, but its business of advising on stock offerings and private equity fund-raising slowed considerably.
DealBook 
Santander's Profit Fell 13% in First 9 Months of 2011 | Banco Santander reported a nine-month net profit of $7.4 billion that was below expectations, and the bank said it had focused on continuing to diversify away from its Spanish operations.
DealBook 
European Leaders Arrive at Plan | European leaders agreed on Thursday morning to a plan for banks to take 50 percent losses on their holdings of Greek debt, in a crucial move intended to help protect the euro, The New York Times reports.
The leaders also agreed to enlarge their bailout fund to a target of $1.4 trillion, and to require banks to raise capital.
NEW YORK TIMES
European Banks Required to Raise Capital | As European leaders attempt to stem the Continent's sovereign debt crisis, a top banking authority said banks would need to raise about $147 billion in capital, Bloomberg News reports. After running tests, the European Banking Authority said Spanish banks would need about $36.6 billion in new capital, and Italian banks would need about $20.7 billion.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Regulators Dash JPMorgan Buyback Hopes | JPMorgan Chase, the nation's biggest bank, chose not to formally ask regulators if it could buy back shares, after learning that its request might not be granted, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Lehman Settles More Claims | The Lehman Brothers estate has agreed to settle claims with a group of creditors, bringing the amount of settled claims to $160 billion, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Visa Earnings Rise on Card Use | Visa said its profit rose 14 percent in its fiscal fourth quarter, as buyers relied more on plastic, The Associated Press reports. American consumers charged $241 billion on Visa credit cards, up from $217 billion in the period a year earlier.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Disclosure Rule to Apply to Larger Firms | Small private equity firms are to escape regulation under a new disclosure rule approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The rule will only apply to firms with more than $2 billion in assets under management, FINalternatives writes.
FINALTERNATIVES
Bain and Blackstone Said to in the Lead for Drug Portfolio | Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group are seen as the leaders in an upcoming round of bidding for a portfolio of nonprescription drugs being sold by GlaxoSmithKline, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
AXA to Increase Investors in Fund | AXA Investment Managers has started a fund that invests in so-called black swan funds, and plans to offer it more widely by the end of the year, FINalternatives reports.
FINALTERNATIVES
HEDGE FUNDS 
SAC Capital Stopped Investing in Former Employees' Funds | As regulators scrutinize its trades, the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors has taken a step to burnish its reputation. It is no longer investing in hedge funds started by former employees, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Paulson Can't Catch a Break | After John A. Paulson worked to correct what he called a "mistake" in his hedge fund strategy, that adjustment seems now to be muting his returns amid a market rally, according to The Wall Street Journal, which reports that his Advantage fund is up less than 1 percent this month.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Icahn Requires Executives to Keep Mum | After Carl C. Icahn takes over a company, executives apparently are forbidden to talk behind his back. Officers at Icahn-controlled companies often have contracts barring them from disparaging the investor or revealing personal information about him, the Deal Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Groupon Plans to Replace Weakest on Sales Force | Groupon announced plans to replace the worst performing 10 percent of its sales force, as pressure mounts on the daily deals site to prove its business model is sustainable, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
LivingSocial Is Expected to File for I.P.O. This Year | LivingSocial, which competes with Groupon, is watching its rival closely, and is expected to file for an initial offering later this year, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Solyndra's Ghost Haunts Clean Technology Meeting | Talk of the bankrupt solar company Solyndra pervaded a California meeting of political leaders, who discussed clean technology, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Electric Vehicle Company Raises $28 Million | Brammo, an electric vehicle technology company, secured $28 million in a round of funding.
TECHCRUNCH
Photograph Start-Up Raises $3 Million | Sincerely, a start-up that allows users to make physical copies of cellphone pictures, raised $3 million in a round of funding, GigaOm reports.
GIGAOM
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Madoffs Tried to Commit Suicide, Wife Says | On Christmas Eve 2008, two weeks after Bernard L. Madoff confessed to running history's largest Ponzi scheme, he and his wife, Ruth, attempted suicide in their Manhattan penthouse. The situation was "just horrific," Mrs. Madoff said in an interview with Diana B. Henriques of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bank of New York Sued | The top securities regulator for Massachusetts has sued Bank of New York Mellon, seeking more than $30 million and accusing the bank of making "bundles of cash" by overcharging the state's pension fund on currency trades, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Large Hedge Funds to Submit to New Rule | Large hedge funds will be required for the first time to disclose detailed information about their bets, after the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a new rule. But the industry won several major concessions, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Regulator Said to Consider Mortgage Principal Reductions | The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is considering a plan to reduce the principle of struggling homeowners' mortgages, Reuters reports. The federal agency has previously refused to allow reductions of mortgage principal, arguing that write-downs would hurt the value of Fannie and Freddie's assets.
REUTERS
Freddie Mac Chief to Step Down | Charles E. Haldeman, the chief executive of Freddie Mac, said he would step down next year, as the mortgage finance giant faces scrutiny from the government, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); MERGERS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); FORECLOSURE (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (61%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); SONY CORP (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); SON (LSE) (82%); SNE (NYSE) (82%); 6758 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (82%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (54%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1263 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Can Romance Be Reduced to Pronouns?

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: Can your romantic life be reduced to the pronouns you say (or tweet or post or text)? Sort of. 

 BODY:
Behavioral scientists have long known that humans, whether in the schoolyard or in a dimly lighted bar, have a tendency to subconsciously mimic the sounds, style and movement of others. Recent research, however, shows that this mimicry also extends to how we speak and write. Even the least important words we choose can say a lot about us.
In one unusual experiment, 187 men and women gathered on the Northwestern University campus to take part in several four-minute speed dates. The couples talked about their respective majors and where they grew up, but none of that interested the University of Texas at Austin psychologist James W. Pennebaker. Instead, his focus was on the barely noticed personal pronouns (I, you, me), articles (the, a), prepositions (for, of, on), conjunctions (but, and) and other small words. These commonly used so-called function words, about 180 in all, Pennebaker says, are processed rapidly and subconsciously. And our use of them can reveal, among other things, whether a romance will work out or how well two people work together.
In the speed-dating study, Pennebaker and his colleague Molly Ireland found that couples who used similar levels of personal pronouns, prepositions and even articles were three times as likely to want to date each other compared with those whose language styles didn't match.() The metric, called language style matching (L.S.M.), was also better at predicting who didn't make a love connection than the individuals themselves, several of whom showed interest in a partner who did not reciprocate.() "It does better than humans themselves who are in the interaction," said Pennebaker, author of the new book "The Secret Life of Pronouns." "Some of the most revealing words we use are the shortest and most forgettable."
The metric has other applications. An analysis of instant-message exchanges between dating couples used L.S.M. to correctly predict who would be together after three months and who wouldn't.() More recently, researchers also found that groups with the highest levels of language mimicry performed the best on various tasks. Pennebaker's team even analyzed the letters and writing of famous couples, including the poets Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes. In the final, tumultuous years of their marriage, their already-different writing styles became even less synchronized.
Synchrony, however, does not always mean that two people like each other. Analyses of arguments, like the volatile exchange several years ago between the talk-show hosts Rosie O'Donnell and Elisabeth Hasselbeck, showed that the women used astonishingly similar speech patterns when they were arguing.() To let people see for themselves, Pennebaker offers an online diagnostic in which individuals can copy and paste their own I.M. conversations. I did this with an argument I was having with a friend, and we had 88 percent L.S.M. - daytime talk show territory.() But given the volume of e-mail, texts and Facebook posts we write, synchrony opens a new frontier into our most personal thoughts. Even the 140 character variety.
"The Fine Print"
 Part of a conversation between a high-matching pair (L.S.M. = 77 percent). They wanted to see each other afterward.
WOMAN: Let's get the basics over with. What are you studying?
MAN: Uh, I'm studying econ and poli-sci. How about you?
WOMAN: I'm journalism and English literature.
MAN: O.K., cool.
WOMAN: Yeah.
MAN: All right, um, where are you from?
WOMAN: I'm from Iowa, a town of 700.
MAN: I'm from New Jersey. Uh -
WOMAN: Probably not 700.
MAN: All right, well, I mean, actually, believe it or not, where I'm from in New Jersey has a lot in common with, like, Iowa and stuff.
 Neither of these students was interested in seeing the other again. (They scored 54 percent.)
WOMAN: Where are you from?
MAN: Connecticut. . . . How about you?
WOMAN: Um, I'm from Austin, Tex.
MAN: Texas? Nice, O.K.
WOMAN: When you say football, I understand football.
MAN: Oh, O.K.
WOMAN: That's kind of like one of those things.
MAN: That's - you a U.T. fan or a -
WOMAN: Um, "fan" would be the wrong word.
MAN: An understatement? Or an o -
WOMAN: No, the wrong word.
MAN: Ah, O.K.
 Half of low-L.S.M. couples broke up within three months.
 O'Donnell vs. Hasselbeck
Hasselbeck: I asked you a question.
O'Donnell: And you wouldn't even answer it.
Hasselbeck: You wouldn't even answer your own question.
O'Donnell: Oh, Elisabeth. I don't want. . . . You know what? You really don't understand what I'm saying?
Hasselbeck: I understand what you're saying.
 Try it yourself: secretlifeofpronouns.com/exercise/synch

        
What Are Your Relationship Deal Breakers?
        
Online Dating With a Difference
        
Inside the Mind of the Boy Dating Your Daughter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (79%); WRITERS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); POETRY (77%); WOMEN (76%); DATING SERVICES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); INSTANT MESSAGING (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (62%) communiation; dating; magazine; talking; Dating and Courtship; Language and Languages; Text Messaging; Women and Girls; Love Well; The Well Column

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012



1264 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: The Flat Tax Fantasy

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: It's Reaganism for the rich, Mondale-ism for the middle class. 

 BODY:
I agree with most everything in John Podhoretz's dyspeptic assessmentof the Republican field, but I balked at this part:
Perry's refusal to pick and choose with his non-flat, optional "flat tax" constitutes an act of egregious cynicism. He wants the credit for proposing something bold while denying that any such boldness will have palpable consequences as well as benefits.
Yet a truly flat tax will necessarily raise taxes on middle-income earners and lower them on those making more money. Rather than acknowledge this and do the hard work of explaining why and how a flat tax will work to create the economic growth that will get us out of this morass, Perry simply wishes the hard work away.
"Do the hard work"? How about "embark on the Sisyphean task"? Or "cast off anchors and set sail for the waterfall"? In reality, the fact that Perry's non-flat "flat" tax plan is egregiously cynical is the only remotely reasonable thing about it - because in the present socioeconomic landscape, the "hard work" of selling an flat tax would amount to a swift form of political suicide. A Republican politician could have all the eloquence, charm and charisma in the world, and he still wouldn't be able to sell the American public - or even, I suspect, the Republican electorate, Herman Cain's current poll numbers notwithstanding - on the notion that their own taxes should go to pay for a tax cut for the top 10 or 5 or 1 percent of earners. (It's fun to imagine the attack ads: "Rick Perry: He's Ronald Reagan for the rich, and Walter Mondale for the rest of you.) The idea is both politically and substantively crazy, unmoored from the realities of both the current economic crisis and the decade of wage stagnation for the non-rich that preceded it. And the fact that this, of all things, has become the hot economic policy idea of the Republican primary season says something more devastating about the state of the G.O.P. than any of the other foolishness that Podhoretz cites in his column.

        
The Rick Perry Experiment
        
See You in Six Months?
        
Grand Bargains, Pro and Con
        
Romney Versus the Field
        
Romney the Inexorable

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%) 2012; Domestic Policy; inequality; Republicans; Rick Perry; taxes; the economy

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (78%); HERMAN CAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1265 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Disney Channel to Be Introduced in Russia

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: The company has made a deal to buy 49 percent of a Russian television channel to introduce its brand to a country it views as an important untapped market. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - The Walt Disney Company on Thursday said it had completed a deal to introduce a nationally broadcast version of the Disney Channel in Russia, one of the world's last big untapped entertainment markets.
Disney, which has aggressively tried to crack Russia for years with only modest success, said it would acquire 49 percent of Seven TV, a broadcast channel that reaches about 40 million households, or more than 75 percent of Russia's measured television audience. Seven TV will remain majority owned by UTH Russia, a fast-growing media company.
It was a small deal in financial terms - about $300 million - but a big step forward for Disney's ambitions in the country. "We had a toehold, but this gives us an important foothold,"Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said by telephone from Moscow, where he met with Prime MinisterVladimir V. Putin to announce the deal. "We can now grow more robustly."
The Disney Channel has long been crucial to the company's foreign expansion strategy. When pursuing new markets, Disney typically focuses first on introducing the channel to deliver its brand directly to people's homes. Then it uses that base to sell theme park vacations and merchandise.
But Russia, like China, has proved difficult to enter because of bureaucratic hurdles and restrictions on foreign media. Disney thought it had secured distribution for a broadcast Disney Channel in 2008, when it announced a tentative partnership with Media-One Holdings Limited, a Russian media company. But the government blocked that deal.
Mr. Putin's public appearance with Mr. Iger on Thursday signals that Disney's Seven TV acquisition will go through. It's unclear why the government decided to approve a deal now. But with oil revenue projected to decline over the next decade, the country in general is far more eager to attract foreign investment. Russia is also interested in cultivating its own entertainment industry and could see Disney as an important source of expertise.
Igor Shchegolev, Russia's minister of communications and mass media, recently toured Disney's Pixar Animation headquarters in Northern California. Mr. Putin told Mr. Iger during their meeting in Moscow on Thursday that he hoped the partnership will be "a positive start up" in Russia's media industry, according the Interfax news agency.
Disney will be only the second foreign channel to broadcast nationwide in Russia, after MTV, according to TNS Russia, a ratings agency. The country has 20 such nationwide broadcast channels. Disney and UTH will introduce the rebranded channel sometime next year; it will include advertising and feature signature Disney children's shows like "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse" as well as programming created in Russia.
Western entertainment companies have recently stepped up efforts to penetrate Russia as their businesses in Europe and the United States have slowed. One indication of how much promise Russia holds can be seen in the growth of ticket sales there for Disney movies. "Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides" took in $64 million in Russia over the summer; in 2007 "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" took in $30 million.
Stymied on the broadcast front, Disney in 2010 introduced a cable channel in Russia. It has grown, but its prospects are limited, at least for the moment, by the nascent state of cable TV in Russia. (Disney said it has not decided how the Seven TV deal would affect this small cable channel.)
Still, cable television is growing in popularity. In 2007, 34 percent of Russians living in cities with a population of more than 100,000 people, the standard television metric there, subscribed to cable packages that included at least one such "thematic" channel, like Disney's offering, according to TNS Russia. By April of 2011, that number had risen to 60 percent.

        
Viewers Embrace ABC's 'Once Upon a Time'
        
Disney's Iger to Step Down in 2015
        
Iger on Steve Jobs: 'He Pushed You'
        
Jobs Frequently Consulted With Disney Chief
        
Disney to Add 'Avatar' to Theme Parks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); BRANDING (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); APPROVALS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ANIMATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Disney Channel; Russia; The Walt Disney Company; Television; Walt Disney Company; Walt Disney Company|DIS|NYSE

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney Channel; Walt Disney Company

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%) Walt Disney Company; DIS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1266 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Numbers

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Despite high unemployment and a sense of unmet expectations, black voters' support for President Obama remains remarkably strong, Helene Cooper writes. His campaign faces the challenge of how to energize this bloc for the 2012 election.

        
Democrats on the debt panel unveiled a proposal to cut as much as $3 trillion from the federal deficit -- a plan modeled after ideas developed earlier this year in talks between Mr. Obama and the Republican speaker of the House, John A. Boehner of Ohio. Robert Pear and Jennifer Steinhauer report that some Republicans are suggesting that the proposal sets the outer boundaries for negotiations, which could now begin in earnest.

        
Jobless Americans worry that their federal unemployment benefits will expire before they land a job, as Republicans in Congress resist passing another extension of unemployment insurance, Michael Cooper and Allison Kopicki write in an analysis of data from the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.

        
President Obama is back in Washington after a three-day trip that ended Wednesday in Denver, where he rolled out a plan to ease loan repayment requirements for college graduates, a group that helped him with the state in the 2008 election, Jackie Calmes reports.

        
Herman Cain's run for the presidency is based in part on the idea that he would bring executive-level expertise to the White House but questions about his leadership are rising from inside his political campaign, Susan Saulny reports.

        
Mitt Romney's wavering supportfor a tough anti-union ballot measure in Ohio has given his Democratic and Republican opponents new ammunition to support their claims that he routinely flip-flops on issues, Michael D. Shear reports.

        
Kevin Sack profiles President George W. Bush's former solicitor general, Paul D. Clement, who -- in addition to defending both Arizona's strict illegal immigration law and Congress's prohibition against interstate recognition of same-sex marriages --will likely argue against the 2010 health care overhaul law in front of the Supreme Court in the thick of the 2012 campaign.
Happening in Washington:

        
Economic data scheduled for release today include weekly jobless claims (8:30 a.m.), third-quarter gross domestic product (8:30) and pending home sales for September (10).
        
President Obama's schedule includes meetings with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner at 10:30, Prime Minister Petr Necas of the Czech Republic at 3:10 p.m., and city and municipal officials at 5, as well as dinner with the winners of a campaign contest at 6:45.
        
At 10 a.m., Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee about the Obama administration's strategies in Afghanistan and Iraq.
        
At 8:30, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano will participate in a cybersecurity forum with The Washington Post.
        
At 9:30, Kenneth Feinberg, the administrator of the compensation fund for victims of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill, delivers an update to the House Natural Resources Committee.
        
At the same time, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office, will testify at a aHouse Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee hearing about how the health care overhaul affects married couples and the deficit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); BALLOTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); LAWYERS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); IMMIGRATION (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); HERMAN CAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1267 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Herman Cain, Outlier

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Has there ever been a candidate with such strong polling but such weak fundamentals? Almost certainly not. 

 BODY:
Herman Cain, the Georgia businessman who has never held elected office, is tied for the lead in national polls of Republican voters -- or perhaps even slightly ahead of Mitt Romney, as he was in Tuesday night's New York Times/CBS News poll. Mr. Cain has also led in most recent polls of the Iowa caucuses and the South Carolina primary, has taken the lead in Ohio, and is close to Mr. Romney in Florida. If all you had to go on was the polls, you might think that Mr. Cain was the favorite to win the Republican nomination.
But then there are the nonpolling factors, some of which can be objectively measured and some of which cannot, but which would generally point toward Mr. Cain as being a second- or third-tier candidate. Mr. Cain has no endorsements from Republican members of Congress or Republican governors, and very few from officials in key early voting states. He has raised very little money. He has not hired well-known names for his campaign staff. He does not have traditional credentials. He has run for elected office just once before. He has begun to get a fair amount of media coverage, but the tenor of it has been fairly skeptical. His campaign commercials have been ... interesting.
Has there ever been a candidate with such strong polling but such weak fundamentals? Almost certainly not, at least not at this relatively advanced stage of the race.
I'm working on a project that tries to assign grades to each of the Republican candidates in a wide variety of categories. Most of these, like polling numbers and establishment support (as measured through endorsements) can be quantified in some way, but a few like debating skill are more subjective. 
The categories are weighted and combined together, producing a grade point average (GPA) that runs on a scale from 0 to 10. I've also run these numbers for past presidential primary fields dating back to 1992 based on the information that would have been available as of about Nov. 1 of the pre-election year.
This isn't necessarily the most rigorous study; data on some of the objective factors is hard to obtain for past years, and as much as you might try to rid yourself of hindsight bias for some of the more subjective categories, it's hard to trust yourself to do that when you know how the results turned out. 
But we can come to a few basic conclusions. For instance, a candidate's grade in polling-related categories (meaning, how well he's doing in polls both nationally and in key early states) is usually very strongly correlated with his grade in nonpolling categories. If we like, we can plot these on a graphic, with a candidate's polling grade on one axis and his grade in nonpolling categories on the other:
In other words, by this stage in the race, the polling and the fundamentals usually match up pretty well. Where there are exceptions, and there haven't been many, they are usually candidates who have strong fundamentals but weak polling, rather than (as in Mr. Cain's case) the other way around. Prominent examples of this would include Lamar Alexander in both 1996 and 2000, Phil Gramm in 1996, and perhaps someone like Chris Dodd in 2008.
Where would Mr. Cain fit into this chart? He'd be a huge outlier. If you knew only about Mr. Cain's polling and were trying to predict how strong his fundamentals were based on the precedents established by past candidates, your initial guess would be off by about 4.5 standard deviations, which amounts to a 1-in-300,000 outlier.
The fact that Mr. Cain has made it this far with such apparently weak fundamentals -- we're less than 10 weeks away from the Iowa caucuses -- is itself remarkable. It implies that there is either something fundamentally unusual about this year's Republican nomination process, or perhaps that some sort of "new normal" has been established and that the old rules of how you win a nomination no longer carry as much weight.
Most of you, however, are interested in what will happen to Mr. Cain from here on out -- can he actually win? What is an analyst to do when he encounters an outlier like this? 
Well, I don't know what he should do. This gets at something of the distinction that the economist Frank H. Knight once made between risk and uncertainty. To boil Mr. Knight's complicated thesis down into a sentence: risk, essentially, is measurable whereas uncertainty is not measurable. 
In Mr. Cain's case, I think we are dealing with an instance where there is considerable . Not only do I not know how I would go about estimating the likelihood that Mr. Cain will win the Republican nomination -- .
But I do know what an analyst should not do: he should not use terms like "never" and "no chance" when applied to Mr. Cain's chances of winning the nomination, as many analysts have. 
There is simply no precedent for a candidate like Mr. Cain, one with such strong polling but such weak fundamentals. We do have some basic sense that both categories are important. This evidence is probably persuasive enough to say that Mr. Cain's chances are much less than implied by his polling alone. They may, in fact, be fairly slim.
But (say, positing Mr. Cain's odds at 50-to-1 against) is much different than (infinity-to-1 against). We don't know enough about the way these factors interact, and we can't be sure enough that the way they've interacted in the past will continue on into the future, to say that Mr. Cain has no chance or effectively no chance. 
Frankly, I think it is quite arrogant to say that the man leading in the polls two months before Iowa has no chance, especially given that there is a long history in politics and other fields of experts being overconfident when they make predictions.
One reason that experts make overconfident predictions is because they often aren't held accountable when they are wrong. So in an effort to raise the stakes, I asked on my Twitter feed whether there were any experts willing to gamble their jobs on their predictions and would promise to stop writing about politics if Mr. Cain in fact wins the nomination. There is absolutely no reward to taking this bet -- however, if you believe that Mr. Cain's chances are truly zero, there is also absolutely no risk.
I did get a couple of takers. Much to his credit, Dan Conley, a former speechwriter for Gov. Douglas Wilder, said he would "quit political opinion writing forever" if Mr. Cain is nominated. And Gary Connelly, who writes about politics for The Springfield Post-Gazette, said he would quit covering politics for The Gazette if Mr. Cain wins.
I hope it doesn't come to that; we have enough unemployment in this country. But kudos to Mr. Conley and Mr. Connelly for venturing out on a limb. Anyone else out there willing to join them?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); GRADES & GRADING (62%) Cain, Herman; Presidential Election of 2012; Politics

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (90%) Cain, Herman

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



1268 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Spending More Doesn't Make Us Healthier

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL


HIGHLIGHT: Few understand how much we spend on health care, how much we need to spend to provide quality care, and the difference between the two. 

 BODY:
If you have heard it once, you have heard it hundreds of times. "The United States spends too much on health care." This is not a partisan point. You can hear this from Republicans as well as Democrats. "We know that our families, our economy and our nation itself will not succeed in the 21st century if we continue to be held down by the weight of rapidly rising health care costs," President Obama said in 2009. Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, agrees: "There is no serious dispute - on either side of the aisle." 
Unfortunately, few people really understand how much we spend on health care, how much we need to spend to provide quality care, and the difference between the two. Do we spend too much? Would cutting costs require rationing, or worse, death panels?
Let's begin with the costs. In 2010, the United States spent $2.6 trillion on health care, over $8,000 per American. This is such an enormous amount of money, it's difficult to grasp. 
Consider this: If we stacked single dollar bills on top of one another, $2.6 trillion would reach more than 170,000 miles - nearly three-quarters of the way to the moon. Or, compare our spending to that of other countries. France has the fifth largest economy in the world, with a gross domestic product of nearly $2.6 trillion. The United States spends on health care alone what the 65 million people of France spend on everything: education, defense, the environment, scientific research, vacations, food, housing, cars, clothes and health care. In other words, our health care spending is the fifth largest economy in the world. 
Or compare it to the second largest economy in the world, China. China's G.D.P. is $5.9 trillion (compared to America's $14.6 trillion). So the United States, with a population a quarter of the size of China's, spends just on health care slightly less than half of what China spends on everything. 
It is not just how much the United States spends on health care that is important, it is also how fast that amount is growing. For more than 30 years, health care costs have been growing 2 percent faster than the overall economy. That means every year we spend ever more on health care and therefore have to spend less on other things - or borrow money to pay for the extra health care. 
If we continue at this rate of growth, health care will be roughly one-third of the entire economy by 2035 - one of every three dollars will go to health care - and nearly half by 2080. 
This level of spending on health care is high, but is it worth it? Does it make us healthier?
The fact is that when it comes to health care, the United States is on another planet. The United States spends around 50 percent more per person than the next highest-spending countries, Switzerland and Norway. 
Some economists say this comparison is inaccurate because it does not correct for the facts that brand name drugs cost more, and doctors and nurses earn more, in the United States than they do in other countries. But even correcting for these differences in prices, the United States still spends 15 percent more than the next highest-spending country - and about a quarter more than countries with some of the best health care systems in the world, like Germany and France.
What this means is that there is so much money in the American health care system, we can control spending without having to ration care. No one seriously claims that France or Germany ration care. We could get down to their level of spending without forcing Americans to wait in lines for heart surgery or cataract removal.
The truth is, the United States is not getting 20 or 30 percent better health care or results than other countries. While there are peaks of greatness, especially at some of America's leading academic health centers and in integrated health care plans, the quality is uneven. And quality is a problem that affects all of us, rich and poor. Almost no matter how we measure it - whether by life expectancy or by survival for specific diseases like asthma, heart disease or some cancers; by the rate of medical errors; or simply by satisfaction with health services - the United States is actually doing worse than a number of countries, like France and Germany, that spend considerably less.
Even if you do not like comparing the United States with Europe, it is widely acknowledged that within the United States there is no clear link between higher spending on health care and longer life, less disability or better quality of life. A 2003 study published in Annals of Internal Medicine found that Medicare patients who lived in areas with higher health care spending did not get better results. In some cases, more spending even appears to equal poorer health. A 2004 study in Health Affairs found that there was actually worse care in states with higher Medicare spending.
The $2.6 trillion the United States is spending on health care is too much, and we can reduce it without rationing or sacrificing quality. 
An opinion essay on Oct. 30 about the cost of health care gave an incorrect percentage for the difference between health care spending per capita in the United States and that of each of the next two highest-spending countries. It is around 50 percent higher, not 35 percent higher.

        
Safety Nets for Freelancers
        
Thinking Outside the Bus
        
Saving by the Bundle
        
Less Than $26 Billion? Don't Bother.
        
Let's Talk About Death

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%) health care costs; Health insurance; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Reform and Reorganization; United States Economy; Ezekiel J. Emanuel

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011



1269 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: In Rally Over Euro Deal, Relief Mixed With Wariness

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Investors on Thursday largely cheered Europe's broad agreement to address its sovereign debt crisis, choosing to celebrate the fact that the Europeans finally agreed on something as opposed to the thornier question of how the plan is to be carried out.
The positive sentiment was reinforced by a report that the United States economy had grown at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the third quarter, the best performance in a year, adding to confidence that the United States will not experience a double-dip recession and prompting investors to put some of their long-dormant cash to work. 
But even amid the surge in stock markets worldwide, there were reservations in some quarters. The response in the European debt markets, the epicenter of the crisis, was muted, with little relief reflected in the interest rates that Spain, France and Italy must pay on their bonds. There has been concern, in particular, that Italy's huge accumulated debt might be the next focus of a bailout effort.
The plan agreed to by European leaders in Brussels early Thursday, the subject of weeks of contentious bargaining, has three main planks: an effort to recapitalize weak euro-zone banks, an increase in the size and scope of Europe's main rescue fund, and a proposal that banks take a 50 percent write-down on their Greek bonds.
It was the latest in a series of gatherings over the last year seeking to keep the sovereign debt problems of Greece and other vulnerable European nations from radiating through the financial system on the continent and beyond. Each meeting seemed to head off an immediate crisis, only to prove insufficient within months or weeks and prompt a new search for solutions.
And as always with the grandly presented European rescue plans, the devil with the latest one is in the details. Despite Thursday's exuberance, many investors expressed caution as to how the plan would hold up in the coming days and weeks.
For one thing, while the agreement by banks to write down 50 percent of Greek debt was welcomed, the deal's success is conditioned on investors' agreeing to take such a large loss. If a large number of investors refuse to accept such a loss, then the plan loses its voluntary status and would thus become a default -- creating more unease and panic in the markets.
Moreover, private investors are not obliged to take the write-down, and two big holders of Greek debt, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, are not granting debt relief. So it is not clear how much of Greece's overall sovereign debt of 340 billion euros ($480 billion) is going to be forgiven.
And it remains to be seen whether the debt relief for Greece will prompt other countries -- Spain, Italy, Portugal or Ireland -- to seek similar treatment.
Investors have also questioned whether the answer to the euro zone's debt crisis is taking on even more debt.
The main bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, relies on the sterling credit of Germany and France for its borrowing power. Euro zone leaders have promised to use the fund to both provide insurance for investors looking to buy risky Italian and Spanish bonds and to increase its borrowing capacity to as high as 1 trillion euros.
But it has been criticized as being too small and cumbersome and too reliant on France, which may well see its AAA rating taken down a notch because of its own debt and deficit problems. Such a move would hurt the vehicle's ability to issue bonds and attract capital from investors.
It also remains unclear if Europe, as it has promised to do, would be able to entice Asian and Middle East investors to put money into vehicles that would be linked to the bailout fund.
Europe's 106 billion euro answer for its bank problem may also raise more questions than it answers. In contrast to bank rescue plans in the United States and Britain, European governments are not injecting funds directly into the banks. Instead they are asking that banks significantly raise their capital level, to 9 percent by next year.
But for banks that have been weakened from their exposure to dubious European debt, raising money from private investors will be difficult -- especially as many of the likely sovereign fund candidates are the ones that suffered deep losses from investing in troubled American banks in 2007 and 2008.
All in all, despite the relief that an immediate crisis over Greece's debt had been averted, it seemed clear that the continent's tightly woven economic and financial systems remained fraught with risk.
The yield on Italy's 10-year bond, which recently hit a high of 6 percent on concern over the country's debt and commitment to fiscal reform, remained uncomfortably high at 5.8 percent. And the interest rates for Spanish and French bonds narrowed only slightly as well, reflecting a broader skepticism that this plan will provide a magic cure for Europe's debt problems.
Online Correction: October 27, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to United States economic growth in the third quarter. The 2.5 percent figure represents an annual rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO ZONE (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (96%); ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1270 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Experiencing Las Vegas, In Queens

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
The new Resorts World casino opening Friday, with its flashing multicolored ceiling lights, electronic baccarat tables presided over by robotic dealers and a fake twinkling night sky created from satellite images of the sky over 42nd Street, seeks to offer a Las Vegas interpretation of Times Square.
But the casino's main innovation is that it is reachable by subway from the real Times Square.
It is New York City's first casino -- or racino, because it is connected to the Aqueduct racetrack in South Ozone Park, Queens -- featuring 5,000 video gambling terminals and electronic table games, including craps and a popular Asian dice game known as sic bo; restaurants like Chinese dim sum and the Stage Deli; and 6,500 parking spots.
The casino, which was approved by the Legislature in 2001 only to be delayed by false starts and influence peddling, has already stirred deep divisions. Some critics say it comes perilously close to breaching constitutional limits on gambling, while others predict it will prompt a deluge of social ills, like divorce, gambling addiction or suicide. 
But supporters, including the owners of the casino and legislators in Albany, say that casino gambling has been available in the metropolitan area for years, and that this casino will help keep jobs and some of that revenue in New York.
''This is an opportunity for New Yorkers to have a Vegas-like experience without having to leave the city,'' said Michael Speller, the president of Resorts World Casino New York City, who started off as a blackjack dealer in his native London when he was 18.
Resorts World, owned by Genting New York, a subsidiary of the largest gambling company in England and Southeast Asia, says the casino will generate up to $1.5 million a day for the state. Also in the works are a climate-controlled bridge to the nearby Aqueduct North Conduit Avenue A train subway station and a shuttle to Kennedy International Airport.
The doors will open at 1 p.m. on Friday, and at 8 a.m. beginning Saturday. Closing time is 4 a.m. seven days a week.
Only the ground-floor portion of the complex, called the Times Square Casino, will be open on Friday. The more elegant Fifth Avenue Casino, which will open on the second floor in December, will feature the upmarket RW Prime Steakhouse, fine Chinese cuisine and an expansive outdoor terrace where diners can overlook the track where Secretariat was paraded shortly before his retirement and where Pope John Paul II said Mass in front of 75,000 people.
Another portion of the second floor is set aside for the Crockfords Casino, named after the upscale London casino also owned by Genting, designed for high-rollers and would-be Donald Trumps who will have access through a private entrance, after being delivered to Aqueduct in Champagne-stocked limousines.
The third floor, called Central Park, will have 130,000 square feet, making it the largest event space in Queens and a place for newlyweds craving a casino reception.
In recent weeks, 1,400 construction workers have been working 20 hours a day in two shifts to ensure that the casino will be ready by Friday. One week ago, the front sign said, ''RESORTS WORLD ASINO NEW Y K CITY,'' but the missing letters were in place by Monday.
New York authorized gambling at Aqueduct and eight other racetracks in 2001, after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center shook the state's economy. But while the other tracks were able to install video slot machines, which now generate more than $600 million a year in revenue sharing for the state, deals for Aqueduct, considered the most profitable franchise, fell through. Last year, the state inspector general found that State Senate leaders had manipulated the process to favor a politically connected group from Queens.
After another round of bids, Genting won by offering the state a $380 million upfront fee, which it has paid.
The casino imitates the glitz and frenzy of Caesars Palace or Bally's without running afoul of state laws and regulations that allow electronic gambling, but not human dealers, at the tracks. The baccarat tables feature real cards shuffled and dealt by robotlike mechanical arms.
''We have a situation in which elected state officials are breaching the Constitution,'' said the Rev. Jason McGuire, executive director of New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, a conservative Christian political group. ''A robotic arm dealing cards is just as insidious as a human being.''
Dr. Michael Bernstein, a psychiatrist at the New Horizon Counseling Center, which sits across from Aqueduct, said he feared the economic benefits would be offset by social problems, and noted his concern that neighborhood high school students could play truant from school in order to gamble (the minimum age to gamble is 18). ''Gambling caters to the lowest element of the human soul,'' he said. ''It is like a regressive tax, it is extremely addictive and poor people will be disproportionately affected.''
But Howard Shaffer, an associate professor of psychology at Harvard Medical School who specializes in addiction, said that since the 1970s, the percentage of pathological gamblers in the United States had remained flat at under 1 percent, despite the huge national explosion in gambling.
''We should be concerned and vigilant,'' Professor Shaffer said. ''However, there is very little scientific evidence suggesting that gambling by itself is the primary source of depression, suicide, bankruptcy or crime, though it can be a contributing factor.''
The casino has generated far less local opposition than, say, the efforts by Wal-Mart to open a store in the city. And now a fierce lobbying effort is under way by the racinos to let them expand into full-fledged casinos with more lucrative table games and human dealers. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has indicated that he might be receptive to legalizing non-Indian casinos -- New York State has five Indian casinos -- and a September poll by Quinnipiac University showed that 56 percent of state voters supported the idea of allowing Las Vegas-style casinos in New York.
In South Ozone Park, a sleepy middle-class neighborhood peppered by white bungalows, karate studios and garden centers, some residents say they hope the casino will restore the fortunes of the 117-year-old racetrack, which once hosted champions like Cigar and Secretariat but in recent years has declined.
This week, clutches of immigrant workers have descended on Aqueduct looking for jobs. Kathleen Lackhansingh, 66, a former office assistant, said Monday that she hoped the casino would provide her with extra income, as well as a more convenient place to play craps.
''It is good for the economy, and I am excited because I hate having to go to Atlantic City because of the commute,'' she said.
But Enzo Bellissimo, whose car repair shop has been across the street from the Aqueduct for 39 years, predicted the casino would prove a disaster. He said he planned to close his shop on Friday to avoid the crowds.
''It is going to create a big mess,'' Mr. Bellissimo said. ''Prostitutes. Crime. Gamblers are not going to create new business for us. I don't want this garbage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers prepare gambling machines at Resorts World Casino New York City by the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens
the casino is scheduled to open on Friday.(A22)
 The new casino has 5,000 video terminals and electronic table games, but, in accordance with the law, no human dealers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); RESORTS (90%); CARD GAMES (90%); CASINOS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (84%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1271 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Rain Stopped, and Weirdness Began

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
St. Louis
The horror show turned into a classic. For much too long, the rainout on Wednesday threw the Cardinals and the Rangers totally off their stride. The layoff, or something, produced a World Series game unworthy of spring training or even picnic softball games -- a parade of errors, collisions and stumbles, some comic, some frightening.
But from the ineptitude, a grand game emerged, which will be replayed for months and years. Both teams reached into the talent and the will that got them here to stage rallies before the Cardinals stunned the Texas Rangers, 10-9, on David Freese's leadoff homer in the 11th inning of Game 6 to send this Series into a decisive game Friday. 
Twice the Cardinals were a strike away from being eliminated, but they stayed alive, in the chase for the 11th championship in the history of the franchise. And they postponed by a day the fact that Albert Pujols is now a free agent. For that matter, Manager Tony La Russa's contract will run out when this Series ends. If it ends.
The Cardinals came into the ninth trailing, 7-5, but Freese, the hometown boy, hit a long drive to right that hit the fence, beyond the glove of Nelson Cruz, for a game-tying triple.
Josh Hamilton's two-run home run in the 10th inning seemed to win the Series for the first time in the 51 seasons of the Texas franchise. But the Cardinals came back for two runs in the 10th, with Lance Berkman whacking a game-tying single to center.
Earlier, much earlier, the fans got to see a game in drier and warmer weather, but the players skidded around as if playing on ice. Matt Holliday was an evening-long threat, rumbling into his shortstop, Rafael Furcal, for an error, performing the rare 360-degree pirouette while catching a fly and knocking down Elvis Andrus to break up a double play. Then he got himself picked off third base with the potential go-ahead run in the sixth, jamming his right pinky, and was replaced in left field in the seventh inning.
Weird things happened all night. An incipient Cardinal rally in the eighth got bigger because Andrus double-pumped and looked at second base and then made a late throw to first. One travel day and one rainout did all this to their bodies and their minds? Maybe it was the hard slide by Holliday.
This rationality from Major League Baseball to call off the game Wednesday would seem to be a beacon for all sports to acknowledge the limitations imposed by weather and the human body, despite mortal greed.
After a warm, dry evening indoors, what a shock it was to wake up Thursday and find the specter of a full N.B.A. season being foisted upon the world, like Frankenstein's monster on steroids.
Apparently, during overnight talks, negotiators became so giddy from some progress and a lack of sleep that they were talking about shoehorning a full 82-game schedule into the crammed sports calendar.
In a time of diminished economic prospects for most people -- dare I mention the figure 99 percent? -- the sport seems to be going to the outer limits to maintain its obscene payrolls and its assault on the calendar.
The N.F.L. is showing dangerous hubris in plopping the Super Bowl in the Arctic steppes of the Meadowlands on Feb. 2, 2014. The average temperature range for that day is 24 to 40. The official emblem of that venture includes a snowflake. Who knew the N.F.L. had a sense of humor?
Baseball, not known for its drollery, has had an ongoing weather problem. For 40 years, the symbol of the World Series has not been a snowflake but rather Commissioner Bowie Kuhn sitting outdoors in the chill October night, coatless.
Nobody had to go through that charade Wednesday, thanks to Bud Selig and Joe Torre, who got the salaried troops and the paying civilians out of the cold rain. But the sport still messes with Mother Nature, what with an earlier opening day this year and playing into the end of October -- trick or treat, indeed -- with its triple-tier postseason format. Now baseball is threatening to include a couple more teams in some new play-in format, no doubt sending the postseason toward Thanksgiving.
Kuhn's cold-blooded exhibition came as baseball was lurching toward a full schedule of night World Series games, to cleverly keep the sport out of the awareness of the next generation.
Now baseball wrings its hands about low television ratings for a World Series between Texas and St. Louis. The sport has hidden its championship for 40 years. No wonder young adults do not think the event is important. But at least baseball showed a glimmer of reason by calling off the game early.
With any luck, the wisdom of Selig and Torre could be catching. Baseball could consider trimming its season from 162 games to the old schedule of 154. European soccer's long calendar is grinding players down into nubs. Basketball and hockey could aim for sensible 70-game seasons. And football -- well, let's talk again after the Blizzard of '14.
As for baseball, all the early slipping and sliding on dry land was not seen by impressionable children back east. But the fans who saw this game, which got better and better as the hours passed, will be talking about it for a long time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cardinals mobbed David Freese after he ended Game 6 with an 11th-inning home run and evened the Series, 3-3 . (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOFTBALL (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1272 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2362 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/jazz.
Gregg August Quartet (Saturday) A versatile bassist and a thoughtful composer-bandleader, Gregg August leads a group with several strong partners: the soprano saxophonist Sam Newsome, the pianist Zaccai Curtis and the drummer E. J. Strickland. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 cover, or $10 for members. (Nate Chinen)
Mike Baggetta Quartet (Wednesday) ''Source Material'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the new album by the guitarist Mike Baggetta, suggests a busy variety of postbop, but not one without room to breathe. Mr. Baggetta celebrates the album's release with its full personnel: the tenor saxophonist Jason Rigby, the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer George Schuller. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) 
Kenny Barron Quartet (Friday through Sunday) Kenny Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and rhythmically sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. He's likely to explore at least a few different styles here, with Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass, Dayna Stephens on saxophone and Johnathan Blake on drums. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. The 9 p.m. show on Saturday is sold out. (Chinen)
Tim Berne, Tyshawn Sorey, Ryan Ferreira (Tuesday) Mr. Berne, an alto saxophonist and composer drawn to raw texture and knotty convolution, matches up with a pair of ambitious younger players, each bringing his own ideas: Mr. Sorey, on drums, and Mr. Ferreira, on guitar. At 10:30 p.m., Korzo, 667 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn , (718) 285-9425, myspace.com/konceptions; $10 suggested donation, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Andy Biskin's Ibid (Sunday) Andy Biskin, a clarinetist and composer with a sensibility both earnest and playful, slings stylistic citations shrewdly in this responsive quartet, with Kirk Knuffke on cornet, Brian Drye on trombone and Jeff Davis on drums. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (347) 422-0248, barbesbrooklyn.com; suggested donation $10. (Chinen)
- Chick Corea (Tuesday through Nov 27) Mr. Corea has adopted an array of instrumental formats over the years, from solo piano to orchestra, and next month, to commemorate his 70th birthday, he'll pilot a wide range of them over a nearly monthlong residency. The party begins on Tuesday and Wednesday with an ''unplugged'' version of Return to Forever, his recently reunited (and reconfigured) 1970s fusion powerhouse. On Thursday he plays in an acoustic trio with two celebrated peers, the bassist Gary Peacock and the drummer Brian Blade. There's plenty more; see the club Web site for a full rundown. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $65 cover at tables, $45 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Cryptogramphone at the Stone (Tuesday through Nov. 13) Cryptogramophone, a stylishly progressive Los Angeles label run by the violinist Jeff Gauthier, has taken over the Stone for the next couple of weeks, airing out its left-of-center aesthetic one show at a time. Among the early highlights are a duo performance by the multireedist Vinny Golia and the pianist Denman Maroney (Tuesday at 10 p.m.); Gregg Bendian's Trio Pianissimo, led by Mr. Bendian, a drummer and composer (Thursday at 8 p.m.); and Goat Structure, an ensemble with Mr. Gauthier, Mr. Bendian, the pianist David Witham and the bassist Steuart Liebig (Thursday at 10 p.m.). At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; $10 cover per set. (Chinen)
- Kurt Elling, With the Kluvers Big Band (Friday through Sunday) On ''The Gate,'' released on Concord this year, the mercurial jazz singer Mr. Elling seeks out a meditative mood without forsaking the imperatives of a searcher. Here he draws partly from the album with the estimable Kluvers Big Band from Denmark, making its New York debut, and a succession of guests, including the trombonist Robin Eubanks (Friday), the tenor and soprano saxophonist Ravi Coltrane (Saturday) and the vibraphonist Stefon Harris (Sunday). At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Wycliffe Gordon Quintet and Friends (Friday through Sunday) A charismatic trombonist specializing in gutbucket swing, Wycliffe Gordon presides over the program ''Hello Pops! The Music of Louis Armstrong.'' On Friday and Saturday his gifted young pianist, Aaron Diehl, will lead his own quartet during the club's After Hours sets, with a lower cover charge and a more relaxed air. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar; $15 for students at select sets. (Chinen)
- Jimmy Heath's 85th Birthday Celebration (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Heath, the bebop-honed saxophonist-composer/-bandleader-educator, has been enjoying a late-career eminence, but that doesn't mean he's resting on his laurels. You may have seen him recently with the Heath Brothers or leading his own big band, a version of which appears here. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
- Impulse! Records at 50 (Friday and Saturday) The legacy of Impulse! Records has been well-documented by now, but not with as much dynamism as seems likely here. The bassist Reggie Workman will lead his African-American Legacy Project in a recreation of ''Africa/Brass,'' the label's momentous first release by John Coltrane, and an album on which Mr. Workman played; also pitching in are the trumpeter Charles Tolliver and the pianist Stanley Cowell. But before that, the pianist Eric Reed spearheads an impressive lineup of peers -- along with the singer Andy Bey -- in a program of songs from across the Impulse! catalog. At 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $30 to $120. (Chinen)
Steve Kuhn Trio (Friday through Sunday) Steve Kuhn, a lyrical and articulate pianist, has history with both of his accomplished rhythm-section partners here, the bassist Buster Williams and the drummer Billy Drummond; they can be heard on an often-overlooked album called ''Temptation,'' recorded a decade ago for the Japanese label Venus. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30 Friday and Saturday, $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)
- Joe Lovano Us Five (Friday) Joe Lovano has become one of the standout jazz saxophonists of our time, an inveterate searcher with a finely drawn romantic side. His band Us Five -- a quintet that includes two drummers and the dynamic young bassist and singer Esperanza Spalding -- was last heard blurring the edges of tunes by Charlie Parker. Some of that may turn up here, but the band has also been working on its third Blue Note album, which raises the potential for new material. At 10 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $39 and $50. (Chinen)
Rudresh Mahanthappa: Samdhi (Tuesday and Wednesday) At heart Mr. Mahanthappa, an alto saxophonist of slashing clarity, has long been a proponent of fusion, at least in the cross-cultural sense of the word. His new album, ''Samdhi'' (ACT), evokes another usage: it's a driving electro-acoustic album with the guitarist David Gilmore, the bassist Rich Brown, the drummer Damion Reid and the mridangam player Anand Ananthakrishnan. (All but Mr. Ananthakrishnan resurface here.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20 cover. (Chinen)
Medeski Martin & Wood and Antibalas (Saturday) Medeski Martin & Wood -- the shrewd and unsinkable groove band, now celebrating its 20th year -- has long been celebrated for its Halloween shows, and this should be no exception. The band is teaming up with Antibalas, the high-octane Brooklyn Afrobeat group that powered ''Fela!'' on Broadway; each headliner will play one set, and then they'll combine for a roiling finale. At 8 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, (800) 745-3000, terminal5nyc.com; $27.50 in advance, $35 on the day of the show. (Chinen)
Matt Mitchell Quartet (Friday) Mr. Mitchell, a dexterous and intrepid pianist, has been heard lately in groups led by the redoubtable alto saxophonist Tim Berne. Here he employs another arresting saxophonist, Travis Laplante (on tenor), along with the trumpeter Herb Robertson and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey. At 10 p.m., Douglass Street Music Collective, 295 Douglass Street, near Third Avenue, Gowanus, Brooklyn, 295douglass.org; $10 suggested donation. (Chinen)
Django Reinhardt NY Festival (Tuesday through Nov. 6) Dorado Schmitt, a veteran guitarist with the roguish charisma and pencil-thin mustache required of any French Gypsy paragon, is the inexorable star of this Django Reinhardt NY Festival, as he has been in some years past. He'll be joined by his countrymen and fellow specialists Ludovic Beier, on accordion; Pierre Blanchard, on violin; Xavier Nikci, on bass; and Francko Mehrstein, on rhythm guitar. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 or $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
- Wallace Roney Residency (Wednesday) A postbop trumpeter fond of harmonic tension and rhythmic aggression, Wallace Roney has signed on for three consecutive Wednesday-night shows with his band at Dominion NY, a multi-use complex near Astor Place. This is the second of the series, and it features a vital opening act: the Orrin Evans Quartet, led by Mr. Evans, on piano, and featuring the saxophonist Ralph Bowen, the bassist Luques Curtis and the drummer Ralph Peterson. At 8 p.m., Dominion NY, 428 Lafayette Street, East Village, (888) 882-1951, dominionny.com; $15 in advance, $20 on day of show, or $40 for a three-show pass. (Chinen)
Christian Scott Quintet (Friday and Saturday) A New Orleans-born trumpeter of spectacular ability and commensurate self-assurance, Christian Scott has so far devoted his young solo career to a jazz translation of brooding but anthemic rock. Apparently he's trying something different here, with the premiere of five compositions inspired by Ornette Coleman's theory of Harmolodics. The cohesive strength of his working band -- with Matthew Stevens on guitar, Lawrence Fields on piano, Kristopher Keith Funn on bass and Jamire Williams on drums -- can only help his cause. At 7:30 p.m., Harlem Stage Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 281-9240, harlemstage.org; $25. (Chinen)
- Omar Sosa's Afreecanos / Jerry Gonzalez and the Fort Apache Band (Saturday) Mr. Sosa, a searchingly percussive pianist from Cuba, has recently been working on ''Afri-Lectric,'' an album inspired by the mood and music of Miles Davis's ''Kind Of Blue.'' He revisits that premise with a group that features the Cuban saxophonist Leandro Saint-Hill. As for Mr. Gonzalez, the Bronx-born Latin-jazz hero, he'll lead his long-running Fort Apache Band, playing trumpet and hand percussion and possibly drawing from a new album of his own, ''Jerry Gonzalez y el Comando de la Clave'' (Sunnyside). Part of the Eurocentro! Latin music festival. At 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $36 to $39. (Chinen)
3 Cohens Sextet (Tuesday through Nov. 6) ''Family'' (Anzic) is the swinging and self-explanatory new release by the 3 Cohens, a sibling unit featuring the trumpeter Avishai Cohen and the saxophonists Anat and Yuval Cohen. The album also relies on the grace and erudition of the pianist Aaron Goldberg, who rejoins the group here; on bass and drums respectively are Omer Avital and Johnathan Blake. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one drink minimum. (Chinen)
Steve Turre's TNT Quintet (Friday and Saturday) A decade ago the trombonist Steve Turre released ''TNT'' (Telarc), an album of pugnacious frontline interplay. (The initials stood for ''trombone 'n' tenor.'') His sparring partner here is the trumpeter Freddie Hendrix; on piano is a regular partner, Larry Willis. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $30 cover. (Chinen)
- Frank Wess Quintet (Tuesday through Nov. 6) The subtitle of this engagement is ''Celebrating Coleman Hawkins, Ben Webster and Other Giants of the Tenor Saxophone'' -- a good assignment for Mr. Wess, who at 89 is seasoned enough to deliver firsthand testimony on the subject. His own playing, on tenor saxophone as well as flute, is its own gallant enticement, and he'll be backed by an able cohort: Greg Gisbert on trumpet, Michael Weiss on piano, Noriko Ueda on bass and Winard Harper on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 or $35 cover, students $15 for select sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar; sold out on Tuesday. (Chinen)
Jeff Williams Quartet (Saturday) On his rewarding new album, ''Another Time'' (Whirlwind), the drummer Jeff Williams explores a batch of his own compositions with a smart postbop contingent, notably the alto saxophonist John O'Gallagher and the trumpeter Duane Eubanks, who rejoin him here, in a group with Joe Martin on bass. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHICK COREA: (Tuesday through Nov. 27) Mr. Corea, above, has adopted an array of instrumental formats over the years, from solo piano to orchestra, and in November, to commemorate his 70th birthday, he'll pilot a wide range of them over a nearly monthlong residency. The party begins on Tuesday and Wednesday with an ''unplugged'' version of Return to Forever, his recently reunited (and reconfigured) 1970s fusion powerhouse. On Thursday he plays in an acoustic trio with two celebrated peers, the bassist Gary Peacock and the drummer Brian Blade. There's plenty more
see the club Web site for a full rundown. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net
 $65 cover at tables, $45 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ELLIOTT/CHICK COREA PRODUCTIONS) (C22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (79%)

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (63%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1273 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Catering to an Appetite For a Big Turnaround

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Wrigley Field is the sports equivalent of a food desert when it comes to winning. Thus it was fitting that Theo Epstein and Michelle Obama crossed paths in the news cycle this week.
Mr. Epstein, the onetime executive wunderkind of the Boston Red Sox, took over the Cubs, while Mrs. Obama pushed both her anti-obesity campaign and elimination of so-called food deserts, areas where fresh food is hard to find. 
She faces the tougher task, even as the irrepressible Mayor Rahm Emanuel cajoles retailers to enter food-deficient neighborhoods. Eating decently is a complex matter, with access to healthy food just one element in an equation that includes economics, nutritional education, violence and stress.
''Access is just the beginning of the conversation,'' said Karen Batia, executive director of health outreach for the Heartland Alliance, a social service agency that deals extensively with poverty, human rights and unemployment.
The bigger issues involve related concerns, such as child safety or finding a doctor when ill, that take priority over procuring fresh broccoli instead of buying whatever is cheapest at the nearest convenience store.
Mrs. Obama appeared with the Missile, whose focus on food deserts is admirable, at a South Side Walgreens now selling fresh produce. As I had earlier watched Mr. Epstein's understated coming out at Wrigley Field, I realized that the Cubs' new executive and the mayor would get along.
They are both very smart, driven and precociously successful products of upper-middle-class privilege. Each has a penchant for the empirical, and a lean and hungry, even acetic, physical bearing and discipline.
Each must refashion organizations. ''Building a foundation for success'' is the business-speak Mr. Epstein used during a jam-packed news conference on Tuesday in which timid sportswriters greeted him as if they were a North Side Welcome Wagon.
In pursuit of comity, they let him and Tom Ricketts, the genial Cubs owner, off the hook by failing to ask questions for which both likely had been prepped.
What about that painful late-season demise of the Red Sox, Mr. Epstein's recent problematic free-agent signings or the burdensome long-term player contracts he inherits?
What about Mr. Ricketts's strategy for reviving a failed attempt to snare public subsidies to renovate his antique shrine?
And what's the deal with Crane Kenney, a bright but polarizing team president, who is exhibiting the dexterity of a corporate Flying Wallenda as he improbably survives his third ownership? Mr. Epstein will report to Mr. Ricketts.
But answers to these questions are ancillary to the basic tasks confronting Mr. Epstein and the Missile: reconstructing institutions and creating an environment that empowers individuals to make a difference.
So the mayor stood beside Mrs. Obama and heralded the arrival of fresh veggies to impoverished neighborhoods, while knowing well the overriding societal and behavioral factors sabotaging their purchase and consumption.
As it is with national policy, change is incremental when it comes to behavior toward food. You have to teach people how to exploit opportunities and limit their real-world obstacles, like being scared to even enter a store because of the gangbangers on the corner.
The barriers for Mr. Epstein may be cultural, too. They're symbolized by the odd nexus of the club's shining brand and its poor on-field performance. Impressive attendance defies marketplace logic. How many lousy clubs can nearly fill a stadium when hosting another mediocrity in September, as the Cubs did with the Houston Astros?
Government and private entities can have deeply ingrained and self-defeating cultures. They can harbor attitudes that nourish talent but also eat it alive.
The Cubs seem a chummy operation. The news conference at Wrigley Field on Tuesday included freebie all-you-could-eat angus sirloin with red wine sauce, penne pasta and Caesar salad for the Welcome Wagon.
To me, the fare inadvertently suggested why the odds are stacked against Mrs. Obama in changing our obese ways.
Not only does Mr. Epstein's task appear simpler, but, like the Missile, he has a formidable will.
After winning a second World Series with the long-forlorn Red Sox, Mr. Epstein was urged by Keith Olbermann, the cable TV host, to quit and raise turtles. What was left to prove?
But he wouldn't. ''His measure of success for himself is busting an 85-plus year curse,'' Mr. Olbermann said by e-mail, referring to the Red Sox drought. ''That's his advantage in taking this job.''
And since Mr. Epstein's grandfather and great-uncle helped to co-write ''Casablanca,'' let's wishfully appropriate Humphrey Bogart's concluding line: I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD SECURITY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NUTRITION (76%); RETAILERS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); OBESITY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1274 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: When Letting Students Slip Away Looks Like a Budget Blessing

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the executive editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a column for The Tribune.
Every time a student drops out of public school, taxpayers save money. That's one fewer student, at a savings of more than $11,000 per year from state and local sources.
You might argue those youngsters will cost the state a lot of money someday, as prison inmates or welfare recipients, or as part of an expanding number of weak links in the labor chain when employers come looking for educated workers. 
But the immediate result is that the dropouts save money. And politicians respond to immediate things. Not to kick anyone in particular, but when was the last time you saw a Texas governor or legislator with a 10-year plan? A five-year plan?
When the economy is bad and the favored political trope is no new taxes, no new spending, budgeting is a short-term exercise. Lawmakers stop talking about new programs and such, focusing instead on voters' demands to keep government as inexpensive as possible. The punishment for doing anything else is as close as the March primary.
The dropout problem has a longer fuse. The reward for fixing it is somewhere in the future, way past the next election.
The public schools are on a 13-year clock, starting with kindergarten and ending with the fourth year of high school. The budgeteers are on a two-year clock that starts and ends in even-numbered years. Their horizons are determined by the election calendar. Politicians are actually pretty responsive. They react to the things that will hurt them politically, and to the things that will help them politically. And the judgments they're concerned with are those delivered by voters.
In fact, there is a disincentive to fix the dropout problem, because it would force lawmakers to make cuts in other parts of the budget or to find new revenue. It sets up like something from the science fair: Suppose you got 181 lab rats and gave them cheese if they saved money and threw them out into the streets if they spent it.
Dropouts don't initially look like a budget issue, but if you could wave a wand and end them today -- keeping every student in school for the full 13 years -- you'd be spending a lot of money. You would be a street rat.
How many dropouts are there? That's a political fight, to some extent, for another day. But for illustration, go with these numbers, courtesy of the Texas Education Agency: In the 2008-9 school year, 40,923 students in grades 7 through 12 dropped out of school, and in the 2009-10 school year, 34,907 students dropped out. Total spending per student in the 2009-10 school year was $11,567, including capital spending (operating expenditures per student -- the total cost per student excluding buildings, computers and the like -- were $8,572).
The state pays school districts according to attendance. If fewer students show up, the state spends less.
Based on total spending, it would cost state and local taxpayers $473.4 million annually to educate that first group of dropouts. The second group would add $403.8 million to the annual nut. Only want the operating costs? That would be $650 million.
Since Texas has a two-year budget, and the state's share of operations is about 43 percent of the total, that particular set of dropouts ''saves'' the state about $560 million every two years.
Keep in mind that the numbers are based on a two-year sampling of dropouts from six grades and that adding dropouts over time at least doubles the number and could triple it. And remember that the number of dropouts is a matter of some dispute and that these numbers could be low.
The point here is that the policy problem of children dropping out of school is actually a boon to budget writers if the budget writers are in a bind. It's money they don't have to produce at a time when government revenue is in higher-than-normal demand.
It's a variation on Jonathan Swift's ''Modest Proposal.'' We're not eating the children to save money on their welfare -- just letting them out of school early.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); RODENTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1275 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Longing for Days Of the Big Eight

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
Ten years ago this week, the accounting firm Arthur Andersen sealed its fate when a few partners in its Houston office decided to shred documents related to the collapse of one of its clients, Enron.
The ensuing prosecutorial zeal, however, created another problem whose effects are becoming apparent today -- moral hazard in the audit industry. With just four big firms left to comb through the accounts of the world's multinationals, watchdogs are justifiably worried that they cannot afford to lose another firm. If unchecked, this could lead to shoddy auditing.
Andersen's criminal indictment sent a simple, deterrent message: help cook the books and your business is toast. Yet Andersen's demise led to a concentration of the might of Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. They scour the books of 98 percent of American companies with revenues over $1 billion, according to the Government Accountability Office. The industry qualifies as superconsolidated as measured by the Justice Department's preferred gauge of competitiveness, the Herfindahl-Hirschman index. 
This lock on auditing hasn't necessarily resulted in price gouging. While audit fees have risen substantially since Andersen went out of business, much of that can be attributed to the passage of new rules, like the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, rather than competitive dynamics. That legislation, passed shortly after the Enron debacle, required accountants to simply do more work before they, and the executives at their client companies, signed off on company financials. Fees in 2004 jumped more than 45 percent, according to Audit Analytics.
But that makes it all the more perplexing that in the years after the corporate world adjusted to the changes forced upon it by Sarbanes-Oxley, audit fees actually started trending down.
In 2009, fees averaged $569 per million dollars of revenue, down 6 percent from where they stood four years before, even though the workload required under Sarbanes-Oxley and other new regulations increased. If auditors aren't raising rates in line with more laborious fact-checking, it raises the question of whether corporate accounts are getting the full treatment they deserve.
Cutting corners is a surefire way to make a lower fee structure work. And though professional pride should keep auditors honest, there is no appetite among regulators, or indeed investors and audit clients, to see the Big Four firms become the Even Bigger Three. A belief that none of the remaining giant audit firms will ever be put out of business like Andersen could undermine effective risk management.
In this context, it's worth noting last week's public censure of Deloitte & Touche. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a watchdog set up after Enron's collapse to police the audit industry, told the firm privately in 2008 that its quality controls weren't adequate.
The firm had 12 months to rectify the situation. It didn't, so the oversight board went public with previously undisclosed findings. Among these, the board said Deloitte hadn't done enough homework to give an opinion on some of its clients' books.
Public shaming is one thing. But in a highly consolidated, quasi-monopolistic, business there's a hazard that members of the Big Four don't have to worry as much about whether their actions will sink their company. The 2008 banking panic painfully exhibited the risk of creating institutions perceived as too big to fail. The European Commission could propose a new law in November that would ban the Big Four's ability to audit while providing consulting services to their clients or face being broken up. The accounting oversight board is weighing mandatory auditor rotations to fend off complacency. These are starts.
The optimal solution for companies and investors would be to encourage an increase in the number of firms capable of auditing big companies. More than two decades ago there were eight. Of course, as corporations become more global, the need for economies of scale may require fewer larger firms. Still, the right number is probably more than four.
Andersen's collapse offered just such a chance for a new entrant to emerge. Instead its work was simply absorbed, which suggests the only way to increase competition in the industry is for the incumbents to break into pieces. That ought to be motivation enough for auditors to do a better job than ever before.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justice officials announced the Arthur Andersen indictment in March 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN J. BOITANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (93%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1276 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Weighing the Value of a Law Degree

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Clifford Winston's proposal to eliminate law schools and bar exams in order to lower legal costs (''Are Law Schools and Bar Exams Necessary?,'' Op-Ed, The New York Times on the Web, Oct. 25) is akin to abolishing medical schools and physician licensing to make health care more affordable. While we are at it, why not eliminate education and licensing requirements for engineers, accountants, electricians and plumbers?
Because -- as any economist surely knows -- the price of professional services must reflect not only the immediate overhead costs, but also the societal investment in expertise and quality control. When the free market replaces law schools and bar exams, the incompetence of Mr. Winston's new self-declared ''lawyers'' would be discovered only after thousands of unfortunate consumers learn the hard way that their legal rights are irretrievably lost. 
The legal profession is not a monopoly; competition among licensed attorneys is alive and well. But focusing solely on the cost of legal services misses the point. Our training, licensing, ethics rules and even our malpractice insurance are not designed to protect us. They exist to protect our clients.
JONATHAN E. SMABY Austin, Tex., Oct. 25, 2011
The writer is a lawyer and executive director of the Texas Center for Legal Ethics.
To the Editor:
Clifford Winston was right to question the legal requirement that lawyers graduate from law school before they can practice law. Many students learn little of value in law school. I learned more practical law in two months of studying for the bar exam after graduating from law school than I ever did in law school.
I learned about trendy ideological fads and feminist and Marxist legal theory while at Harvard Law School. But I did not learn many basic legal principles, such as in contract law and real estate law, until I took a commercial bar-exam preparation course after law school.
Getting rid of the requirement that students attend law school before taking the bar exam would save many students a fortune in student loan debt. It would also force law schools to improve their courses to attract students who now have no choice but to attend.
HANS BADER Senior Attorney Competitive Enterprise Institute Washington, Oct. 25, 2011
To the Editor:
Clifford Winston is, of course, correct when he writes that the barriers to the legal profession posed by law school and bar exams ''exist simply to protect lawyers from competition ... that could reduce legal costs and give the public greater access to legal assistance.''
But as a nonlawyer, he misses a far greater problem that makes hiring a lawyer necessary in the first place, overly expensive and sometimes counterproductive. That is the purposeful complexity and ambiguity that is inserted into the law, thereby giving every litigant a hope for success and turning the legal system into a giant game of roulette, which only the wealthy can afford to play.
As a result, even simple cases can mushroom into protracted litigation, often involving multiple appeals, so not even the lawyers can predict the results. Worse still, the judges then have a free hand in deciding the cases any way they wish. However, if the law were made much simpler and more certain so that the parties knew who would win a lawsuit -- and especially if the losing party were forced to pay the winning side's legal bills -- most legal disputes would simply disappear.
But then we lawyers would have to find an honest way to make a living.
JONATHAN ZELL Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (95%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS CENTER FOR LEGAL ETHICS & PROFESSIONALISM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1277 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Advanced Micro Devices Exceeds Expectations After Year-Earlier Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Third-quarter results at the chip maker Advanced Micro Devices beat expectations, and the company forecast higher fourth-quarter revenue on emerging market sales on Thursday.
The company reported a net profit of $97 million, in contrast to a year-earlier loss of $118 million. 
Trouble perfecting the manufacturing of the company's new 32-nanometer ''Llano'' chips added to pressure on sales that were already hurt by a shaky economy and weak consumer demand.
A.M.D., a distant second to Intel in selling microprocessors, said in a release that China and India had helped drive its sales in the quarter despite the manufacturing setback.
''They're gradually improving. Clearly their biggest problem in the quarter was supply-related,'' said Patrick Wang, an analyst at Evercore. ''They'll have a healthier supply level in the current quarter and beyond.''
Intel, which makes the processors for 80 percent of the world's personal computers, said last week that rapid growth in emerging markets like China had helped make up for soft demand for laptops in the United States and Europe.
A.M.D. said revenue in the third quarter rose 4 percent from the year-earlier period, to $1.69 billion.
In late September, A.M.D. warned of trouble with manufacturing and said third-quarter revenue would be up 4 to 6 percent from the second quarter, equivalent to around $1.63 billion to $1.66 billion, less than previously thought.
A.M.D. said revenue in the fourth quarter would rise 3 percent compared to the third quarter, plus or minus 2 percentage points, equivalent to $1.71 billion to $1.77 billion.
Analysts on average expected fourth-quarter revenue of $1.71 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
Shares of A.M.D. rose as much as 4.9 percent in late trading after closing up 8.7 percent at $5.54.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%)

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1278 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; WEEKEND MISER; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: 'Spoons, Toons and Booze,' Sunday Brunch at Union Hall in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
In this time of economic peril you have to admire those who will rally. But sometimes, especially when the price is right, regression is an option. Red state or blue? For a little while, anyway, the only state this Miser cares about is a childlike one. 
Michael Austin understands. He used to love waking up early on Saturday mornings and running downstairs to watch cartoons. Now that he's in his 20s, though, he thinks that the routine needs some new zing. That's why he and his partner, Jerm Pollet, have created ''Spoons, Toons and Booze,'' a Sunday afternoon brunch at Union Hall in Brooklyn, featuring cartoons, a sugary cereal buffet and cereal-themed cocktails. ''It seemed less sad and way more fun to get other people in on it,'' Mr. Austin said. Pajamas are strongly encouraged.
(2 p.m., 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn; 718-638-4400, unionhallny.com; $5; drinks, extra.)
Kipp Osborne, meanwhile, will be screening classic ''Our Gang'' shorts at his Canal Park Playhouse. The theater and cabaret shows, Mr. Osborne notes, are not exactly for children, but they're not just for adults, either. ''The Little Rascals are a perfect kind of metaphor'' for the theater's programming, he said. ''It doesn't matter what age you are, it doesn't matter what your educational background is, doesn't matter what your politics are. The Little Rascals hit us all in a way that is very dear to our hearts.'' Beginning on Nov. 5, you can see Spanky, Buckwheat, Alfalfa, Darla and the rest of the gang, with episodes every Saturday and Sunday at 4 p.m., through Nov. 27.
(508 Canal Street, between Greenwich and Washington Streets, TriBeCa, canalparkplayhouse.com; $9.)
This Miser may be a hopeless romantic with terrible taste in music, but as a child of the '70s, she finds it hard to deny the pull of soft-rock superstars like Michael McDonald. Yacht Rock, a cover band that says it has the ''best excuse to get drunk with your dad,'' will take you back with songs from Mr. McDonald, Steely Dan, Hall and Oates, and more.
(Friday at 9 p.m.; doors open at 8; Knitting Factory, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 347-529-6696, yachtrockrevue.com or bk.knittingfactory.com; $8 to $10.)
FOR ACTUAL CHILDREN
There may be no better way to bring out your inner child than to spend time around one. Take yours to the Haunted Pumpkin Garden at the New York Botanical Garden to view hundreds of jack-o'-lanterns and larger-than-life pumpkin sculptures by Michael Natiello, the creative director of the Historic Hudson Valley's Great Jack O'Lantern Blaze. (Through Sunday; Bronx River Parkway, Exit 7W, and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, 718-817-8700, nybg.org; free with an all-garden pass: $20; $8 for children 2-12; free for members and those under 2.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rob Mies, of the Organization for Bat Conservation, at the New York Botanical Garden, where the Haunted Pumpkin Garden will be on view this weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (69%); POP & ROCK (66%); CELEBRITIES (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (61%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (60%); THEATER (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1279 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 5091 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'All-American' (in previews; opens on Nov. 7) Evan Cabnet directs Julia Brownell's play about a modern suburban family, the latest offering from Lincoln Center Theater's new-talent program, LCT3. Dad (C. J. Wilson) is a former N.F.L. star driving his daughter to glory as the school's top quarterback while neglecting her brainy brother. The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (David Rooney)
'The Atmosphere of Memory' (in previews; opens on Sunday) LAByrinth Theater Company opens its season with David Bar Katz's investigation of the blurred lines between life and art. A playwright's version of the past is challenged when his actual mother is cast in his autobiographical work, while his estranged father offers a different take on their family history. Pam MacKinnon directs a cast that includes Ellen Burstyn, John Glover and Max Casella. Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village, (212) 513-1080, labtheater.org. (Rooney) 
'Blood and Gifts' (in previews; opens on Nov. 21) This new play from J. T. Rogers is a spy-versus-spy drama laced with black humor, described as evoking the worlds of Graham Greene and Evelyn Waugh. Directed by Bartlett Sher, the Lincoln Center Theater commission examines the Soviet-Afghan war of the 1980s through the eyes of a C.I.A. operative. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Blue Flower' (in previews; opens on Nov. 9) Will Pomerantz directs this new musical by Jim Bauer and Ruth Bauer, who chart the relationships of three young artists and a scientist across two continents and half a century scarred by two world wars. The cast includes Sebastian Arcelus and Marc Kudisch, with choreography by Chase Brock, last seen honing new moves for ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.'' Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
Brits Off Broadway (opens on Tuesday) This annual showcase of new productions from Britain returns for its eighth season with nine New York premieres. Highlights include Alan Ayckbourn's 75th play, the dark farce ''Neighbourhood Watch'' (Nov. 30-Jan. 1); from Scotland, ''Nina Conti: Talk to the Hand'' (Nov. 8-13), starring Ms. Conti, the BBC New Comedy Award winner; an adaptation of George Orwell's first novel, ''Burmese Days'' (Nov. 9-Dec. 4); and ''Farm Boy'' (Dec. 6-Jan. 1), based on the novelist Michael Morpurgo's sequel to ''War Horse.'' First up are three solo shows playing in rep (from Tuesday through Nov. 20); they focus on an angry youth, a commodities trader having a breakdown, and a gay fighter preparing for a title bout. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org, britsoffbroadway.com. (Rooney)
'Burning' (in previews; opens on Nov. 14) The New Group opens its season with Thomas Bradshaw's intersecting stories of self-invention and sexual identity, spanning two eras. Scott Elliott directs the play, about a provocative black painter whose work causes a stir in Berlin, and a teenage aspiring actor, recently orphaned, who is taken in by a gay couple in the New York theater industry. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Dancing at Lughnasa' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Irish Rep continues its long association with Brian Friel with this 20th anniversary revival of his Tony-winning memory play about five unmarried sisters in County Donegal in 1936, when the golden summer holds a brief promise that they might escape their sad fates. Charlotte Moore directs. Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'Godspell' (in previews; opens on Nov. 7) Prepare ye the way. With the transfer of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival revival of ''Jesus Christ Superstar'' due to open in March, this is shaping up to be the season of the jousting Jesuses on Broadway. First to arrive is Hunter Parrish (''Weeds''). He leads a flock of flower-children apostles in Stephen Schwartz and John-Michael Tebelak's era-defining 1971 take on the Gospels, directed by Daniel Goldstein, with choreography by Christopher Gattelli. Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Hugh Jackman: Back on Broadway' (in previews; opens on Nov. 10) The Boy from Oz retracts his Wolverine claws and takes a break from training fight-bots to nurture his inner song-and-dance man. Backed by an 18-piece orchestra, Mr. Jackman performs standards, show tunes and pop in an act that comes from sellout runs in San Francisco and Toronto. Broadhurst Theatre, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'King Lear' (in previews: opens on Nov. 8) Sam Waterston marks his 12th Shakespeare assignment for the Public by tackling the most challenging role in the canon in James Macdonald's production, with an ensemble that includes Kristen Connolly, Michael McKean, Arian Moayed, John Douglas Thompson, Frank Wood and, as the Fool, Bill Irwin. In a rare foray outside her customary musical-theater domain, Kelli O'Hara plays Regan. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Love's Labor's Lost' (in previews; opens on Monday) Karin Coonrod wrangles a cast that includes Rebecca Brooksher, Reg E. Cathey, Renee Elise Goldsberry, Francis Jue and Robert Stanton in this Public Lab staging of Shakespeare's early comedy about a king and his three noblemen whose vow to forgo romance for study is tested by the arrival of a princess and her ladies. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Milk Like Sugar' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) A joint presentation of Playwrights Horizons, Women's Project and La Jolla Playhouse, Kirsten Greenidge's play about three black inner-city high school sophomores who make a pregnancy pact comes direct from earning stellar reviews in its West Coast debut last month. Rebecca Taichman directs a cast that includes Tonya Pinkins. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'Now the Cats With Jewelled Claws' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Just when you thought the Tennessee Williams vaults had been emptied, along comes another New York premiere. This experimental work throws together society matrons and street hustlers to face the impending apocalypse with a cocktail and a song. Jonathan Warman directs a cast that features the veteran John Waters cohort Mink Stole and Everett Quinton, a core member of Charles Ludlam's Ridiculous Theatrical Company. The Club at La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, second floor, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Rooney)
'Other Desert Cities' (in previews; opens on Thursday) In Jon Robin Baitz's sparkling comedy-drama, a Christmas family gathering at the Palm Springs, Calif., home of two members of the Reagans' inner circle exposes personal and political divisions as well as dark secrets from the past. Rachel Griffiths and Judith Light join the original ensemble members Stockard Channing, Stacy Keach and Thomas Sadoski, returning from the Lincoln Center Theater Off Broadway premiere last winter. Joe Mantello directs. Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Queen of the Mist' (in previews; opens on Nov. 6) Following ''Hello Again'' last season, the Transport Group returns to the composer Michael John LaChiusa. Directed by Jack Cummings III, this new musical, set in 1901, begins the company's 20th Century Project, comprising 10 productions that each focus on a different decade. Mary Testa brings her brassy belt to the role of Anna Edson Taylor, the first woman to attempt to shoot Niagara Falls in a barrel. The Gym at Judson Memorial Church, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, transportgroup.org. (Rooney)
'Seminar' (in previews; opens on Nov. 20) The in-demand director Sam Gold makes his Broadway debut with this new comedy from Theresa Rebeck. Lily Rabe, Hamish Linklater, Jerry O'Connell and Hettienne Park play aspiring novelists who sign up for classes with a formidable international literary lion, endowed with the acid tongue and droll delivery of Alan Rickman. John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Suicide, Incorporated' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) The fifth season of the Roundabout Underground initiative, dedicated to emerging talent, kicks off with Andrew Hinderaker's play, which unleashes a subversive new employee at a writing firm specializing in suicide notes. Directed by Jonathan Berry, the dark comedy drew appreciative nods from critics in its premiere run last summer at the Gift Theater in Chicago. Black Box Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Rooney)
'Venus in Fur' (in previews; opens on Nov. 8) There are few more overused cliches in show business than ''a star is born.'' But that was the critical consensus when Nina Arianda took charge as a wily actress manipulating her director into submission in this adaptation by David Ives of the 1870 erotic novel by Leopold von Sacher-Masoch. The Manhattan Theater Club transfer of Walter Bobbie's production for Classic Stage Company gives Ms. Arianda a new sparring partner in Hugh Dancy. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Wild Animals You Should Know' (previews start on Thursday; opens on Nov. 20) A wilderness scout camp provides the setting for an erotically charged game of cat and mouse between two unlikely male friends in this new play by Thomas Higgins. Directed by Trip Cullman, the MCC Theater production has a six-member cast that includes Patrick Breen, Gideon Glick and Alice Ripley. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
- 'Follies' The Kennedy Center's revival of James Goldman and Stephen Sondheim's musical about a reunion of Ziegfeld-style performers looks back as much in anger as in fondness, and that's what makes it so vibrant. Eric Schaeffer directs an electric cast led by Bernadette Peters, Jan Maxwell, Danny Burstein and Ron Raines (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Not a natural song-and-dance man, Daniel Radcliffe tries really, really hard as the amoral hero of this 1961 Frank Loesser musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Man and Boy' When Frank Langella plays good, he's fine; but when he's bad, he's a wonder. Here the actor who starred as Dracula and Nixon is charismatically amoral as a 1930s financier who wreaks havoc with other people's money. He is also the one compelling reason to see this revival of Terence Rattigan's 1963 drama, directed by Maria Aitken (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
'The Mountaintop' Katori Hall's surprisingly thin new drama, which won the 2010 Olivier Award, depicts the last night in the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Samuel L. Jackson) and his encounter with a feisty motel maid (Angela Bassett). Perhaps best regarded as a comfort play, a nursery-room fable for grownups (1:40). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'Relatively Speaking' This slight but mostly enjoyable trio of short plays by Ethan Coen, Elaine May and Woody Allen won't do much to burnish their established reputations, but the show is chock full of nifty shtick. Marlo Thomas delights as a pampered princess with a dead husband in Ms. May's contribution (2:15). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, lincolncenter.org. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
- 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs' The accomplished monologuist Mike Daisey weaves the story of the Apple co-founder's life and vision into a darker exploration of the troubling economic disparities that underlie our technology-obsessed age. Smart, engaging and funny, but be warned that you might have second thoughts about purchasing that next shiny gadget (1:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Any Given Monday' Bruce Graham's biting two-act comedy about the consequences of infidelity focuses on Lenny (Paul Michael Valley), who is crushed after his wife, Risa (Hillary B. Smith), leaves him for another man. Lenny's daughter, Sarah (Lauren Ashley Carter), and his best friend, Mickey (Michael Mastro), are furious at him for not being furious at Risa. Plot twists and sharp dialogue, especially Mr. Mastro's, consistently entertain before this fable reaches its cynically amusing, if wholely unrealistic, conclusion (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Daniel M. Gold)
- 'Cymbeline' The Fiasco Theater's charming production brings lucidity, credibility and gentle magic to Shakespeare's bulky, convoluted tale of star-crossed lovers and schemers in old Britannia, with a multifarious cast of six on a naked stage. Directed by Noah Brody and Ben Steinfeld (2:40). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Intringulis' Carlo Alban's engaging one-man show is a modern immigration story told by someone who lived it. (He came to the United States with his family in 1986, when he was 7.) Mr. Alban punctuates the show with Nueva Cancion songs that he performs with affection and force. They're worth the price of admission (1:30). Intar Theater, 500 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, intartheatre.org. (Saltz)
- 'The Judy Show: My Life as a Sitcom' The writer and stand-up comic Judy Gold may not have realized her dream of starring in a sitcom about being a 6-foot-3 Jewish lesbian mother of two on the Upper West Side, but she has squeezed several seasons' worth of wry observations about life, career and family into this consistently funny 80-minute monologue, complete with her own droll spins on some classic television theme tunes. For anyone who misses Mary Richards, Maude, Laverne and Shirley, the Bradys, the Partridges and other familiar faces that populated small screens in decades past (primarily the 1970s, but the late '60s, the '80s and the early '90s also get a look), this will be better than an uninterrupted evening of YouTube indulgence (1:20). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Union Square, East Village, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
- 'The Lyons' The actress Linda Lavin and the playwright Nicky Silver slyly reinvent that creaky archetype, the smothering, belittling Jewish mother. This play, Mr. Silver's best in some years, also reinvents Mr. Silver's eternal theme of the American family as a sick joke. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes an excellent Michael Esper and Dick Latessa (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Brantley)
'The Rap Guide to Evolution' A rapper from Canada with a master's in medieval and Renaissance English literature, Baba Brinkman has been a fixture at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in recent years with his hip-hop takes on Chaucer and on oral epics like ''Beowulf'' and ''Gilgamesh.'' In this entertaining 2009 Fringe First award-winner, he tackles Darwin with humor, sharp analytical skills and contemplative social insights, drawing parallels between natural selection and developments in rap that put a whole new spin on Mobb Deep's ''Survival of the Fittest'' (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555, sohoplayhouse.com. (Rooney)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and Jenn Harris giving a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Isherwood)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
- 'Sons of the Prophet' Stephen Karam's wonderful new play is a comedy about how we endure the unendurable. Santino Fontana leads a flawless cast in a kaleidoscopic portrait of the woes that befall a family of Lebanese extraction and the people in their orbit. As smart and funny as it is deeply compassionate (1:45). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents get to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, despite some overamplification. But most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'We Live Here' Amy Irving plays a needling mother of the bride in Zoe Kazan's play, about a family wedding that stirs up a long legacy of pain. Ms. Kazan, best known as an actress (''The Seagull,'' ''Angels in America''), can write viable dialogue, but the play is schematic and inauthentic. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
Off Off Broadway
'The Greenwich Village Follies' Doug Silver and Andrew Frank's musical revue about the history of the Village is enthusiastically played and has a few nice numbers, but it feels slapdash and not nearly polished enough to pay proper tribute to its dynamic neighborhood. Sunday only (1:20). The Duplex, 61 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, thegreenwichvillagefollies.com. (Anita Gates)
'Mama, I Want to Sing' A largely new cast (seeded from the Gospel for Teens program in Harlem) gives full-throated life to this long-running gospel musical. Quibbles about the thin plot and questionable acting go out the window with each and every tune -- and there are plenty of them. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org. (Eric Grode)
Long-Running Shows
'The Addams Family' Kiddie Goth (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Anything Goes' Champagne decanted by Cole Porter (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Celebrity Autobiography: The Next Chapter' Celebrities read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous. Monday only (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical about an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Berenstain Bears Live! in Family Matters, the Musical' (closes on Sunday, with a reopening set for Nov. 5 at the Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street) The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are now onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Manhattan Movement & Arts Center, 248 West 60th Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
'Beyond Words' (closes on Sunday) In this likable one-man show, Bill Bowers tells a series of tales in mime and monologue (1:20). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212) 868-4444, urbanstages.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
'Dreams of Flying Dreams of Falling' (closes on Sunday) The latest pitch-black comedy from the prolific Adam Rapp is a flashy farrago of a play about dirty deeds in a swank Connecticut dining room. Christine Lahti and Reed Birney lead the fine cast (1:25). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org, ticketcentral.org. (Isherwood)
'A Felony in Blue, or Death by Poker' (closes on Saturday) Daniel Gallant's drama about an unusually high-stakes poker game among five mob bosses chugs along and is practically over before it starts. Despite the ominous subject matter, everyone seems to be having fun scowling and threatening (1:00). Nuyorican Poets Cafe, 236 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 780-9386; nuyorican.org. (Grode)
'Motherhood Out Loud' (closes on Saturday) A compendium of sentiment-enriched scenes and monologues about the joys and agonies of being a mom. If that sounds appealing, the show is probably for you. If not, not (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Isherwood)
'Nightlands' (closes on Saturday) Racial and sexual tensions percolate in Sylvan Oswald's empathic if cluttered memory play, set in North Philadelphia in the early 1960s. The shrewdly conceived characters outnumber the melodramatic flourishes, but only barely (1:45). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Grode)
- 'Southern Comfort' (closes on Saturday) The 2001 Sundance Film Festival Grand Jury Prize-winning documentary was not an obvious contender for musicalization. But Julianne Wick Davis and Dan Collins have fashioned an affecting folk-bluegrass show out of the tenderly observed chronicle of a surrogate family of transgender friends in rural Georgia. As the female-to-male Robert Eads, suffering from ovarian cancer in a cruel paradox of nature, Annette O'Toole is tremendously moving, while Jeff McCarthy brings touching awkwardness to Robert's male-to-female girlfriend. The songs at times push a little hard for their emotional peaks, but the entire cast displays an affinity for the material under Thomas Caruso's sensitive direction, and the authenticity of the story elevates this unconventional, sad-sweet musical (2:15). CAP21 Black Box Theater, 18 West 18th Street, (866) 811-4111, cap21.org. (Rooney)
- '3 2's; or Afar' (closes on Saturday) Mac Wellman's latest play, directed by Meghan Finn, turns Dixon Place into a dizzying echo chamber of images and ideas. It's a good thing the ticket price is so affordable; one sitting hardly feels adequate (1:00). Dixon Place, 161A Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org. (Claudia La Rocco)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE LYONS': The actress Linda Lavin and the playwright Nicky Silver slyly reinvent that creaky archetype, the smothering, belittling Jewish mother. This play, Mr. Silver's best in some years, also reinvents Mr. Silver's eternal theme of the American family as a sick joke. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes Dick Latessa and Kate Jennings Grant, above with Ms. Lavin, left. (2:00). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); THEATER (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); FAMILY (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); ATHLETES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (77%); AFGHANISTAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1280 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Dropbox Bids To Find Entry In Businesses

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Perhaps it should not have surprised corporate information technology departments that employees would use Dropbox, a service for easily sharing files among different devices by storing them in ''the cloud.'' But that did not mean they loved the idea of confidential files on a service they could not control.
Now Dropbox is trying to appease them by selling a service for businesses, Dropbox for Teams, introduced Thursday. 
Add Dropbox to the list of consumer technologies that have infiltrated the workplace, like iPhones, Gmail and Skype.
''With the ability of people to get what they want to get done with stuff they pay for themselves, the whole role of I.T. changes,'' said Ted Schadler, a workplace analyst at Forrester Research. Still, the service has a way to go before large companies adopt it, Mr. Schadler said, ''because it doesn't have as much security and administration as they want.''
For Dropbox, one of the darlings of Silicon Valley with a reported $4 billion valuation from venture capitalists, its new service is a bid to buy paying customers and solidify its foothold in the growing file-sharing business..
It is competing with big companies like Google, Apple and Amazon.com, which offer increasingly sophisticated ways to store, share and sync files, and smaller ones like Box.net, YouSendIt and SugarSync. This month, Citrix Systems bought ShareFile and Research in Motion bought NewBay, both cloud storage services.
Dropbox allows people to access files, like documents, photos and music, on any device wherever they are, without pesky zip files or hulking e-mail attachments. As people edit files, Dropbox updates them so a single file is available on all devices. Most people use it free and can pay for additional storage.
Dropbox, which started in 2007, has 45 million users who save more than two billion files each week. But it has scared some people, too. In June, a security breach left Dropbox accounts accessible for several hours, and a complaint filed with the Federal Trade Commission says Dropbox misled users about privacy.
Dropbox says it uses the same security measures as banks. Files are encrypted and Dropbox restricts its employees' access to files. But security is only as good as a user's password. Dropbox said it is working on two-step authentication, so people would enter a second password sent to their phone, for instance.
''These are all things we take very, very seriously because our reputation and the confidence and trust people have in Dropbox is what we'll succeed by,'' said ChenLi Wang, team leader for business and sales.
Millions already sign up with their work e-mail addresses and the company estimates that at least a million businesses use the service.
Dropbox for Teams, which starts at $795 annually for five users, has 1,000 gigabytes of storage and phone customer support, and gives I.T. departments control over adding and removing users.
SusieCakes, a California bakery chain, has been testing Dropbox for Teams to share petty cash reports in real time and to exchange documents with outside lawyers. The service is easier to use than options like Microsoft's file-sharing service, called Windows Live SkyDrive, said Houston Striggow, SusieCakes' co-founder.
''It's really proven for us to be a powerful business tool that's made us a lot more efficient and productive,'' he said.
But Mr. Schadler, the analyst, said that before it would get widespread business adoption, Dropbox needed features like security controls to automatically stop people from sharing confidential documents. Dropbox says it is working on new features, including extra security measures and collaboration tools.
Of Dropbox's competitors, Box.net has made the most headway in businesses, Mr. Schadler said. Google is also going after businesses with tools like Google Docs, which lets employees collaborate on the same version of a document, and Chromebooks, laptops that store everything online so people can access it from any computer.
Sujay Jaswa, Dropbox's vice president of business development and sales, said its service had an advantage over big companies because it enabled iPads, Android phones and PCs to work together. ''You need a company like us that doesn't have a horse in the race to be there for consumers,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); SMARTPHONES (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CLOUD COMPUTING (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); CITRIX SYSTEMS INC (54%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); CTXS (NASDAQ) (54%); RIM (TSX) (54%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1281 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Jewels of Uneasiness, Faithfully Rendered

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Seeing ''Real/Surreal,'' a marvelous exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art, is like visiting your grandmother's attic and finding it loaded with forgotten treasures. Drawn from the museum's permanent collection and beautifully installed by Carter Foster, a Whitney curator, the exhibition samples a trend in American art that was dominant from the 1920s to the early 1950s. It had painters and printmakers shrugging off the revolutionary formal innovations of Modernists like Picasso and Mondrian and sticking to centuries-old traditions of realistic representation.
As the show's title indicates, painters of readily recognizable if sometimes strange images gravitated toward one end or the other of a spectrum stretching from everyday experience to dreams and fantasies. But it was not a contest between opposed camps. Rather, there is in every artist here a proportionally various mix of the real and the surreal. 
Edward Hopper's ''Early Sunday Morning'' (1930), his famous picture of storefronts bathed in sunlight, captures an experience of urban life with uncanny vividness. Yet a mood of aching loneliness and suspenseful mystery tilts it toward Surrealism. The Italian visionary Giorgio de Chirico may come to mind, as he does in the instances of George Ault's ''Hudson Street'' (1932), a haunting view of an eerily quiet Manhattan industrial area, and of Francis Criss's ''Astor Place'' (1932), in which two nuns enveloped in black habits ominously converse on a corner of a deserted city square. Notice the nearby sign: ''Keep Right.''
George Tooker's ''Subway'' (1950) shifts the balance further toward surreal dream. An anxious woman in a red dress pauses in an underground corridor with suspicious-looking men in long coats lurking in the background. But Tooker's careful rendering of New York's subterranean architecture grounds the nightmare firmly in a familiar, concrete reality. At the Surrealistic extreme Yves Tanguy meticulously painted totemic clusters of bulbous, biomorphic forms in empty, gray space, and Kay Sage, his wife, created semiabstract architectural twilight zones. In their paintings lack of specificity enhances atmospheres of fear and depression.
While there is little here in the vein of Social Realist protest, disaffection from the mainstream of American life prevails. Joe Jones's ''American Farm'' (1936), a distant view of farm buildings on a high plateau surrounded by a deathly landscape of earth eroded into deep gullies and ravines, alludes overtly to the Dust Bowl, which added ecological insult to the injuries of the Great Depression. But it also conveys feelings of isolation and despair whose roots extended to a psychic geography reaching far beyond the borders of the so-called American Breadbasket.
There are those who burrowed deep into their own mystical rabbit holes. With Ivan Albright's bewilderingly detailed watercolor painting of a Western horse saddle from 1947, it is as if we were seeing through the eyes of someone in a state of opiate intoxication. Walter Murch's soft-focus, hyperrealistic grisaille painting ''Governor, II'' (1952) turns the works of an antique timepiece into a numinous, Newtonian metaphor. John Wilde's 1943 self-portrait, drawn in pencil with exquisite refinement, resembles the work of a Renaissance neo-Platonist.
What is the spiritual catastrophe that seems to have almost all these artists in its grip, driving so many of them into morbid withdrawal from the can-do business of modern life? Consider Peter Blume's ''Light of the World'' (1932), a compact, nearly square panel painting made in the crystalline style of a Northern Renaissance master. Three rotund people gaze up at a bizarre rooftop construction: a central pole with decorative architectural fragments attached, topped by a cut-glass globe with glowing light bulbs inside. The title may be taken literally: electricity does light our world, after all. But it also invokes Jesus' declaration ''I am the light of the world,'' and you do not have to be a Christian to appreciate how the promises of technology supplanted those of religion early in the 20th century, leaving a secularized world unmoored from spiritual foundations.
''Winter Fields,'' a painting that Andrew Wyeth made in 1942 when he was leaning toward Magic Realism, puts it more succinctly. With the exacting touch and the pagan religiosity of a Pre-Raphaelite, he pictured a dead crow among dry, brown grasses, a baleful symbol for civilization at war with itself, a silent scream against the violent idiocy of man.
An added virtue of this show is that it tells a lot about what the Abstract Expressionists were so keen to break from. Not only did they seek liberation from the restrictions of small scale and finicky working methods, but they also rejected grudging, passive-aggressive resignation to the soul-cramping nature of modern life. The Abstract Expressionists opted for exuberant abandon in the 1950s, just when American society in general was beginning to offer all kinds of new economic possibilities.
Today it seems we are closer to the suffocating economic and spiritual conditions endured by artists of the '30s and '40s. In a time of endless war, financial instability and proliferating but dubiously life-enhancing technologies, many contemporary artists may find themselves relating more intimately to the works in ''Real/Surreal'' than to the monumental, abstract constructions of shiny stainless steel cube shapes that David Smith made in the early 1960s, now on view in ''Cubes and Anarchy'' on the Whitney's fourth floor. Realism and surrealism are more popular than ever, and the computer screen is the secular light of the world. Modernist optimism died years ago, and we pine for we know not what.
''Real/Surreal'' continues through Feb. 12 at the Whitney Museum of American Art; (212) 570-3600, whitney.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edward Hopper 's ''Early Sunday Morning'' (1930), from ''Real/Surreal.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART)
 George Tooker's ''Subway'' (1950), on display at the Whitney Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART, ESTATE OF GEORGE TOOKER/D. C. MOORE GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1282 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Gauging the Fallout of Another Rescue: Shares Jump on Hope Fueled by Europe's Deal to Solve Its Crisis

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Eric Dash and David Jolly contributed reporting.Eric Dash and David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
World financial markets powered higher on Thursday in the giddy hope that Europe's plan to solve its sovereign debt crisis would finally lift the uncertainty over the global economy and markets. In the United States, a sharp jump in stocks continued what has become the biggest monthly rally in 37 years.
But even as stock markets from Paris to New York joined in the euphoria, some bond and credit market rates barely flinched, especially in Italy. That suggests doubts that the agreement will be a long-term solution for Europe's mountainous debt problem or the pressing challenge of restoring growth to the Continent's moribund economies.
''Clearly, there is a massive celebration going on, but there are lots of worries, too,'' said Jens Nordvig, an analyst with Nomura Securities in New York, who said it was still not clear where European leaders would get the billions of euros in new money they pledged after overnight negotiations in Brussels. ''Not one new euro has been committed,'' he said. ''Not one.'' 
In Europe, stock markets soared, by more than 5 percent in Germany, and by more than 6 percent in France. The stocks of European banks, which the crisis had threatened to overwhelm, bounced back by as much as 25 percent.
In the United States, where the stock market had already rebounded by 14 percent since Oct. 3 on expectations of a European deal and slightly better economic conditions in America and China, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4 percent, moving back into positive territory for 2011. Financial stocks were up more than 6 percent. If stocks do not lose any ground again this month, the S.& P. 500 is on track for the biggest monthly rally since 1974.
''Even if there are still loose ends and unsolved questions, yesterday's summit was an important step in the right direction,'' said Carsten Brzeski, an economist with ING in Brussels, said in a research note.
A boost in global stocks was seen after the last grand European summit meeting in July, only for stocks to fall and the interest rates on European debt and the insurance against default on those bonds and bank debt to spike in the following weeks, as Europe's economies slowed and it soon became evident that the plan was not going to be enough.
After the July 21 deal, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the United States fell below 1,300 after about a week and eventually sank to its lowest level for the year.
Some analysts and investors said that they feared another setback and that the markets would remain volatile.
''You still have these great problems with the global economy,'' said Richard Cookson, global chief investment officer of Citi Private Bank in London. ''Growth is going to fall, and I don't think we have seen the European crisis solved. And, if it is not solved, it will get worse because these things do not stand still.''
Jonathan Loynes, an economist with Capital Economics, wrote in a research note, ''Over all, then, while the plans represent a step forward, we suspect that they will soon be viewed in the same way as every other policy response during this crisis -- as too little, too late.''
Mr. Loynes wrote that he still expected a ''prolonged recession in the euro zone'' and further market turbulence, and he continued to have doubts about the future of the euro itself ''in its current form.''
Just a few weeks ago, stocks were dropping precipitously as the United States seemed headed toward a double-dip recession and Greece, and potentially other weakened European nations, appeared to be headed for default.
But since then, stocks have risen as economic data suggested that the United States had fended off the immediate threat of a recession and that China appeared to be preparing for a soft economic landing as its economy slowed. Stocks have also been helped by stronger-than-expected corporate earnings in the current reporting season.
Questions remain about whether the increase in United States growth can be maintained, although gross domestic product figures released on Thursday showed 2.5 percent annualized growth in the third quarter, the strongest showing in a year, encouraging the stock market rally.
And now Europe has a three-pronged agreement to require private investors to write off half of the value of the Greek bonds they own, order European banks to raise about 106 billion euros in new capital, and create, on the face of it, a much more powerful bailout fund to stop financial crises from spreading to nations like Italy.
The agreement helped conditions in United States credit markets. Interest rates on the debt of banks recorded one of the biggest one-day declines, according to Guy LeBas, a strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott. That confidence flowed through to the corporate sector, Mr. LeBas said, where the interest rates companies must pay on their bonds also dropped.
Mr. LeBas was optimistic that the European leaders' agreement would solve the debt crisis. And some indicators pointed to an easing of credit conditions in Europe, too.
Credit-default swap rates on a basket of Western European government debt dropped 37 basis points to 296, the lowest rate since August, according to Markit. That means investors appear to think the likelihood of default is lower, and the cost to insure $10 million of debt for five years is now $296,000 annually.
But other analysts pointed out that the interest rates on Italian government debt barely moved, suggesting that investors were not convinced that the grand European agreement had changed anything much about Italy's underlying financial state. Italy is now at the center of worries about where the European crisis could explode next.
One closely watched measure of financing pressure, the rate banks charge each other to swap euro-denominated assets into dollars, reached a high of about 1.12 percent in mid-September but has been hovering around 0.95 percent for the last two weeks. It eased only slightly Thursday to about 0.93 percent. Another measure of continued stress throughout Europe's banking system, the euro-dollar basis swap rate, which measures the cost to banks of swapping euros for dollars in the open market, also remained at elevated levels.
''The deal on Europe is likely to not end the crisis,'' said analysts at TD Securities in a research note.
The agreement to require a 50 percent write-down on the value of Greek debt held by the private sector would cut the country's debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, but analysts said this still left Greece with an unmanageably high debt level.
And even this prognosis was based on the overly optimistic assumptions that Greece continued its fiscal restructuring and privatization as promised and growth did not slow more sharply than forecast.
Some doubted whether European banks could raise billions of euros as part of the recapitalization program from investors already burned by the European crisis. And it was not at all clear, analysts said, how Europe would finance its more powerful bailout fund, or what effect this would have on a country like France if it had to put more money into the fund.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at 1,284.59.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended 339.51 points or 2.86 percent higher at 12,208.55, the highest close in the Dow since July 28. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.32 percent to 2,738.63.
The United States 10-year Treasury bond yield soared to 2.39 percent, from 2.21 percent on Wednesday.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about a market rally after disclosure of Europe's plan to solve its sovereign debt crisis misstated the number of years since the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had had a monthly rally like October's. It was the biggest rally since 1974, or 37 years -- not 47 years.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1283 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Accord in Connecticut Yields a $626 Million Jobs Package

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME; Robert Davey contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Facing the nation's worst record of job creation, Democrats and Republicans in Connecticut this week tried something drastic: cooperation. In a one-day special session, they passed virtually unanimously a $626 million economic development package created over six weeks of negotiations.
The state has had no net gain in employment in the past 22 years. At a time of political warfare in Washington and elsewhere and gridlock over President Obama's jobs bill, members of both parties took a rare collective victory lap after the passage of the legislation, which Gov. Dannel P. Malloy signed on Thursday. 
''How often do you see this happening in Washington?'' Mr. Malloy, a Democrat elected last year, said in a statement after the bill passed on Wednesday night. ''Putting people back to work and making Connecticut more business-friendly aren't goals owned by any one party, and they aren't owned by any one branch of government.''
The Senate minority leader, John P. McKinney, a Republican of Fairfield, said Democrats and Republicans had done what the public was demanding.
''I think in 2011, more so than any time I've ever seen in my life, the public is genuinely angry and disgusted with government at almost all levels,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''and when you look especially at the partisanship in Washington, D.C., that anger and disgust is well justified.''
The one-day special session called by Mr. Malloy was not all sweetness and light. A second vote, approving incentives to lure a high-powered research lab to the state, split largely along party lines. But, along with the announcement this week that NBC was moving its sports division to Stamford and creating 450 jobs, it was an unusual moment of amity and good economic news, and a big boost to Mr. Malloy, who is still recovering from the contentious budget battles of the past year.
The legislature, with only one dissenting vote in each house, approved a two-year program of hiring incentives, job training and infrastructure repair, with the majority of it intended to help small businesses.
The bill, which includes Republican ideas on cutting regulation and Democratic ones on worker training, has a monthly business tax credit of $500 for each job created in a two-year period beginning Jan. 1. Companies that hire an honorably discharged veteran, a person with a disability or a job-hunter now collecting unemployment benefits would receive a $900 monthly credit. A grant program will offer eligible companies with no more than 50 employees a subsidy to cover a portion of the cost and training of a new employee for six months.
There will be a pool of $20 million to clean up and sell contaminated state-owned industrial sites; a $125 million, five-year fund for startup companies; film and studio tax credits; hundreds of millions of dollars in manufacturing assistance and work force development; a $50 million bridge-repair program; and a 50 percent cut in a business registration fee.
Fred V. Carstensen, director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut, said the plan was a positive move toward pulling Connecticut out of its malaise.
''It is only a part of what needs to be done, but it's clearly a huge step and a genuinely bipartisan one,'' he said. ''It's probably the most important economic development package that Connecticut has seen in 15 years.''
He was most enthusiastic about the approval of $291 million in state financing to bring an established genetics research institute, Jackson Laboratories, to Connecticut from Maine as part of a collaboration involving the state, the University of Connecticut and Yale University. The state estimated that the project could create more than 7,400 jobs over two decades and provide instant credibility to the bioscience initiative Mr. Malloy sees as a long-term economic development engine.
''This is a transformative kind of package,'' Professor Carstensen said. ''It's like betting on Seabiscuit. It's a proven winner.''
But Republicans, with a few exceptions, voted against the bill, saying there were not enough specifics on the contracts and total costs to the state. Some expressed similar complaints about Mr. Malloy's First Five program, which helped lure NBC and three other companies, by providing incentives and tax credits to the first five companies that create 200 new jobs within two years, or invest $25 million and create 200 new jobs within five years. The jobs package added a second five companies to the program.
Mr. McKinney said Republicans believed that the biggest impediment to growth remained the state's heavy tax burden. Still, he said that if the new jobs package was successful, he would not begrudge any political benefit that went to Mr. Malloy.
''The governor tends to get credit when things go good and blame when things go bad,'' he said. ''If this gets Connecticut to a better place than it is now and the governor gets credit, I'm O.K. with that.''
Some state residents seemed wary but hopeful about the package, the process and particularly NBC's move to the state.
''I am sick of partisanship,'' said Dr. John T. Kristy, 59, a veterinarian in Fairfield. ''I'm sick of the Republicans hating everything the Democrats do, and the Democrats hating everything the Republicans do.''
Asked if he thought the bill would make a difference, he said: ''I don't know, but anything that's positive, I'm willing to give it a shot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy on Thursday at the Capitol in Hartford for the signing of a $626 million economic development bill. It passed with one dissenting vote in each house of the legislature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1284 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Deal for Russia To Join W.T.O. Is Accepted By Georgians

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Georgian negotiators said they had accepted a Swiss compromise that would clear Russia's path to join the World Trade Organization in December, bringing an end to Moscow's 18-year application process. 
Russia's top negotiator in Geneva said his country needed several days to consider the proposal. The negotiator, Maksim Y. Medvedkov, told the news service Itar-Tass that the Russian side would answer next week.
Pressure on both sides has escalated in recent days. Georgia's potential veto power is the last remaining obstacle to Russia's accession to the W.T.O., and must be resolved within the coming days if Russia is to join before the end of the year, a goal set by Moscow and Washington.
The talks had snagged on how to monitor trade that crosses from Russia into Georgian territory, a question that churns up raw issues from the brief war the two countries fought in 2008.
After that conflict, Russia formally recognized two ethnic enclaves, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, as sovereign nations, and its negotiators have cast international monitoring of the border as a challenge to Russia's stance.
The Georgian deputy foreign minister, Sergi Kapanadze, who leads Georgia's delegation to the talks, called Switzerland's proposal ''the final, final, final compromise.''
''We hope the Russian side is going to agree to it,'' Mr. Kapanadze said. ''I really, really hope it's going to work for them. This is an agreement that has everything they've asked.''
The trade group accepts members through a consensus system, meaning that Georgia, which joined in 2000, could block Russia. Although the organization could technically admit Russia through a vote of the majority, that type of accession has occurred only once in the organization's history.
Among the points of friction has been whether trade observers posted in Abkhazia and South Ossetia would represent government entities or private contractors.
The Swiss compromise says private firms will place observers on both the Russian and Georgian sides of the border -- though not inside the enclaves -- to monitor cargo. The contractors will be hired by neutral third parties, like Switzerland or the European Union, said Giga Bokeria, secretary of Georgia's National Security Council.
Late Thursday night, Russia's foreign minster, Sergey V. Lavrov, spoke on the telephone with his Swiss counterpart about the W.T.O. accession talks.
Russian officials have repeatedly warned that Moscow will never agree to demands that soften its recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
''The demands our neighbors are putting forward, they do not involve the W.T.O., but another question,'' said Arkady V. Dvorkovich, an aide to President Dmitri A. Medvedev. ''We cannot meet them, and we will never meet them.''
Russia has the largest economy of any country not in the 153-member trade group, and the World Bank says that as a member, Russia could bolster its annual gross domestic product as much as 11 percent over the long term, though uncompetitive industries might suffer.
During a visit to Washington this month, a Russian official, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor I. Shuvalov, said, ''We have Americans working 24 hours a day on our application in order to persuade other W.T.O. members that Russia should get membership before the end of the year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); VETO (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (97%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1285 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Economy Alters How Americans Are Moving

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA and SABRINA TAVERNISE; Jennifer Medina reported from Los Angeles, and Sabrina Tavernise from Washington.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The continuing economic downturn has drastically altered the internal migration habits of Americans, turning the flood of migrants into the Sun Belt and out of states like New York, Massachusetts and California into a relative trickle, an analysis of recent federal data confirms.
Essentially, millions of Americans have become frozen in place, researchers say, unable to sell their homes and unsure they would find jobs elsewhere anyway. 
An analysis of new data from the Census Bureau and the Internal Revenue Service by the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire confirms earlier census assessments of a migration slowdown, but also offers a deeper, state-by-state look at the impact of this shift, which upends, however temporarily, a migration over decades from the snowy North to the sunny South.
The institute's study compared three years' worth of data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, which was released early Thursday and covered 2008-10, with the data from 2005-7. Since the survey's findings are released in three-year increments, this was the first time that researchers had a set of data that included only years since the financial collapse began, allowing them to make a direct comparison to a similar period before the collapse.
Using this and other data from the I.R.S. that many researchers consider even more comprehensive, they found that migration into formerly booming states like Arizona, Florida and Nevada began to slow as soon as the recession hit and continued to shrink even into 2010, when many demographers expected it to level off. At the same time, Massachusetts, New York and California, which had been hemorrhaging people for years, and continued to do so in the three years before the financial collapse, suddenly saw the domestic migration loss shrink by as much as 90 percent.
Mobility always tends to slow in times of economic hardship, and there has been a gradual decline in American mobility for decades. But census numbers released earlier this year showed that domestic migration in 2010 had plummeted substantially since the recession began and reached the lowest level since the government began tracking it in the 1940s.
''When times get really hard it gets really hard for people to up and move,'' said Kenneth M. Johnson, the senior demographer at the Carsey Institute, who conducted the analysis. ''People who might have left New York for North Carolina are staying put. But that is a very recent change, so that places that had been growing rapidly suddenly aren't, and the outflow has really slowed down.''
Mr. Johnson said that the same phenomenon could be seen within states, as the growth began to slow in once rapidly growing suburbs, and shrinking cities like Los Angeles and Chicago began to stabilize.
In the last three years, Florida saw its first net migration loss since the 1940s, according to the analysis. According to I.R.S. data, the state had a net migration gain of 209,000 in 2005 but a loss of 30,000 in 2009.
Nevada's strong migration gains flipped to a net loss of 4,000. Arizona scraped by, ending the decade with a 5,000 net gain, down from 90,000 five years earlier. Maricopa County in Arizona, home to Phoenix, and Clark County in Nevada, home to Las Vegas, two areas that had exploded with growth at the start of the decade, began to see more people move out than move in.
On the other hand, New York had a net loss of 71,000 migrants in 2009, substantially fewer than the 170,000 migrants it lost in 2005. California saw its loss of migrants shrink to 71,000 in 2009, down from 201,000 in 2005.
The I.R.S. data covered the period through the 2009 tax year, but offered a detailed picture of the country in April 2010, when many returns were filed.
The internal migration data does not include those who came to states from other countries or the natural increase of the population through births. Those changes are major drivers for overall population growth and continued to make the Sun Belt and Western states the biggest population gainers of the decade. And young people, who have long been the most reliable group of new migrants to cities, also appear to be less willing to move to the cities in the Sun Belt.
In an analysis of the American Community Survey data made public on Thursday, William Frey, a senior demographer at the Brookings Institution, found that large metropolitan areas with once-flourishing economies, like Atlanta, Phoenix and Riverside, Calif., are no longer magnets for Americans ages 25 to 34.
''These places that were getting real new interest amid the bubble are not seeing that anymore, and in a way it is making people give another place a second look,'' Mr. Frey said. ''The dynamics of high housing costs on the coasts and relatively affordable inland is starting to change so, in effect, that shuts off the merry-go-round.''
''If nobody can buy or sell their homes, there's going to be a stagnancy,'' he added.
Atlanta, which ranked third as a destination for young people in that age group from 2005 through 2007, sank to No. 23 in the period from 2008 through 2010, according to Mr. Frey's analysis. Phoenix dropped to No. 17 from second place, and Las Vegas plummeted to No. 35 from 10th place.
The winners were cities like Washington, which skyrocketed to sixth from 44th, Denver, which jumped to first from 12th, and Boston, which is now No. 26, up from No. 45.
Mr. Frey said that, in many ways, young people were staying in the more established cities with a kind of wait-and-see approach to the economy. He said he expected the relocation rates to pick up as soon as there were new housing and job opportunities for young adults.
''They are trying to bide their time in a hip place they know,'' he said. ''But there is going to be a pent-up demand for migration, because right now people are just putting their lives on hold.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Migration Between States Slowed by Recession: Migration in several states that saw huge gains in the earlier part of the decade shrank in recent years. Florida saw its first migration loss since the 1940s.
 States that lost huge populations from out-migration in the early 2000s saw a decline in the number of people leaving as mobility slowed nationwide. (Source: Carsey Institute, University of New Hampshire)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1286 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3089 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Museum of the City of New York: 'Kevin Roche: Architecture as Environment' (Friday through Thursday) New York sites connected to the 89-year-old architect Kevin Roche -- among them the United Nations Plaza, the Ford Foundation building and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for which he designed more than 45 projects -- are the focus of an exhibition of his work that will be on view through Jan. 22. Daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (917) 492-3395, mcny.org; $10; $6 for students and 65+; free for children 12 and younger and members.
New York City Police Museum: '9/11: A Uniform Response' (through Jan. 16) Photographs of the Sept. 11 attacks and response, taken by The Associated Press, will be on display at the New York City Police Museum. Mondays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sundays from noon to 5 p.m., 100 Old Slip between Water and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 480-3100, nycpm.org; $8, or $5 for students, children and 65+; free for children under 2, members of the service and museum members. 
New York Transit Museum: 'ElectriCity: Powering New York's Rails' (continuing) A historical display of items from the museum collection, including switches and circuit breakers, that illustrates how electricity powers the subway system. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, (718) 694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum; $7; $5 for those ages 2 to 17 and 62+; free for members.
Paley Center for Media: 'We Love Lucy' (through Sunday) To celebrate the 100th anniversary of Lucille Ball's birth (Aug. 6, 1911), several screening programs will feature excerpts from her television show ''I Love Lucy,'' as well as her other TV appearances. The second part of the first program includes the 1951 pilot episode of ''I Love Lucy''; the 1953 show ''Dinner with the President,'' which features the cast of ''I Love Lucy'' performing for Dwight D. Eisenhower; and a 1975 episode of ''Dinah!'' with appearances by Ball, her mother and her daughter. Most screenings run from Wednesdays through Sundays at 12:30 p.m. at 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 621-6800, paleycenter.org; $10, $8 for students and $5 for children under 14.
Halloween
After Dark at Woodlawn Cemetery (Saturday through Monday) You never know whom or what you'll bump into on this annual tour in the Bronx featuring a folklorist, bagpipers and a cast of characters. Sponsored by the Friends of the Woodlawn Cemetery, it meets at 6 and 7 p.m. at the Jerome Avenue entrance to the Cemetery, near Bainbridge Avenue. Webster Avenue and East 233rd Street, the Bronx, (718) 920-1470, thewoodlawncemetery.org; $20.
Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum: Halloween Events (Saturday) A 6:30 p.m. candlelight visit to the Pell family cemetery, on the premises of the mansion, will be followed by a discussion of paranormal doings at the historic site by Dan Sturges, who has conducted studies there for more than 10 years. 895 Shore Road North, the Bronx, (718) 885-1461, bpmm.org. Space is limited, and reservations are required: $20, or $17 for students and 65+; $16 and $14 for members.
Beastly Halloweens (Friday and Saturday) Halloween is going to the dogs ... and cats and other pets for two costume balls to raise money for animal shelters. On Friday pet owners and their charges can enter costume contests at ''Pups on the Runway,'' held from 6 to 9 p.m. at the Starlight Loft at the Roger Smith Hotel, 501 Lexington Avenue, at 48th Street; there will also be music, dancing and food. Tickets are $25 for humans, $5 for leashed pets, with proceeds to benefit Bobbi and the Strays, a Long Island shelter, (619) 414-9307, bobbiandthestrays.org. On Saturday a Creatures' Ball, for humans 21 and older with food, music and dancing, will take place from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Manhattan Surrogate's Courthouse, 31 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan; tickets are $150 with proceeds to benefit the Mayor's Alliance for NYC's Animals; bit.ly/cbnyc.
Ghosts of the East and West Villages (Friday through Monday) Walkers in pursuit of ghosts may discover one another more than the spectral figures they are seeking on one of the many walking tours taking place this weekend. Edgar Allan Poe, Peter Stuyvesant and their ghostly friends are the subjects of tours led by Ghosts of New York, (718) 591-4741, ghostsofny.com. The Poe tour is on Friday and Saturday at 1 and 9 p.m. and on Sunday at 9 p.m., meeting at 85 West Third Street. The Peter Stuyvesant walk is on Friday through Monday at 7 p.m., with an additional walk at 9 p.m. on Halloween (Monday), meeting in front of St. Mark's Church, 135 East 10th Street. Each tour is $20 by credit card online or $25 in person. A Gotham City Ghost Tour, led by NYC Discovery Tours, covers both the East and West Villages on Saturday at 1:30, 4, 6:30 and 9 p.m.; Sunday at 1, 3:30 and 6 p.m.; and Monday at 4 and 6 p.m. For reservations and meeting place, (212) 465-3331; $18. And ''Macabre Greenwich Village'' is offered by Joyce Gold History Tours on Saturday at 2 p.m., meeting at the Washington Arch, (212) 242-5762, joycegoldhistorytours.com; $18, or $15 for 62+.
Halloween at Coney Island (Friday through Monday) Rides and haunted spaces are open for screams at two locations at the Brooklyn amusement park. ''Nights of Horror at Luna Park'' will feature a haunted maze and scary funhouse along with the other rides (except the Scream Zone and the Cyclone) at 1000 Surf Avenue, opening at 6 p.m., Friday through Sunday; $30, or $20 for high school and college students, members of the New York police and fire departments and the military. Riders in costumes will not be admitted. For those who couldn't get enough of last year's production of ''The Ride Inspector's Nightmare'' at Coney Island U.S.A., a ''director's cut'' update of the show can be visited Friday through Monday from 6 to 11 p.m. at 1208 Surf Avenue, at Stillwell Avenue; the last ticket is sold at 11 p.m., www.coneyisland.com; $10; children under 14 must be with a parent or guardian.
Merchant's House Museum: Ghost Stories, Tours and a Funeral Re-enactment (Friday through Monday) Death will not be taking a holiday at the museum, with a full array of Halloween-themed activities planned this weekend. Candlelight tours of the mansion, considered by some to be the most haunted house in Manhattan, will be given every half-hour on Friday and Saturday from 6 to 9:30 p.m. On Sunday at 3 p.m., a re-enactment of the 1865 funeral of Seabury Tredwell, the former owner of the historic house, will include a trip to the nearby New York City Marble Cemetery; visitors are encouraged to wear 19th-century mourning attire. And on Monday the ghostly history of the museum will be included in two storytelling sessions, at 7 and 8:30 p.m. Tickets range from $25 to $40 ($13 to $15 for members). 29 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-1089, merchantshouse.com.
Mount Vernon Hotel Museum and Garden: Murder Mystery (Friday and Saturday) Just whose skeleton was discovered under the floorboards, and how did it get there? That is the mystery of a fictional game based on a murder that was said to have happened at the historic site years ago. Appropriate for those 8 and older, sessions are at 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. 421 East 61st Street, at York Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 838-6878, mvhm.org; $25; $15 for members; $10 for children under 12.
Museum of the Moving Image: Screenings and Special Effects (Friday through Sunday) Those who love horror films with a humorous or sci-fi twist, as well as those who want to put a face on their inner demons, may want to stop by the museum this weekend for its Halloween lineup. Screenings include ''Alien'' (1979), directed by Ridley Scott, on Friday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 4 p.m.; ''Little Shop of Horrors'' (1986), directed by Frank Oz, on Saturday at 1 and 4 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m.; and ''The Shining'' (1980), directed by Stanley Kubrick, on Saturday at 7 p.m. At 2:30 p.m. on Sunday, the special effects makeup artist Mike Marino, who worked on the films ''Black Swan'' and ''Men in Black 3,'' will discuss his craft and offer tips on creating one's own Halloween creature, with an audience member chosen for a monster do-over. Also on Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Sara Karloff, the daughter of the actor Boris Karloff, will discuss her father at a screening of the film he is perhaps most identified with: ''Frankenstein'' (1931), directed by James Whale. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 777-6800, movingimage.us; screenings and the Sunday event with Ms. Karloff are included in museum admission: $12; $9 for students and 65+; free for members. Friday night screenings are $12, or $9 for students. Admission to the Sunday discussion with Mr. Marino is $15, or $10 for members.
Queens Waterfront Halloween Walk (Saturday) Tales of horror and tragedy that took place in and around the East River will be told during a walk along the water's edge, meeting at 11 a.m. under the Hell Gate Bridge in Astoria Park, at Shore Boulevard. The walk, which will go on rain or shine, is sponsored by the Greater Astoria Historical Society. East River at Shore Boulevard, (718) 278-0700, astorialic.org; $15, or $10 for members and those wearing costumes.
Shakespeare's 'Scottish Play' (Saturday) The curse of Shakespeare's ''Scottish Play,'' better known as ''Macbeth,'' may be tested by a free outdoor performance of the play by Shakespeare in the Square, a New York University student group. Performances, at 2 and 5 p.m., will take place in Washington Square Park, a short distance from Astor Place and the Bowery, where competing productions of the play had supporting roles in a class-inspired riot in 1849. Free; audience members should provide their own seating.
Spooky Silent Films (Sunday and Monday) Dixieland music by the Red Hook Ramblers will accompany a trio of silent films from the 1920s: ''The Haunted House,'' with Buster Keaton (1921); ''Dr. Pyckle and Mr. Pride,'' featuring Stan Laurel (1925); and Harold Lloyd's ''Haunted Spooks'' (1920). Brooklyn Heights Cinema, 70 Henry Street, (718) 596-7070, brooklynheightscinema.com; $15.
Village Halloween Costume Ball (Monday) This granddaddy of Halloween celebrations, in its 32nd year, will feature indoor and outdoor events at Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at 10th Street, East Village. Free outdoor entertainment, including music, juggling and storytelling, begins at 4:30 p.m.; doors open at 7:30 p.m. for music, dancing and a costume ball, beginning at 8 p.m. Formal wear or costumes are required. (212) 254-1109, theaterforthenewcity.net; free for outdoors, $20 indoors.
Village Halloween Parade (Monday) The 39th annual procession in Greenwich Village will begin at 7 p.m. on Avenue of the Americas at Spring Street and travel north to 16th Street.
Events
Amsterdam Avenue Festival (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between 76th and 86th Streets.
'The Emperor's Baker and the Golem' (Saturday) This two-part 1951 Czech film, a historical comedy of switched identities as a 16th-century emperor and his baker join forces to search for the supernatural being that is prowling Prague, will be shown at 3 p.m. The film, directed by Martin Fric, is in Czech with English subtitles. The screening is suitable for those 7 and older; the audience is invited to attend in costume. Presented by the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences, Bohemian National Hall, 321 East 73rd Street, third floor, Manhattan, svu2000.org/newyork; free, but donations accepted.
'5 Dutch Days 5 Boroughs' (Wednesday through Nov. 7) A celebration of Dutch influence on the city's cultural life will feature events at locations around the city. Sponsored by the Netherland-America Foundation, the festival includes art shows, discussions, film screenings and concerts. Schedule: 5dutchdaysnyc.org. Prices vary.
Independent Downtown Republican Club Street Fair (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on University Place, between Waverly Place and 14th Street.
New York City Greek Film Festival (through Nov. 6) This festival, devoted to films from Greece, is featuring screenings and other events at locations around the city. For a full schedule and locations: nycgreekfilmfestival.com.
St. Patrick's Cathedral Street Fair (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Madison Avenue, between 42nd and 57th Streets.
'A Tribute to Judy Garland and Gene Kelly' (Friday) The singer and performer Lorna Luft, daughter of Judy Garland and Sid Luft, will be among those appearing at this tribute with music and dance at 8 p.m. Also appearing will be the choreographer and director Susan Stroman; the performers Noah Racey, Elizabeth Stanley and Carole J. Bufford; and the New York Song & Dance Company. Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (800) 982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org; $50 and $55.
Union Square Broadway Festival (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Union Square, between 17th and 23rd Streets.
Walls and Bridges: Season 3 (Friday) The third part of a French and American cultural series, presented by a French arts organization, concludes with discussions on catastrophes at 5:30 and 7:35 p.m. Earlier sessions of the series, presented by the Conseil de la Creation Artistique of the French government, ran Jan. 27 to Feb. 4 and April 11-21. For a schedule and ticket information: wallsandbridges.net.
Spoken Word
Tom Brokaw in Conversation (Tuesday) Mr. Brokaw will discuss his new book, ''The Time of Our Lives: A Conversation About America'' -- to be published on Tuesday at Random House -- and his broadcasting career with Paul Holdengraber, director of ''LIVE from the NYPL'' at the New York Public Library. New York Public Library, (212) 930-0855, nypl.org/live; $25, or $15 for students and Library Friends.
The 'Chindia' Dialogues (Thursday through Nov. 6) Noted Chinese and Indian writers, including Ha Jin (''Nanjing Requiem,'' Pantheon), Amitav Ghosh (''River of Smoke,'' Farrar, Straus & Giroux), Amit Chaudhuri (''The Immortals,'' Vintage) and Su Tong (''Raise The Red Lantern,'' Harper Collins) are the among those who will be taking part in conversations and panel discussions on the cultural ties between China and India. Events begin at 6:30 p.m. on Thursday, at 12:30 p.m. on Nov. 4 and at 1 p.m. on Nov. 5 and 6. Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org; prices range from free to $20, or $17 for students and $15 for members.
Page Turner: The Asian American Literary Festival (Saturday) The Asian American Writers' Workshop is celebrating its 20th anniversary with this all-day literary festival at the Powerhouse Arena in Brooklyn. A brunch at 11 a.m. will begin the event, which runs through 7 p.m. and includes readings and discussions with writers including Jayne Anne Phillips, Junot Diaz, Amitav Ghosh, Tina Chang and Jessica Hagedorn; Ms. Hagedorn, a Filipino-American, is the recipient of this year's Liftetime Achievement Award, given by the Workshop. Powerhouse Arena, 37 Main Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, pageturnerfest.org; $5 per event; $20 for an all-day pass; $30, includes after-party.
92nd Street Y: Irish Poetry and Sports (Sunday and Monday) On Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Jerry West, a lauded basketball player, coach, manager and Olympic gold medalist, will discuss his career and memoir, ''West by West: My Charmed, Tormented Life'' (Little, Brown & Company), written with Jonathan Coleman. Budd Mishkin, a correspondent for NY1, will host; $29. On Monday at 8:15 p.m., four poets from Ireland -- Eilean Ni Chuilleanain, Leontia Flynn, Rita Ann Higgins and Caitriona O'Reilly -- will read from their works. 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $19, or $10 for those 35 and younger.
Walking Tours
'Foods of the Lower East Side' (Friday and Saturday) The immigrant history of the Lower East Side will be observed and tasted on a tour of the area that includes stops for food sampling. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, the tour meets at 1 p.m. at the Visitors Center, 108 Orchard Street, and costs $45; $40 for children, students and 65+; or $22 for members. The museum is at 91 Orchard Street. (866) 606-7232, tenement.org.
Grand Central Terminal Walking Tour (Wednesday) The historic terminal, which dates to 1913, is the subject of weekly tours on Wednesdays at 12:30 p.m. led by the Municipal Art Society, meeting at the information booth in the main concourse. Photo IDs are required: (212) 935-2075, mas.org/tours; $10.
'Great Crashes of Wall Street' (Saturday) What is most scary: the crash of 1929, the stock market collapse of 1987 or today's economy? All three will be covered on a tour of Lower Manhattan, led by James S. Kaplan and Richard M. Warshauer. Sponsored by the Museum of American Finance, the tour will meet at 1 p.m. at the museum, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 908-4110, moaf.org; $15.
Shorewalkers: Great Bridges of Manhattan (Saturday) A walk of more than 27 miles, starting from the George Washington Bridge and heading south to the Brooklyn Bridge, will meet at 9 a.m. at the George Washington Bridge Bus Station, Fort Washington Avenue, between 178th and 179th Streets, Washington Heights. Walkers should take along water, food and a MetroCard. (917) 783-6540 or (212) 330-7686; shorewalkers.org; $3 donation.
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York' (Saturday) A tour focusing on the area's political history meets at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership, (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.
Recreation
Urbanathlon (Saturday) Athletes who enjoy having a good obstacle thrown in their way will love the more-than-nine-mile course that awaits them at the Urbanathlon in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. Sponsored by Men's Health magazine, the competition is open to men and women over 18 and includes hurdling over taxis, crawling under police barricades and scaling steps. Events begin at 8 a.m. A festival, with music, food and activities, will run from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. The competition is one of several of its type held in cities around the country; the registration fee is $115 per person, or $195 for a three-person relay team. Admission is free to the festival. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (800) 599-5177, menshealthurbanathlon.com. ANNE MANCUSO
Information on events for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com More on the Web: nytinmes.com/arts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHAKESPEARE'S 'SCOTTISH PLAY': (Saturday) What better entertainment for Halloween weekend than a classic tale of murder, ghosts and treachery that carries a curse and opens with a trio of witches? Such a treat will be offered by Shakespeare in the Square, a student group from New York University, giving free performances of ''Macbeth'' at 2 and 5 p.m. in Washington Square Park
shakespeareinthesquare.com. (Above, the witches -- Anthony Pape-Calabrese, top
Dan Hasse, left
and Jonathan Hess -- during a park rehearsal this week.) Adding to the sinister mood of the student production is its setting
the park was once a burial site and is only a stone's throw from Astor Place, where mobs converged in 1849, set off, in part, by fans of competing productions of the play. The park and its surrounding streets will also be alive with walking tours and other Halloween events all weekend, culminating on Monday with the great pumpkin of them all, the Village Halloween Parade. Under an open sky, actors and members of the audience, who are encouraged to provide their own seating,may feel free to say the name ''Macbeth,'' unafraid of the curse said to befall those who utter it indoors. Alas, the weather is a different matter
 the performances go on rain or shine. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY OREN SOFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CALENDARS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); HALLOWEEN (61%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1287 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Can Lift Labor Standards Abroad

BYLINE: By LAYNA MOSLEY. 
Layna Mosley is a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

 BODY:
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.
THE passage this month of free trade agreements may be a victory not only for President Obama, but also for workers in Colombia, Panama and South Korea. Although the anticipated economic consequences of these agreements are small, these pacts also offer a mechanism for improving workers' rights in partner countries.
Some of the delay in completing the agreements was a result of concerns among legislators and activists about labor-related issues in Colombia and Panama. Since the early 1980s, various Congressional acts have required American trade negotiators to include conditions intended to insure fair labor treatment in free trade agreements. While the conditions can vary somewhat, they generally require promises from partner countries to prevent the use of child and forced labor, to require ''acceptable'' conditions of work, and to allow workers the rights to organize unions and bargain collectively. 
But such commitments are often difficult to enforce, and the Obama administration expressed concerns that it might have little leverage over enforcement once the trade agreements were in place. In fact, even when bilateral trade agreements include mechanisms for addressing violations of such promises, the mechanisms are rarely invoked.
There is, however, a more general way in which trade agreements -- and the economic ties they generate -- benefit workers in developing nations. As Colombia and Panama expand their trade relationships with the United States, workers stand to gain more than just the job creation and higher wages that often come with expanded trade. Research I conducted over the last several years with the political scientists Brian Greenhill and Aseem Prakash suggests that trade with developed nations helps developing countries expand labor rights themselves.
Why? International trade gives producers incentives to meet the standards of their export markets. When developing nations export more to countries with better labor standards, their labor rights laws and practices tend to improve. Our findings, which are based on newly collected measures of labor rights around the world, demonstrate a ''California effect'' on workers' rights, in which exporting nations are influenced by the labor rights conditions that prevail in their main trading partners.
The Berkeley economist David Vogel coined the phrase ''California effect'' for that state's ability to raise standards throughout the United States by setting stricter auto emissions standards within California's own borders. Once these standards were enacted in the 1980s, automakers in the United States and Europe began manufacturing vehicles that satisfied them -- and applied those standards to the rest of their production as well, rather than go to the expense of setting different production standards for different markets. In that way, exports and sales to the huge California market facilitated a ''climb to the top'' in environmental standards across the country.
A similar process works for labor standards, we have found. Our research demonstrates that when a developing country with low labor standards trades with higher-standards countries like the United States and those in Europe, it comes under influences from the market itself that improve its labor standards. And this has a greater impact on developing nations than including labor conditions in trade agreements.
This California effect works in two ways, both based on global producers' own calculations of self-interest.
First, multinational companies often carry their management and production technologies with them when they produce goods abroad because, like automakers selling to California's consumers, they find it efficient to standardize their practices in plants, regardless of location. Those practices -- including rules for the appropriate treatment of workers -- then set an example for other employers throughout the host economy.
Second, the multinational company knows that many consumers, activists and shareholders in its home country will judge its imported products on whether they were produced in ways that reflect the firm's public commitment to corporate social responsibility. This spurs multinational firms and importers to press locally owned companies in their supply chains for working conditions that meet internationally recognized labor standards.
Of course, trade is not a panacea for workers' rights: repressive national governments can override the pressures for a California effect.
But trade ties matter, and they matter in a nuanced way. And, for consumers, activists and governments that worry about labor rights abroad (as well as at home), the most appropriate way to raise labor standards is engagement, rather than limiting commercial relationships. Engagement will expose developing countries' firms, workers and governments to the higher labor standards that prevail in wealthy nations, promoting the improvements that workers around the world so desperately need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); EMISSIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1288 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A President Trying To Work the Levers He Still Possesses

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Last week, President Obama proclaimed the end of an eight-year war in Iraq in which more than a million Americans have served. This week, he rolled out a challenge to community health centers to hire 8,000 veterans, former medics in Iraq and Afghanistan, over the next three years.
Last week, Mr. Obama marked the death of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the notorious Libyan dictator who bedeviled eight American presidents, and whose end was hastened by a NATO air campaign that the president supported. This week, he offered a plan to help students pay back their college loans. 
Rarely has the disparity between Mr. Obama's sweeping foreign policy accomplishments and cramped domestic agenda been so stark -- vivid evidence of a president hemmed in by a hostile Congress and a penurious fiscal climate, but still left with some powerful levers to pull as the nation's chief executive.
There is nothing wrong with helping debt-laden students or jobless veterans, of course. Republicans in Congress felt obliged to respond to the White House proposals by highlighting their own efforts to help veterans break into the work force. But the administration's initiatives will scarcely register in a becalmed job market, economists said, and they are dwarfed by historic antecedents like the G.I. Bill.
The president acknowledged as much on a three-day swing this week through Nevada, California and Colorado, where he also announced help for homeowners to refinance mortgages and cut their monthly payments.
''These steps aren't substitutes for the bold action that we need to create jobs and grow the economy, but they will make a difference,'' he said Monday in Las Vegas. ''So we're not going to wait for Congress.''
With the Senate having blocked Mr. Obama's $447 billion jobs bill, as well as individual components of it, the White House plans to announce executive actions, which do not require Congressional approval, each week for the rest of the year. Some will be presented by Mr. Obama himself, others by cabinet secretaries. They will be aimed at groups from veterans to small-business owners.
The flurry of announcements, senior administration officials said, is calculated to show a president who is determined to keep pushing on jobs, regardless of resistance from Congress to his broader legislative proposals. Given the modest scale of the measures, they are as much about symbolism as substance.
''It's just extremely difficult to move the needle on unemployment without spending money, and for that you need Congress,'' said Jared Bernstein, a former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''These are useful measures of relatively small magnitude, but anything helps.''
In a sign of how much importance the White House attaches to this strategy, Mr. Obama scarcely mentioned Iraq or Libya on his Western trip, dwelling on the problems of homeowners and middle-class families. When he did mention successes like the killing of Osama bin Laden, he did it almost in an ''oh, by the way'' context.
Next month, to be sure, the president will attend summit meetings in Europe and Asia, where he will get to talk about weighty, world-leader-worthy issues like the European debt crisis, the rise of China and the future of the Arab world.
Even on the foreign stage, the American president is not the colossus he once was. With little money to contribute and a checkered economic record of its own, the United States has mainly played adviser and cheerleader to Europeans, as they have struggled to manage their debt crisis. But in more shadowy areas like counterterrorism, Mr. Obama has made full use of his considerable authority.
''The constitutional powers of the president are much greater in foreign policy,'' said David Rothkopf, a foreign policy expert who has written a history of the National Security Council. ''He is responsible for the conduct of American foreign policy in a way that is very difficult for the Congress to abridge or block.''
In the case of Libya, for example, the president decided he was not legally obligated to seek Congressional authority, under the War Powers Resolution, before deploying American warplanes to help the NATO-led coalition halt Colonel Qaddafi's march on Benghazi. Republicans and some Democrats on Capitol Hill groused about not being consulted, but they did not put a stop to the mission.
Contrast that to the American Jobs Act, which the president introduced to a joint meeting of Congress and has crisscrossed the country for weeks promoting. Not only did the Senate block the full bill, it rejected a $35 billion piece of it intended to avoid layoffs of teachers, firefighters and police officers.
''Presidents who get sandbagged by Congress frequently revert to what they can do,'' Mr. Rothkopf said. ''They use executive orders; they implement administrative actions; they look for regulatory judgments.''
Presidents from Ronald Reagan to Bill Clinton used executive orders to good effect when faced with a Congress controlled by the opposition. In 1996, Mr. Clinton angered Republican lawmakers in Utah when he declared the 1.7 million acre Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in that state.
Sure enough, Mr. Obama's unilateral action has drawn criticism from the House speaker, John A. Boehner, who told the radio talk-show host Laura Ingraham that he was ''keeping a close eye'' on the administration because he had ''great concerns'' that the president was overstepping his constitutional authority.
Mr. Obama, the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, countered, was ''operating well within the bounds of his authority.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (64%); APPROVALS (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1289 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Why China Should Bail Out Europe

BYLINE: By ARVIND SUBRAMANIAN. 
Arvind Subramanian, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is the author of ''Eclipse: Living in the Shadow of China's Economic Dominance.''

 BODY:
Washington
EUROPE is drowning and needs a lifeline. A series of marathon meetings this week yielded a new set of proposals, but what they depend on is cash -- and lots of it, perhaps trillions of dollars -- to save Greece and the European banking system and to prevent financial contagion from spreading to Spain, Italy and even France, which would destroy the euro zone as we know it. Where to turn for help? The answer is obvious: China.
Indeed, the call by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France this week to President Hu Jintao of China, seeking support for the European Financial Stability Facility, could represent a major change in the global landscape: the consolidation of China's economic dominance at the expense of the status quo powers -- the United States and Europe. 
Despite the agreement among Europe's leaders on Thursday to recapitalize banks on the Continent, the reality is that Europe cannot muster this cash on its own. In part, this is because most countries are fiscally stretched and even Germany, with a debt-to-gross domestic product ratio above 80 percent, is reaching the limits of its check-writing ability. But it is also because Germany seems reluctant to transfer resources, either directly through fiscal means or indirectly through the European Central Bank.
And with a United States essentially sidelined because of its own economic and fiscal weakness, it is even less of a surprise that the S O S is going out to China. Only China, with its $3 trillion in reserves, is now able to provide the magnitudes of relief that Europe desperately needs.
What should China do? So far, it has opted not to be an active financier of the European countries threatened by crisis. But that is increasingly becoming a less tenable position. China is the world's major exporter, and averting economic collapse in the indebted importing countries of Europe will be very much in China's interest.
But China has a choice. It can help Europe bilaterally by back-stopping the stability facility, as Europe has requested, or by guaranteeing to buy Italian and Spanish bonds at a rate that would keep these countries' finances sustainable (much as the European Central Bank ought to be doing). Or it can help by providing the International Monetary Fund with additional money to, in turn, lend to Europe.
From China's perspective, the possible advantage would be to exert power to obtain direct and concrete benefits. For example, it could ask for market economy status in Europe, which would reduce the scope for protectionist action against Chinese goods entering the European market. It could also seek to buy companies in distressed countries on advantageous terms.
The risks in this bilateral approach are considerable. It would expose China to the charge of becoming enmeshed in European politics. Domestically, it would expose the government to the charge of privileging foreign investment at the expense of investing in what is still a poor country with great development needs and challenges.
Helping Europe by strengthening the I.M.F. and increasing its lending would avoid some of these political costs, especially since China would not be directly involved in European politics and problems. But China would have to receive something considerable in return for the extra resources that it would be providing.
China should demand nothing less than a wholesale revamping of the governance of the I.M.F. to reflect the current economic realities. Governance reform can no longer be just about the nationality of the I.M.F.'s managing director but should fundamentally be about who will have the greatest voice and exercise the most power in the new world.
Today, the United States and Europe each have effective veto power in the I.M.F. because important decisions require an 85 percent share of the vote. If China were to become the I.M.F.'s major financier it should have veto power on terms equivalent to those of the United States. Europe's power should be reduced commensurate with its transition from creditor to potential borrower status. Supplicants, China should insist, cannot have veto power in a financial institution.
The Chinese government could then trumpet a nationalist achievement -- equal status as the United States, and a greater status than that of Europe, in running the world's premier financial institution -- as the return for investing its cash abroad.
These demands would be legitimate and indeed be welcome for the world because they would tether China more firmly to, and create a stake for it in, the multilateral system. Those in the United States and Europe who would resist these changes should remember that the alternatives are worse. A China that uses its might bilaterally to gain narrow political advantages would be a worrying portent for the future when China becomes economically bigger and stronger. And a China that refuses to take the phone call at all could well push Europe off the cliff. Europeans are running out of options; debtors cannot be choosers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (70%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); CHINA (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); GREECE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1290 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Hums as Higher Prices Bolster Quarterly Profits at Exxon and Shell

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell reported robust profits on Thursday for the third quarter based on higher oil prices and better refining margins.
Earnings for the oil industry have been strong all week, especially for service companies like National Oilwell Varco and Weatherford International, which have benefited from rapidly growing drilling operations in shale oil and gas fields around the United States and a resumption of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Exxon Mobil, the largest American oil company and an active driller in new shale fields in the United States, Europe and Argentina, said its capital and exploration expenditures of $26.7 billion for the first nine months of the year represented a record. Still, natural gas production was flat and oil production was moderately lower in the latest quarter, disappointing Wall Street analysts. 
''We continue pursuing new opportunities to meet growing energy demand while supporting economic growth, including job creation,'' Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon Mobil's chairman, said in a statement.
The rise in oil prices over the last year has spurred the drilling activity, but it may be difficult for oil companies to sustain the earnings momentum since they will face stiffer earnings comparisons in the fourth quarter and into 2012. Also, natural gas prices have been weakening.
Oil prices began a steady climb at the end of last year because of expectations that the global economy was recovering and sudden fears of supply shortages as political turmoil began spreading across North Africa and the Middle East.
The Brent oil benchmark price jumped nearly 50 percent in the July through September period, compared with the year before, but oil prices have eased a bit in recent months.
Many energy experts say oil prices can remain at current high levels, but only if Europe averts a financial collapse; the United States avoids another recession; and China, India and other developing countries continue to grow strongly. A MasterCard SpendingPulse survey released this week showed that demand for gasoline in the United States declined by 2.8 percent for the week ending Oct. 21, compared with a year ago. Demand in Europe has also eased, although it has been more resilient in developing countries.
Supplies are also uncertain, and they remain tight.
The turmoil in Libya took 1.3 million barrels a day of high-quality crude off world markets earlier in the year. Exports are flowing again but at much reduced rates. Meanwhile violence in Nigeria has put production there in doubt.
Exxon Mobil reported that its net income rose to $10.33 billion in the three months through September, from $7.35 billion a year earlier. But analysts were not impressed. ''Production volumes and chemical earnings are tracking below our full-year estimates,'' Allen Good, a Morningstar analyst, wrote in a note.
Net income at Shell, the biggest oil company in Europe, rose to $6.98 billion in the quarter from $3.46 billion in the same period a year earlier.
''Shell did a lot better than expected, but Exxon came roughly in line,'' said Fadel Gheit, senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. ''Shell had higher than expected production and better than expected refining and chemical results.''
Thursday in the United States, shares of Exxon closed at $81.88 up 1 percent. Shell's Class A American depositary receipts were at $73.33, up nearly 2 percent. Benchmark oil prices rose by more than 3 percent. Shell's chief executive, Peter Voser, said in a statement, ''We are making good progress against our targets, to deliver a more competitive performance.''
Mr. Voser said Shell was moving ahead with its plan to focus on its most valuable assets and invest in new projects to ensure continued production. Shell has completed $6.2 billion of asset sales so far this year -- $1.8 billion of them in the third quarter. Shell had planned to raise $5 billion from asset sales this year.
New projects in Qatar and Canada helped production levels, Shell said. The projects are part of a $100 billion b investment program
While oil company earnings have been generally strong, several other companies this week have reported a drop in production volumes because of a variety of problems, including the turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, production shortfalls in Alaska and the North Sea, and interruptions in production because of an oil spill in China.
ConocoPhillips, which reported a 12 percent production drop, said it was increasing its exploration and production budget by roughly $2 billion, or nearly 15 percent, next year. BP said that it expected production to grow as it prepares to drill again in the Gulf of Mexico more than a year after the Deepwater Horizon disaster.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex W. Tillerson, chief executive of Exxon Mobil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON JANIK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%); WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD (90%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%); WH4 (FRA) (90%); WFT (SWX) (90%); WFT (PAR) (90%); WFT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (90%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (90%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1291 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Medicare Premium Is Lower Than Predicted

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Monthly Medicare premiums for most beneficiaries will rise next year by $3.50, to $99.90, a much smaller increase than had been expected, the Obama administration said Thursday.
Administration officials rejoiced at the modest increase, which could pay political dividends to President Obama as he tries to win the votes of older Americans in his bid for re-election.
In May, the administration predicted that most beneficiaries would be paying premiums of $106.60 a month in 2012. 
Administration officials said the smaller increase showed their prudent management of the program, using tools provided by the new health care law to control costs.
Jonathan D. Blum, deputy administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said officials were seeing ''much lower utilization and spending growth'' in Medicare than they had expected.
Most Medicare beneficiaries have premiums withheld from their monthly Social Security benefits. In most cases, the cost-of-living adjustment in Social Security, averaging $43 a month for retired workers in 2012, will more than offset the increase in premiums, officials said.
Premiums for most Medicare beneficiaries have been frozen at $96.40 a month since 2008. Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said the small increase in premiums, amounting to less than 4 percent in four years, was ''pretty remarkable.'' Average premiums paid by workers for employer-sponsored health insurance have increased far more -- well over 20 percent since 2008, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Medicare premiums for most beneficiaries have been held in check by a law that, in effect, prevents any reduction in Social Security payments that might be caused by an increase in premiums. Because of low inflation, Social Security beneficiaries did not receive cost-of-living adjustments in 2010 or 2011. About three-fourths of Medicare beneficiaries were therefore shielded against any increase in premiums.
David M. Certner, legislative policy director of AARP, the lobby for older Americans, said he was pleased that the increase in premiums would be lower than expected. But, he said, ''seniors still face the very real threat of cuts to Medicare or Social Security'' under recommendations being developed by a joint Congressional committee on deficit reduction.
Mr. Certner said the committee was considering proposals that would establish new co-payments for home health care and clinical laboratory services and reduce future cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security.
''These changes would far outweigh today's good news,'' Mr. Certner said.
Premiums are set to cover about 25 percent of projected spending under Part B of Medicare, a voluntary program that covers doctors' services, diagnostic tests and outpatient hospital care for 48 million people who are 65 and older or disabled.
High-income people pay higher premiums, based on a sliding scale. For the most affluent beneficiaries -- individuals with annual incomes of more than $214,000 and couples over $428,000 -- the monthly premium next year will be $319.70, the administration said.
About 5 percent of Medicare beneficiaries now pay higher premiums based on income. The proportion would eventually rise to 25 percent under a deficit-reduction plan proposed last month by Mr. Obama.
The annual deductible for Part B of Medicare, the amount that beneficiaries pay for services before Medicare starts to pay, will be $140 next year, down $22 from this year. The deductible for Part A of Medicare, which covers inpatient hospital care, will rise by $24, to $1,156 next year.
Medicare officials said the modest increase in premiums for coverage of doctors' services was part of a welcome trend. Earlier this year they announced that average premiums for private Medicare Advantage plans would decrease by 4 percent and that premiums for Medicare's prescription drug plans would be virtually unchanged in 2012. Both types of plans are operated by insurance companies under contract with the government.
In calculating premiums for Part B, Medicare officials assumed that the program would continue paying doctors next year at current rates or slightly more. The payment formula in existing law would reduce Medicare doctors' fees about 29 percent next year, but Congress has regularly intervened to block such cuts.
The upbeat view of Medicare officials on Thursday stands in stark contrast to the grim financial outlook that prevails on Capitol Hill. Republican lawmakers, in particular, are urgently seeking ways to rein in the growth of the program, which they describe as unsustainable.
The smaller-than-expected increase in premiums in 2012 results indirectly from renewed inflation in the last year. The administration announced last week that, because of the uptick in consumer prices, Social Security recipients would get a 3.6 percent increase in benefits in 2012. As a result, more people will also be subject to higher Medicare premiums.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (93%); MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGING (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); HOSPITALS (70%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (70%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); MEDICAID (58%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1292 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: In Small Burst of Bipartisanship, House Passes Two Pieces of Jobs Bill

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the millions of Americans despondent over the inability of Democrats and Republicans to agree on a single piece of new jobs legislation: Fear not!
On Thursday, the House passed a very modest measure to end a tax withholding program, one that had yet to affect a single American, but which President Obama has agreed should go. No word from the Senate yet -- those members are back in their home states this week taking a breather from their legislative labors -- but chances are the bill will clear that chamber, too.
The withholding bill, which passed 405 to 16, did not carry quite the significance of potential measures to overhaul the tax code, make sweeping changes to entitlement programs or eliminate the waste, fraud and abuse that lawmakers so often cite as their central legislative goals. 
But it was something else that those ideas are not -- politically viable.
Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the majority leader, rhapsodized from the House floor on Thursday about the measure, which he called a ''bipartisan and common-sense solution to support the small-business men and women of our economy so that they can begin to support and begin to regenerate our ailing economy.''
That a bill repealing a never-implemented requirement on a fairly small number of businesses was celebrated like a hometown team just back from winning the World Series underscores just how big small accomplishments really are these days in Washington, where a long economic crisis and rampant voter disgust are no match for deep-seated partisan gridlock.
Outside of a few recent flashes of light -- the passage of three trade bills this month, and an agreement on patent reform -- there have been no big bipartisan jobs initiatives in this Congress.
Republicans have broadly rejected Mr. Obama's sweeping proposal to cut some taxes, raise others and stimulate hiring through government spending, denouncing it as a stimulus measure doomed to harm the economy.
Senate Democrats have largely snubbed Republicans' measures to repeal government regulations, saying such efforts will not create jobs. Further, the bipartisan Congressional committee charged with eliminating $1.2 trillion in federal debt has made little progress, for now, over how to get there.
After Thursday's vote, Speaker John A. Boehner and other Republican House leaders convened a news conference to discuss their deregulation bills that the Senate has buried -- referring to them as ''the forgotten 15,'' like a litter of kittens left at the shelter -- while the White House press secretary berated Republicans for not passing the president's jobs bill, even though it lacks sufficient support from his own party in the Senate.
''I would respectfully suggest to the speaker,'' said the press secretary, Jay Carney, ''that perhaps he should, and the House should, focus on what the American people are insisting that Washington in general focus on, which is the need to grow the economy and create jobs.''
And so it is now in Washington politics, where miniatures are the art of the possible. ''Here's one that all 100 Senators should agree on,'' Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, said in a statement. ''Let's vote on it, and prove the skeptics wrong by acting in a bipartisan fashion on something that the job creators in this country actually want.''
The withholding provision -- passed as part of a larger tax bill under the Bush administration with strong Republican support but delayed for various reasons until 2013 -- would repeal the requirement that federal, state and local agencies withhold 3 percent of certain payments to companies doing business with the government.
This requirement was originally adopted as a tax-compliance measure, and the Congressional Budget Office said its repeal would reduce federal revenues by $11 billion over 10 years. The withholding requirement would have presented ''huge accounting burdens on governments and potentially harmful cash-flow disruptions for suppliers, contractors and subcontractors,'' Mr. Cantor said.
More controversial was another measure that passed the House on Thursday, this one meant to compensate for the projected loss in withholding revenues and fix an apparent error in the health care law, under which hundreds of thousands of middle-income early retirees can get nearly free Medicaid coverage meant for the poor. Under the new measure, those recipients would no longer be eligible.
''I very strongly believe that it is our duty to ensure that scarce Medicaid resources are there for the most in need,'' said Representative Diane Black, Republican of Tennessee, who sponsored the bill to pay for the repeal.
While Obama administration officials have acknowledged that the coverage was unintended when the legislation was written, it is popular among many Democrats who believe it is a way for retirees who cannot afford health care plans to obtain them.
''I don't care if the president is going to sign this bill,'' said Representative Joseph Crowley of New York, who argued against the bill on the House floor. ''That doesn't make it right.''
Mr. Crowley pushed his line of reasoning further, suggesting that Republicans would seek to reduce the number of Americans eligible for individual retirement arrangements or adoption tax credits. Ms. Black, quickly flanked by aides flapping reams of papers, looked flummoxed, almost alarmed, for all who watch C-SPAN to see.
The measure passed 262 to 157, with all nays coming from Democrats. While the withholding bill appears to enjoy broad support in the Senate, the Medicaid one may also meet resistance among Democrats there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House G.O.P. leaders, from left, John A. Boehner, Kevin McCarthy and Eric Cantor called on the Senate to act on stalled bills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); CATS (60%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1293 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Moving Beyond Civil Rights

BYLINE: By RICHARD THOMPSON FORD. 
Richard Thompson Ford, a professor of law at Stanford, is the author of ''Rights Gone Wrong: How Law Corrupts the Struggle for Equality.''

 BODY:
Stanford, Calif.
CIVIL rights have transformed American society, and made it fairer and less divided, by outlawing overt racial discrimination and making bigotry socially unacceptable. That success has inspired a host of social groups to press for new civil rights.
But civil rights have barely made a dent in today's most severe and persistent social injustices, such as the disproportionate incarceration of African-Americans, the glass ceiling that blocks career advancement for many women and high unemployment among the elderly; in fact, some of these problems have gotten worse despite civil rights laws intended to address them. Today's most pressing injustices require comprehensive changes in the practices of the police, schools and employers -- not simply responses to individual injuries. 
It's tempting to insist that we simply need more of what has worked in the past: more civil rights laws and more lawsuits. Today, Americans think of almost every social injustice as a civil rights issue. The result has been an explosion of new claims; for instance, the number of lawsuits alleging employment discrimination almost tripled between 1991 and 2000. As civil rights have been reshaped in the attempt to serve so many diverse ends, they have become almost infinitely plastic. Consequently, today civil rights are as likely to undermine equality as they are to further it.
The most striking example of civil rights gone wrong is the repudiation of school integration: in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) the Equal Protection Clause was read to require desegregation, while in Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1 (2007) it was turned around to prohibit efforts to achieve integration.
To be sure, part of the problem is a federal bench that has grown increasingly hostile to civil rights over the past three decades, but that's unlikely to change. The progressive jurisprudence of the 1960s was an aberration; a reactionary judiciary was the historical norm in American history from Reconstruction through the New Deal.
The problem is not simply the judiciary. The attempt to achieve collective justice through individual entitlements is inherently conflicted. Litigation driven by individuals often produces perverse effects. For example, because laws prohibiting age discrimination outlaw mandatory retirement, older executives and professionals who suffer little if any discrimination can extract lucrative ''golden handshake'' retirement incentives from their employers. But because job seekers rarely sue over the job that got away, those laws don't address a bigger problem: age discrimination in hiring.
Similarly, civil rights intended to help profoundly disabled students don't work well in cases involving mild learning and emotional disabilities that even experts can't distinguish from garden-variety eccentricity or poor concentration. As a result poor and minority children tend to be tracked into dead-end remedial or special education classes, while children with similar conditions but wealthier and savvier parents receive one-on-one instruction, immunity from discipline and sometimes even private school paid for at public expense.
The recent unsuccessful sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart demonstrates the inadequacy of the civil rights model. The suit accused Wal-Mart of a nationwide pattern of sex discrimination potentially affecting over a million women. Women were 72 percent of the hourly wage employees from whom Wal-Mart typically selected its managers -- but were less than 10 percent of store managers and only 4 percent of district managers. Despite this statistical evidence, the Supreme Court rejected the lawsuit in June, saying there was no evidence of a nationwide policy or coordinated practice of discrimination, since most staffing decisions were left to store and district managers.
Statistics can show a pattern of discrimination, but they are not enough to prove that any particular woman was discriminated against. Wal-Mart managers typically used vague criteria like ''teamwork'' and ''integrity'' to give promotions. It's easy for bias to hide out in the fog of subjectivity such decisions entail: how can a plaintiff prove that she had more integrity than the man who got the promotion she deserved?
Individual managers may have unconsciously allowed stereotypes to influence their decisions. This kind of inadvertent discrimination is less like Jim Crow racial bigotry and more like a workplace accident. Just as we reduce the risk of accidents through comprehensive occupational safety and health regulations rather than relying on lawsuits after the damage is already done, we could regulate employment practices to reduce the risk of discrimination.
An effective approach might use carrots and sticks: proof that a business used the best employment practices to reduce discrimination -- reviewing decisions for potential bias, monitoring long-term trends and adopting more objective hiring and promotion criteria -- might constitute a defense to certain kinds of civil liability, while businesses that failed to make reasonable efforts to prevent discrimination would face fines. Clear goals would replace the constant threat of litigation, and the law would seek to prevent discrimination instead of simply punishing it after the fact.
Similar reforms could further other civil rights goals. Some police departments have agreed to collect data about the people they stop and frisk (and often arrest) to see whether any racial imbalances are justified. Why not make such auditing standard practice nationwide and give the police incentives -- even immunity from some kinds of civil liability -- to discourage profiling?
Such reforms would mirror developments in international human rights, where some advocates have come to focus less on individual grievances than on improving the standard practices of governments and monitoring these practices through comprehensive auditing.
Moving from lawsuits to comprehensive solutions would mean compromising the ideal that every victim of discrimination was entitled to redress. That may seem like a betrayal of the civil rights legacy, but the real betrayal would be to fail to keep pace with the very social changes civil rights helped to bring about. If civil rights ideals are to be as relevant in the 21st century as they were in the 20th, we must adapt the tactics of the past to the complexities of the present.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE SPIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELDER LAW (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); CHILDREN (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WOMEN (78%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HISTORY (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1294 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Gauging the Fallout of Another Rescue: Harsh Realities May Challenge Initial Enthusiasm

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH; Landon Thomas Jr. and Jack Ewing contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Another European plan to fix its sovereign debt problem has initiated another sharp market rally. But will the enthusiasm over the latest rescue effort last longer than the optimism that greeted past plans, only to slowly fade away?
The market's quick embrace of the latest effort to tackle Greece's mammoth debt burden and restore confidence in the Continent's banks reflected hope that this plan was broader and more robust than previous ones.
''It's not a silver bullet, but it makes things manageable to some extent,'' said Gilles Moec, co-head of economic research for Deutsche Bank. Though vague on details, others said, it is clearly a step in the right direction after many missteps.
But skeptics quickly emerged, saying some of the main elements of the plan may not be as good as they looked initially, starting with whether it will truly deliver as much debt relief to Greece as promised, and whether it is sufficient to buttress potentially troubled banks. 
Moreover, they add, plenty of things will have to go right to ensure its success, and plenty could go wrong to derail it.
''It's another patchwork effort,'' said Richard Cookson, global chief investment officer of Citi Private Bank. ''It's trying to tide things over for the euro zone, and it has worked a bit today. But the half-life of the euphoria seems to diminish with every package that comes along.''
And David Watts, senior European strategist for CreditSights, said, ''It's certainly hard to see this as the bazooka that the market has been calling for. There are very real risks that this will prove to be just another divot in the road.''
The yield on Italy's 10-year bond, which recently hit a high of 6 percent on concern over the country's debt and commitment to fiscal reform, remained uncomfortably high at 5.8 percent after the agreement was announced. And the interest rates on Spanish and French bonds narrowed only slightly as well, reflecting a deeper concern that this plan would not provide a magic cure for Europe's debt problems.
Finally, even if all the components fall into place for Greece, looming on the horizon is the debt burden of other countries, including Ireland, Portugal, Spain and especially Italy, which owes more than $2 trillion and is the world's fourth-largest borrower after the United States, Japan and Germany. ''Everything depends on Italy,'' said Luder Gerken, director of the Center for European Policy in Freiburg, Germany.
The cornerstone of the latest plan, which helped feed investor enthusiasm, is a 50 percent reduction of Greece's government debt.
But this -- the simplest part of the blueprint -- comes with asterisks.
Of the 340 billion euros in Greek government debt, only about 200 billion euros -- most of it owed to banks -- falls under the scope of the accord, meaning the country's total sovereign debt would be reduced by about 30 percent at best. The rest of the debt is controlled by the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other institutions that have said they would not participate in a debt restructuring.
But even a 30 percent reduction in Greece's debt load is not assured. That is because the 50 percent write-off on the value of Greek debt, the so-called haircut that policy makers want banks and other financial institutions, to accept, is voluntary. Since Greek government bonds are trading at about 40 percent of their face value, officials from the Institute of International Finance, which represented the banks in the marathon negotiations with European leaders, said the number of participants was ''very likely to be very high.''
Still, it is far from certain all those volunteers will materialize.
Antonio Garcia Pascual, Barclays Capital's chief economist for southern Europe, said he feared that many hedge funds and nonbank investors would hold out for better terms. If enough of those investors balk, the deal could fall through.
That may leave European officials in the unenviable position of either filling in the financing gap with government-backed funds or forcing an involuntary loss of 50 percent on private creditors, in turn initiating a default on the bonds, which policy makers fear would make it harder for Greece to raise money from public markets in the future.
''You cannot have a lot of holdouts,'' Mr. Garcia Pascual said. ''If you want to get the debt relief you need for Greece, you may be forced to impose a haircut.''
Even if most private lenders and investors sign off, and the restructuring is completed voluntarily, Greece will still be heavily burdened with debt.
The 120 percent debt-to-gross-domestic-product goal for 2020 assumes that Greece will be generating a budget surplus equal to 4.5 percent of G.D.P. by 2014, and that the Greek economy will be growing at 3 percent annually by 2016, said David Tan, lead portfolio manager of the international fixed income group at J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
In reality, the I.M.F. expects Greece's economy to contract by 5.5 percent this year and 2.5 percent in 2012, as austerity measures imposed as part of earlier restructuring efforts go into effect. ''If you make less heroic assumptions on growth, debt doesn't come down very much at all,'' Mr. Tan said.
Another main element of the plan is to shore up 70 of Europe's biggest banks by requiring them to raise 106 billion euros in fresh capital, to help them offset the losses they will suffer in taking haircuts on Greek bonds and the drop in value of other sovereign debt they own.
But that is not a sure thing, either.
In contrast to bank rescue plans in the United States and Britain, European governments are not injecting funds directly into financial institutions. Instead they are asking banks to turn to private investors to significantly raise their capital level, to 9 percent by next year. Raising money from private investors will be difficult, though, especially as many of the likely sovereign fund candidates are the same ones that suffered deep losses from investing in troubled American banks in 2007 and 2008.
In addition, some economists say that European banks are so burdened with bad sovereign debt that they need to raise far more than 106 billion euros to become healthy. Some estimate they need to raise 300 billion euros, or three times that amount.
Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, said that 106 billion euros might allow European banks to absorb losses stemming from a Greek debt restructuring, ''but I'm not sure that it is enough to deal with write-downs on Italian debt if that country runs into trouble.''
Then there is the question of whether the answer to the euro zone's debt crisis is taking on even more debt, which this plan requires.
The main bailout fund of 440 billion euros known as the European Financial Stability Facility, relies on the sterling credit of Germany and France for its borrowing power. European leaders have promised to use the fund to provide insurance for investors looking to buy risky Italian and Spanish bonds.
In addition, they hope to leverage their contribution by turning it into an insurance program as well as obtaining additional private investments to increase the facility's borrowing capacity to about 1 trillion euros. But, just as with the money Europe hopes to get from private investors to help recapitalize its banks, it is not clear that there is enough appetite from outsiders to take on this risk.
Moreover, although it is a large number, the 1 trillion euro facility would cover only about three years of financing needs for Italy and Spain, while they endeavor to return their weakened economies to health so they no longer need a handout.
Similarly, the initial bailout package for Greece fashioned by European and I.M.F. officials last year was intended to give Greece relief for a three-year period, with the aim that it would then be back on its feet economically.
''Clearly that didn't work,'' noted Mr. Watts of CreditSights. Allowing a mere ''three years to grow the Italian economy back to the point where it can underpin market confidence is probably optimistic.''
Besides being unequal to the scale of the Continent's debt burden, critics add that the financial stability plan is too reliant on France, which may well see its AAA rating taken down a notch because of its own debt and deficit problems. That would make it harder and more expensive for France to make its expected contribution. A downgrade for France would hurt the bailout fund's ability to issue bonds and attract capital from investors.
And, just as with the money Europe hopes to get from private investors to help recapitalize its banks, it also remains unclear if Europe will be able to entice Asian and Middle East investors to put money into investments that would be linked to the bailout fund, and allow it to leverage up its existing assets.
''It's not a solution to the crisis,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. ''It doesn't address the weak links in the banking system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Athens, a man walked past shops closed since last year. One expert called the latest bid to tackle Greece's debt and restore confidence a ''patchwork effort.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KOLESIDIS/REUTERS)
 Greek bank stocks jumped more than 13 percent in early-morning trading Thursday after leaders agreed to a rescue deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YIORGOS KARAHALIS/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); BANK FAILURES (71%); EURO (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) GREECE (93%); ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1295 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economy Picks Up Pace, Averting a Stall

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
Economic growth in the United States picked up in the last quarter in the latest encouraging sign that the recovery, while painfully slow, had not stalled.
Consumers spent more, especially on health care and utilities, and businesses invested more, in software and vehicles among other items, spurring the fastest growth in a year. The nation's total output of goods and services grew at an annual rate of 2.5 percent from July to September, almost double the 1.3 percent rate in the previous quarter, the Commerce Department estimated on Thursday.
That pace is not brisk enough, however, to recover the ground lost in the economic bust, relieve unemployment or even entirely dispel fears of a second recession.
''It ain't brilliant, but at least it's heading in the right direction,'' said Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, a data analysis firm. ''I want to see 4 percent, but given that people were talking about a new recession, I'll take 2.5 or 3.'' 
Investors embraced the domestic report and a broad agreement struck by European leaders to resolve their debt crisis, causing some major stock indexes to soar by 5 and 6 percent in Europe and by around 3 percent in the United States, where the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 12,200.
Still, one did not have to look far to find cautionary signs in the American economic report. Economists do not expect growth to accelerate in the next few quarters to the point that it drives the unemployment rate well below 9 percent. The improvement is simply not enough to be perceptible to anxious American families.
''For most people, they're unable to really make a distinction between a recession and just 2 percent growth, which means the economy is growing so weakly it can't hire enough people to make a dent in unemployment,'' said Bernard Baumohl, the chief economist at the Economic Outlook Group.
A 2.5 percent growth rate may be hard to sustain, noted Kathy Bostjancic, director for macroeconomic analysis at the Conference Board, which tracks consumer and executive sentiment. Real income is declining, housing prices are stalled and, as the National Association of Realtors reported on Thursday, home sales in September were down for the third consecutive month. Personal disposable income, adjusted for inflation, fell 1.7 percent in the third quarter, its biggest drop since the third quarter of 2009.
While income was falling, consumer spending rose at an annual rate of 2.4 percent, more than triple the rate in the second quarter.
So where did the money come from? Consumers put away less in savings, and credit card debt inched upward.
''That is unlikely to continue if the economy grows weakly because Americans are much more conscious about adding on a lot of debt to their balance sheet,'' said Ms. Bostjancic, who added that the negative outlook had begun to spread to businesses.
''C.E.O. confidence is starting to melt away, along with consumer confidence levels, which have always been low,'' she said.
Car sales were strong in July, August and September, and many analysts pointed to those numbers as evidence that consumers were confident enough to take out loans. But the seasonally adjusted number in Thursday's report showed a slight decline in consumer spending on cars, leading economists to speculate that businesses were responsible for the increase in sales.
Most of the increase in consumer spending was instead driven by nondiscretionary expenses like health care, according to an analysis by David A. Rosenberg, chief economist for Gluskin Sheff, a wealth management firm. ''We can understand why consumer confidence has sunk,'' he wrote, ''when spending on essentials such as utilities and medical bills have to be funded by drawing down the personal savings rate.''
Declines in the savings rate as large as the one reflected in the report -- one percentage point, to 4.1 percent of income -- are rare, and more than half the time, they herald recession, Mr. Rosenberg said.
Businesses increased their capital investments at a 17.4 percent annual rate. Business spending has been strong throughout the recession, a hopeful sign because investment in factories, offices, equipment and software often precedes hiring.
Some economists also saw a bright spot in inventories, which grew less than expected in the third quarter. That most likely means there are few excess goods piled up, and businesses may need to replenish their inventories in the fourth quarter, producing stronger growth.
The most skeptical economists simply dismissed the Commerce Department's report. The first estimate of gross domestic product is subject to revisions that can be substantial -- growth in the first quarter of this year, for example, was initially reported to be at a 1.8 percent annual rate. That was later adjusted down to 0.4 percent.
Nouriel Roubini, the chairman and co-founder of Roubini Global Economics, said he expected the third quarter estimate would undergo a similar downward revision. By his calculations, Dr. Roubini said, the growth rate in the quarter was closer to 1 percent.
According to Thursday's preliminary report, the economy showed momentum despite the debt ceiling debate and the downgrade of the country's credit rating in August. The economy began to shake off the shocks that held back growth in the first half of the year, like a jump in gasoline prices and the earthquake in Japan.
But other risks loom, from a slowdown in Europe to the possible expiration of the payroll tax cut. President Obama would like to extend those cuts as part of his $447 billion jobs package, which also includes renewing extended unemployment benefits, paying for infrastructure projects and giving aid to states to prevent layoffs of teachers, police officers and firefighters. (Government spending was flat in the latest quarter, with contraction in local, state and federal nonmilitary spending made up for by an increase in military spending.)
''The better growth performance in the third quarter doesn't mean that the economy can't 'double-dip' back into recession,'' Nigel Gault, an economist with IHS Global Insight, wrote ahead of the report. ''But it suggests that it has more momentum than there seemed to be just a month or two ago, and underscores that the primary recession risks are from external shocks, with Europe the biggest wild card.''
On the domestic front, analysts seemed to be betting that the payroll tax cut would continue, but were divided on whether extended unemployment benefits would be renewed. Those two programs together represent about 1 percent of gross domestic product, though some of that money may go into savings or be spent on imported goods.
Online Correction: October 27, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect name of the company where Nigel Gault works. It is IHS Global Insight, not HIS Global Insight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Energy Kinetics boiler plant in Lebanon, N.J. The American economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the last quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILE WAMSTEKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); HOME PRICES (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1296 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Path Not Taken

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
REYKJAVIK, Iceland
Financial markets are cheering the deal that emerged from Brussels early Thursday morning. Indeed, relative to what could have happened -- an acrimonious failure to agree on anything -- the fact that European leaders agreed on something, however vague the details and however inadequate it may prove, is a positive development.
But it's worth stepping back to look at the larger picture, namely the abject failure of an economic doctrine -- a doctrine that has inflicted huge damage both in Europe and in the United States. 
The doctrine in question amounts to the assertion that, in the aftermath of a financial crisis, banks must be bailed out but the general public must pay the price. So a crisis brought on by deregulation becomes a reason to move even further to the right; a time of mass unemployment, instead of spurring public efforts to create jobs, becomes an era of austerity, in which government spending and social programs are slashed.
This doctrine was sold both with claims that there was no alternative -- that both bailouts and spending cuts were necessary to satisfy financial markets -- and with claims that fiscal austerity would actually create jobs. The idea was that spending cuts would make consumers and businesses more confident. And this confidence would supposedly stimulate private spending, more than offsetting the depressing effects of government cutbacks.
Some economists weren't convinced. One caustic critic referred to claims about the expansionary effects of austerity as amounting to belief in the ''confidence fairy.'' O.K., that was me.
But the doctrine has, nonetheless, been extremely influential. Expansionary austerity, in particular, has been championed both by Republicans in Congress and by the European Central Bank, which last year urged all European governments -- not just those in fiscal distress -- to engage in ''fiscal consolidation.''
And when David Cameron became Britain's prime minster last year, he immediately embarked on a program of spending cuts in the belief that this would actually boost the economy -- a decision that was greeted with fawning praise by many American pundits.
Now, however, the results are in, and the picture isn't pretty. Greece has been pushed by its austerity measures into an ever-deepening slump -- and that slump, not lack of effort on the part of the Greek government, was the reason a classified report to European leaders concluded last week that the existing program there was unworkable. Britain's economy has stalled under the impact of austerity, and confidence from both businesses and consumers has slumped, not soared.
Maybe the most telling thing is what now passes for a success story. A few months ago various pundits began hailing the achievements of Latvia, which in the aftermath of a terrible recession, nonetheless, managed to reduce its budget deficit and convince markets that it was fiscally sound. That was, indeed, impressive, but it came at the cost of 16 percent unemployment and an economy that, while finally growing, is still 18 percent smaller than it was before the crisis.
So bailing out the banks while punishing workers is not, in fact, a recipe for prosperity. But was there any alternative? Well, that's why I'm in Iceland, attending a conference about the country that did something different.
If you've been reading accounts of the financial crisis, or watching film treatments like the excellent ''Inside Job,'' you know that Iceland was supposed to be the ultimate economic disaster story: its runaway bankers saddled the country with huge debts and seemed to leave the nation in a hopeless position.
But a funny thing happened on the way to economic Armageddon: Iceland's very desperation made conventional behavior impossible, freeing the nation to break the rules. Where everyone else bailed out the bankers and made the public pay the price, Iceland let the banks go bust and actually expanded its social safety net. Where everyone else was fixated on trying to placate international investors, Iceland imposed temporary controls on the movement of capital to give itself room to maneuver.
So how's it going? Iceland hasn't avoided major economic damage or a significant drop in living standards. But it has managed to limit both the rise in unemployment and the suffering of the most vulnerable; the social safety net has survived intact, as has the basic decency of its society. ''Things could have been a lot worse'' may not be the most stirring of slogans, but when everyone expected utter disaster, it amounts to a policy triumph.
And there's a lesson here for the rest of us: The suffering that so many of our citizens are facing is unnecessary. If this is a time of incredible pain and a much harsher society, that was a choice. It didn't and doesn't have to be this way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); RECESSION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) ICELAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); BELGIUM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1297 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Disney in TV Deal in Russia

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES; Andrew E. Kramer reported from Moscow.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - The Walt Disney Company on Thursday said it had completed a deal to introduce a nationally broadcast version of the Disney Channel in Russia, one of the world's last big untapped entertainment markets.
Disney, which has aggressively tried to crack Russia for years with only modest success, said it would acquire 49 percent of Seven TV, a broadcast channel that reaches about 40 million households, or more than 75 percent of Russia's measured television audience. Seven TV will remain majority owned by UTH Russia, a fast-growing media company.
It was a small deal in financial terms - about $300 million - but a big step forward for Disney's ambitions in the country. ''We had a toehold, but this gives us an important foothold,''Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said by telephone from Moscow, where he met with Prime MinisterVladimir V. Putin to announce the deal. ''We can now grow more robustly.'' 
The Disney Channel has long been crucial to the company's foreign expansion strategy. When pursuing new markets, Disney typically focuses first on introducing the channel to deliver its brand directly to people's homes. Then it uses that base to sell theme park vacations and merchandise.
But Russia, like China, has proved difficult to enter because of bureaucratic hurdles and restrictions on foreign media. Disney thought it had secured distribution for a broadcast Disney Channel in 2008, when it announced a tentative partnership with Media-One Holdings Limited, a Russian media company. But the government blocked that deal.
Mr. Putin's public appearance with Mr. Iger on Thursday signals that Disney's Seven TV acquisition will go through. It's unclear why the government decided to approve a deal now. But with oil revenue projected to decline over the next decade, the country in general is far more eager to attract foreign investment. Russia is also interested in cultivating its own entertainment industry and could see Disney as an important source of expertise.
Igor Shchegolev, Russia's minister of communications and mass media, recently toured Disney's Pixar Animation headquarters in Northern California. Mr. Putin told Mr. Iger during their meeting in Moscow on Thursday that he hoped the partnership will be ''a positive start up'' in Russia's media industry, according the Interfax news agency.
Disney will be only the second foreign channel to broadcast nationwide in Russia, after MTV, according to TNS Russia, a ratings agency. The country has 20 such nationwide broadcast channels. Disney and UTH will introduce the rebranded channel sometime next year; it will include advertising and feature signature Disney children's shows like ''Mickey Mouse Clubhouse'' as well as programming created in Russia.
Western entertainment companies have recently stepped up efforts to penetrate Russia as their businesses in Europe and the United States have slowed. One indication of how much promise Russia holds can be seen in the growth of ticket sales there for Disney movies. ''Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides'' took in $64 million in Russia over the summer; in 2007 ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' took in $30 million.
Stymied on the broadcast front, Disney in 2010 introduced a cable channel in Russia. It has grown, but its prospects are limited, at least for the moment, by the nascent state of cable TV in Russia. (Disney said it has not decided how the Seven TV deal would affect this small cable channel.)
Still, cable television is growing in popularity. In 2007, 34 percent of Russians living in cities with a population of more than 100,000 people, the standard television metric there, subscribed to cable packages that included at least one such ''thematic'' channel, like Disney's offering, according to TNS Russia. By April of 2011, that number had risen to 60 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Disney Channel gets a foothold in a developing market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY JUNIOR) (B1)
 Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's prime minister, second from left, and Robert A. Iger, the Disney chief, center of the couch at right, met in Moscow to announce the Disney Channel's arrival. (POOL PHOTO BY YANA LAPIKOVA) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); BRANDING (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); APPROVALS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ANIMATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (92%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1298 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Coalmines And Military Keynesians

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Only useless spending need apply. 

 BODY:
Ah, so now we have a new principle of economics: government spending can't create jobs, but cuts in government spending can destroy jobs -- as long as the jobs are in the defense sector
It took months of fighting - the threat of a government shutdown, the graver threat of a default on the national debt, and now a new threat of major, automatic cuts to Medicare and defense programs - but Congress' deficit obsession has finally exposed the rarest of all species: Republican Keynesians.
With just a under a month until the deficit Super Committee must recommend policies that cut the 10 year deficit by $1.2 trillion, members of the Republican party - the same party that's been on the war path for deep spending cuts, and that decries President Obama's "failed stimulus" - are making uncharacteristic arguments against slashing spending. Trim too much, too quickly, they warn, and people will lose their jobs! 
...
"What's more, cutting our military-either by eliminating programs or laying off soldiers-brings grave economic costs," wrote Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA) in a Wall Street Journal op-ed last week. "[I]f the super committee fails to reach an agreement, its automatic cuts would kill upwards of 800,000 active-duty, civilian and industrial American jobs. This would inflate our unemployment rate by a full percentage point, close shipyards and assembly lines, and damage the industrial base that our warfighters need to stay fully supplied and equipped."
One thought here is that a Keynesian is an Austrian whose campaign contributors are about to lose a lucrative contract. But it also harks back to Keynes's point, when he suggested burying bottles full of cash in disused coalmines, so that private enterprise could dig them back up and create jobs in the process:
It is curious how common sense, wriggling for an escape from absurd conclusions, has been apt to reach a preference for 'wasteful' forms of loan expenditure rather than for wasteful forms, which, because they are not wholly wasteful, tend to be judged on strict 'business' principles. For example, unemployment relief financed by loans is more readily accepted than the financing of improvements at a charge below the current rate of interest; whilst the form of digging holes in the ground known as gold-mining, which not only adds nothing whatever to the real wealth of the world but involves the disutility of labour, is the most acceptable of all solutions.
That's it exactly. Propose some kind of public investment, say in green energy, and the right screams "Solyndra! Waste! Fraud!" But propose spending the same amount on weapons that we don't need, and it's all good.
If only we could convince Republicans that solar power or mass transit were complete wastes, but that they would upset some foreign power -- the French, that's it! -- a big stimulus program might sail through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MINES & MINING (85%); COAL MINING (85%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (62%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); SOLYNDRA INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); BUCK MCKEON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1299 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: As Casino Opens Its Doors, Pent-Up Demand Is Released

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER


HIGHLIGHT: Resorts World, the city's first casino, opened its doors next to Aqueduct racetrack in Queens on Friday, not a moment too soon for some people. 

 BODY:
Shortly after 1 p.m., when the doors of New York City's first casino, next to the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, opened to the public, Kim Franklin, 45, from East New York, Brooklyn, brushed past a security guard, extended both arms to ensure that no one behind her in line could pass and broke into a jog as she approached the escalators.
"Oh, my God," she said as the flashing lights of video slot machines came into view. "I don't even know where to go."
The opening came about an hour after a ribbon-cutting ceremony for Resorts World Casino New York City that included company executives and elected officials talking up the economic benefits of the South Ozone Park site - the company says it will generate up to $1.5 million a day for the state - and ended with the release of 100 doves and a trumpet rendition of the "Rocky" theme. Then the crowds that had braved the morning chill were finally allowed inside, where four escalators connected the front doors to the main casino area. Three funneled guests up to the slot machines. Only one allowed them to come back down to exit.
Though the Elvis impersonator near the entrance insisted it "felt like Vegas" when he walked inside, the facility might look out of place on Nevada's famous Strip.
Across the street from its parking lot on Friday, residents gardened in the yards of their single-family homes, many of which were festooned with gnomes or Halloween decorations. Inside the casino, to remain in accordance with state rules that prevent human-operated table games, visitors gambled in the company of a mechanized staff. At the baccarat tables, a long robotic arm dealt the cards. Guests shot craps using two fingers and a touch screen. And a roulette game was supervised by a chesty cyber-woman who leaned forward immodestly as she spun the little white ball on a pixilated wheel.
Some touches are deliberately local. Images of the city skyline splash across the casino's walls. Areas are named for Times Square, Fifth Avenue and Central Park. Even some of the slot machines exhibit regional flair, like "N.Y. Gold," "Wall Street Winner," and a "Sex and the City" themed game.
Danny Falcicchio, 65, from nearby Howard Beach, won a $2,084 jackpot on the Wall Street machine, though a technical glitch delayed his payment for more than 40 minutes.
"I can walk here," he marveled, chuckling as he sipped a drink. "That's dangerous."
Ms. Franklin, who took Friday off from her job as a principal's secretary, harbored no such reservations. As she entered the casino, she received a call from a friend seeking an early review.
"Girl, I am in the casino," Ms. Franklin said, raising her voice with each word. "I was the first one in the building." Within minutes, Ms. Franklin was celebrating a $4 profit at a pirate-themed penny slot machine and contemplating her first drink order.
Near the bar area, replete with a 28-by-18-foot video screen, Richie Santa, the Elvis impersonator, was joined by imitators of Tina Turner and Lady Gaga. The latter said little, wearing a dress of playing cards. The former told passers-by that they were "simply the best," interrupting herself occasionally to ask, of no one in particular, "Tell me something: What's love got to do with it?"
For some of the thousands who showed up, Friday's opening was less a celebration than a scouting visit. Elliott Simmons, 81, from Jamaica, Queens, said he had not yet gambled because he had to "learn the machines" first. He could afford to pace himself, he said, since he planned to visit about once a week.
"I usually go to Atlantic City," Mr. Simmons said, unzipping a black pouch with membership cards from a half-dozen casinos. "But this is beautiful."
He was proof, Mr. Simmons added, that the establishment would translate to "money coming in for the city."
Did it bother him, he was asked, that it might be his money?
"This joint is nice," he said, picking at the wisps of white hair on his chin. "And I win sometimes."

        
Aqueduct Casino Deal is Dead
        
Seeking a Jackpot in a Down Economy
        
A Luxury Train, Bound for Atlantic City
        
Fight Heats Up Over Aqueduct's Future
        
Seven Arrested in Gambling Raids in Flushing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); CARD GAMES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HALLOWEEN (50%); ROBOTICS (50%) Casinos; Gambling; Resorts World; Aqueduct Racetrack; Queens (NYC); Parks and Recreation; Queens

ORGANIZATION: Aqueduct Racetrack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1300 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3186 words

HEADLINE: A Reality Check on Ambitious Climate Targets

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Energy analysts find that even a wartime-style push on known technologies and policies won't meet California's climate goal. 

 BODY:
An interesting commentary published in Nature this week explores what it would take to achieve California's ambitious plan to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. It is worth exploring here because it holds lessons that apply far beyond that state.
The piece, "Piecemeal cuts won't add up to radical reductions," is by Jane C. S. Long, a principal associate director at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the co-leader of a team of energy analysts who spent two years writing "California's Energy Future - The View to 2050," an analysis of what mix of efforts could possibly achieve the required changes in energy and transportation systems.
She writes that a no-holds-barred deployment of known technologies and programs to push energy efficiency to the limit could take the state more than halfway to its goal, but going further would require fundamental leaps in technology.
Long's bottom line?
California can't just spend or deploy its way to an 80-percent reduction or beyond - and neither can anywhere else.
What can only be described as a wartime-scale, crash program might take emissions down 60 percent by 2050, but this is what the state would have to do, she writes:
[I]t would have to replace or retrofit every building to very high efficiency standards. Electricity would have to replace natural gas for home and commercial heating. All buses and trains, virtually all cars, and some trucks would be electric or hybrid. And the state's entire electricity-generation capacity would have to be doubled, while simultaneously being replaced with emissions-free generation. Low-emissions fuels would have to be made from California's waste biomass plus some fuel crops grown on marginal lands without irrigation or fertilizer.
The California report has much more detail on the scope of the challenge and the need for a fundamental strategic review if this greenhouse target (or any similar target elsewhere) is to be taken seriously. Given that California is a best-case scenario* compared to other states (and, of course, countries) far more dependent on coal, Long's piece and the underlying report pose a strong challenge to those calling for a "deploy, deploy, deploy" approach to cutting climate risks.
I sent Long some questions that she answers below. I also sought input from two other researchers who worked on the report, the physics Nobel laureate Burton Richter and Nate Lewis, the California Institute of Technology chemist who directs the Joint Center for Artificial Photosynthesis, as well as David Victor, the author of "Global Warming Gridlock." 
Here's the exchange with Long (which, you should be aware, dives into some important, but technical, issues):
Q.
If the insufficiency of known technologies and policies is this clear for California, what does that say for the United States and industrialized world more generally (not to mention fast-growing rising nations)?
A.
Clearly California is not necessarily a model for the rest of the world. Our energy profile is quite different even from the rest of the U.S. We use little coal, 40% of California energy use is for transportation versus about 25% for the U.S., we have a good record of efficiency gains relative to the rest of the country. This means, for example, that the marginal emission rate for providing power with natural gas to compensate for fluctuations in wind power is positive in California but negative in, say, Ohio.
And fuel is relatively a larger problem in California. But when you go to the extreme of 80% cuts, it may be that the general conclusions are robust: We should be factoring in emission-free, acceptable base load power, we need to worry about load balancing, AND fuel needs will persist and will most likely not be completely met by biomass derived fuels.
What we think is robust is the methodology we developed to add up supply, demand, and emissions. (See ccst.us for the spreadsheet developed by Jeff Greenblatt that does this math...)
As an aside: Two good examples of why our approach is important are 1) analyses that describe how transportation can eliminate emissions and 2) zero-net energy buildings. For transportation, its common to multiply three factors: vehicle miles traveled (VMT), vehicle efficiency, and biofuel usage. So, transportation folks count the biofuels, but then those [compensating for dips in] wind power want to use the same biofuels. Our methodology only allows transportation to count efficiency and in the end, change in driver behavior.
Then the biofuel supply is counted independently and strategically allocated first to those uses that cannot be electrified. For zero net energy buildings, the accounting includes counting the solar on the roof, and assuming the utility will give them power when the sun isn't shining. So this kind of accounting visits the problem of intermittency in an unaccountable way on electricity supply. Our methodology is a strict accounting that doesn't allow these sleights-of-hand that abound in energy system analyses based on the analyst's particular agenda. We would like to see analysts come together and agree on standards that would allow this worldwide accurate assessment.
What I have seen is that the EU countries that have committed also to 80% cuts are beginning to make plans not too dissimilar to our California's Energy Future study. But the difference is they are visiting their intermittency problem on other EU nations through a super grid that doesn't yet exist. Who knows if it adds up across the EU? Will they co-commit to renewables and the grid at the same time? Can the grid really balance all the loads? I don't think they know really. Also, they seem to count on an awful lot of biomass. Biomass is really important, but it seems really unlikely that anyone will have enough if they limit themselves to sustainable amounts of biomass, except perhaps Brazil. And Brazil may likely keep these fuels to themselves whereas everyone thinks to import biofuels from them. So, one answer to your question is that we need to do this math for the whole world to know how big the gap is, but the bet on fuel as the largest technology gap is probably robust, and the need for solving the load-following problem and not having the intermittency problem through base-load power will remain -- assuming you want a reliable supply.
For fast-rising nations, if the entire world is brought to the point of using at least what China uses per capita -- not a terribly high goal -- what we do in the developed world will hardly matter. So, yes this is the most important issue. My guess is that increasing electricity supply in these countries with intermittent renewables might happen if the costs come down, but I wonder what would happen when they make a transition from being happy to have a little energy, to wanting reliable energy? We see what is likely to happen by looking at China and India. They will go to fossil and perhaps nuclear base load. This means that CCS [carbon capture and sequestration] is a critical technology from the perspective of climate and the developing world. (Interestingly, in California, I think CCS will most likely play a larger role in fuel than in electricity, for example by reforming methane to hydrogen and sequestering the resulting CO2) Second would clearly be passively safe, proliferation-resistant nuclear, and energy storage.
The transportation problem in the developing world is really interesting because its not clear that countries like India, for example, should electrify automobiles as a first strategy, whereas it is a very good strategy in the U.S./E.U. The distance they have to go to provide enough electricity at low emissions is huge. If having to run cars on electricity means they add twice as much coal fired electricity without CCS it would be a disaster. The burden of transportation on electricity seems like it should come later for them. The biomass for biofuel problem is likely to be more acute in these countries as well as they have great issues with food. In the same 2050 period that we are looking to more than double energy supply, we are looking to double food supply.
Q.
If the need for breakthroughs is so clear cut, do you foresee any path -- particularly in an era of prolonged economic uncertainty -- to building political and social support for the kind of sustained "energy quest" (my term) that would be required to have a chance of making leaps instead of tweaks?
A.
Interestingly, your term energy "quest" was used by Dan Yergin in his new book, which in 800 pages (!) largely seems to agree with our estimate of what the "quest" is. And I, ironically, have been saying that emission-free fuel which is not based on biomass is the new "prize."
I think the world is looking at Germany. They have taken the "common wisdom" renewables approach, which we think may be really a difficult path, but they are very committed to making it work. It probably can work up to a point, and the question is will they do the ancillary work (i.e., make load balancing work without emissions or leakage) to result in a reliable, truly emission-free electricity system. And the question is how much will it cost them to do it this way? They will still have the fuel problem. They have at least tried to prevent their low-carbon fuel standards from impacting food supply. I think its a good bet there won't be enough biomass for their needs. So watching Germany will be one factor societal learning.
If I knew the answer to your question, though, I would be shouting it from the mountaintops. One idea is that now is the time for philanthropy to kick in big-time. Our government is clearly broken on this issue. Members of the administration have said that they can't even go on the Hill and say the word climate anymore I think there are foundations out there that have been spending a lot of money on trying to get a climate agreement and not getting progress. Perhaps instead of pushing for an agreement which is hard because we really don't how to implement the required changes, they might turn their attention to more strategic elements of the energy system itself so the world has options.
The only other answer I can think of, is to help enable people to be better citizens through simple clarity, accuracy and honesty in describing what the energy system is all about and what is required to change it.
Q.
This piece seems to render "wedge" thinking, even with Rob Socolow's revisions, pretty questionable?
A.
Yes, I agree about the wedge idea. It was a breakthrough in thinking at the time - a "yes we can" moment. But it does not account for how the system works. Does supply meet demand? Do you insure that the needs are met while you are cutting emissions? The wedges also were designed for leveling emissions, not eliminating or nearly eliminating them. It is possible to just take "slices" off to make limited goals. But to nearly eliminate them you have to be strategic mainly because no- or low-emission resources are limited in certain ways and have to be used to their best advantage.
We need a whole-energy-system goal and we need to understand what that goal might look like. Clearly, breakthroughs in technology and changes in the economy and population will make this somewhat of a moving target, but better a moving target than no target. As Yogi Berra put it, "If you don't know where you are going, you might not get there."
Q.
. Finally, this sounds like a solid basis for a big push on climate resilience and adaptation.
A.
Of course. And geo-engineering. It does seem unlikely we will stop emitting by mid-century -- not to mention, beginning to pull CO2 concentrations down to safer levels. There is no stable solution unless and until we stop emitting. We are already seeing climate changing and it seems unlikely to slow down. The three R's of adaptation -- resistance, resilience, retreat -- are very likely to be increasingly in play.
It will be interesting to see if Texas can accept that sea level is rising, decide they have to adapt to that, and continue the cognitive dissonance of denying the cause.
We need to do research on more extreme measures (see Task Force On Climate Remediation Research). The global geo-engineering approaches are extremely hard to control both politically and physically, but in learning about them we might understand our plight and options much more clearly.
I do think there will be increasing emphasis on regional interventions in, for example, the Arctic. Is there anything we can do to slow the ice loss? What can be done to manipulate weather patterns that result in droughts and floods? I think these research questions will become increasingly important.
Here are some thoughts on the political context for these conclusions from David Victor, who is at the University of California, San Diego:
For the most part the political processes that are governing choices in this realm don't work this way. They don't generate ambitious systems thinking and radical changes.
They are fragmented and based on lots of special deals that usually reflect lots of other factors at work (alongside concerns about climate change and other energy worries). For example, in California the politics for new nuclear plants are toxic and imported new nuclear via wire from some other place in the country is probably just about as toxic, not to mention the huge financing challenge for anyone thinking about new nuclear (witness the fits and starts at Southern or Duke where you have utilities and local officials who actually want new nuclear and yet still have a hard time getting the investment done).
In the U.S. the political process has mostly polarized (even in California), which means that "grand bargains" and the other kind of systems thinking that will be needed is really hard to craft and implement. (The root causes of that polarization have nothing do with energy. They are mostly, I gather from talking with people who study these processes, about income inequality and the side effect that has on creating incentives for political polarization. The primary system, TV, campaign finance, etc. don't help, but the root causes are probably economic.)
And all this is ten times as true at the international level, where there is no competent governing authority and what each nation does will depend on how it views its interests (and on the kinds of deals - which tend to be decentralized rather than in the central U.N. style process - it might craft with other countries to coordinate policies).
I think we will address the climate problem through new technology, but crafting the policies needed to [create incentives for] that transition is a lot messier and more fragmented. And when the market for the technology is global, one state (e.g., California) can help push, but it can't set the tune on its own. Barring some breakthroughs - in biofuels, zero-carbon electricity, etc. - that fortuitously arrive (spurred by policy, perhaps-or just manna from heaven), my money is with California abandoning the 80% target.
Burton Richter buttressed Long's views:
The study that Jane led was aimed at seeing if one could meet the 80% reduction target with any combination of technology. It was basically a systems analysis and ignored costs and political acceptability. It had only one constraint, AB32, [the state law] that requires 30%-ish renewables as renewables are defined in California (solar, wind, geothermal, small hydro, ocean systems). The conclusion that Jane announced is that you cannot meet the goal even with California's larger than average big hydro and geothermal.
The reason the goal cannot be met is that with a large amount of highly variable electricity from wind and solar, large-scale load following can only be done with natural gas. We assumed 90% CO2 capture and storage. What this says is that if you insist on large amounts of renewables in your mix, you had better put a lot more into R&D on systems that can supply load following without emissions. Either you need energy storage or 100% CCS.
If an economic analysis was done you would find the situation to be even worse than the technical analysis indicates. Today, the suppliers of variable electricity from wind and solar do not have to firm their supply [guarantee backup power]. That job falls on the system operator who has to buy expensive power to make up for the missing part.
If you read the fine print of the NREL study called Western Wind and Solar Integration, you will find that if you go as high as 35% wind and solar you have to have conventional backup equal to the total capacity of the wind and solar systems.
You can look at data from Texas here. When you need it most (the middle of hot days) wind is available least.
If I were running things, we would be putting lots more money into development of low cost energy storage. We need gigawatt days, not megawatt hours if these renewables are to be a big part of the energy supply and pressurized caves [compressed air storage] are not going to give it to us.
My hope is that the CCST systems study will stimulate some serious thinking, but it is doubtful that will happen. Meanwhile we will spend lots of money on things of limited use while not doing things like substituting gas for coal, and nuclear, than can have a big effect now.
Where I totally agree with David is that the developing world, which will be using by far the largest fraction of energy by the end of the century, will not cripple itself economically with expensive systems only to control emissions. What the industrialized part of the world has to do is to develop the technology that everyone can use in a cost effective manner to run their economies and to limit emissions. Right now to much of the environmental movement only wants things that make them feel good.
Nate Lewis added:
The main report is actually worth reading for its takeaways: no one "favorite" supply technology could reasonably "do it all" and you can't get it all either from even massive energy efficiency.
Fold in everything that you can envision even with aggressive implementation rates (short of a call to war on carbon) and you might get to a 60% reduction (cost not considered whatsoever).
Getting to 80% or beyond will require two main things that we simply don't know how to do today (in addition to doing basically everything that we do know how we do know how to do today):
a) zero emissions load balancing
b) carbon neutral high energy density liquid fuels
Biofuels might possibly do one but there isn't enough of them to do both at once, for example, so pick your poison.
5:51 p.m. | Postscript | 
In a Twitter reaction, Alan Nogee, the former clean-energy program director for the Union of Concerned Scientists, noted that California's lack of coal dependence makes it more a worst case than a best case, because it doesn't have a lot of coal emissions that might be relatively easily displaced.

        
Warming: Pollution or Technology Problem?
        
The Role of Buildings and Cities in Cutting Energy Waste
        
Varied Views of Obama's Environmental Record
        
On Limits and Leaps
        
The Changing (Communication) Climate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (84%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); PHYSICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); CHEMISTRY (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); TRAINS (69%); BIOFUELS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); HVAC SYSTEMS (64%); FERTILIZERS (62%) California; Climate Change; Global Warming; innovation; regulation; Carbon Dioxide; Environment; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; energy; environmental policy

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1301 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Lotsa Links

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What we're reading. 

 BODY:
Great graphic about menhaden (bunker) from the Pew Environmental Group. Really gets the message across: stop overfishing! 
The nationwide listeria outbreak that has killed 25 people was probably caused by unsanitary conditions in the packing shed of the Colorado farm where the melons were grown, federal officials said Wednesday. Six days before the first person fell ill, the farm got a top score- 96 percent - from a firm auditing the plant's sanitation practices. Nice. 
The Institute of Medicine says front-of-package nutrition labels should be simplified and standardized. No news there, but the more people chiming in the better, and IOM is respected and important. 
Human Development Indicators (income, health, and education) in India are steadily rising, but hunger and malnutrition persist. At the same time, there is some intriguing, "culturally sensitive" fast food happening in India, like McDonald's McAloo Tikki Burger - a mash of potatoes and peas deep-fried and served on a bun. Sounds pretty good, but it probably isn't. 
Survey says consumers would rather the U.S. help other countries feed themselves than rely on American farmers to feed the world. 
Here is a good restating of the central tension when it comes to eradicating "food deserts:" top-down or bottom-up? (Sam Kass and Michelle Obama are still confident about eliminating all U.S. "food deserts" by 2017.)
During the recession, spending on processed vegetablesskyrocketed. For some alternatives: 5 cheap home cooking staples from Cathy Erway. 
Boston Globe finds that seafood mislabeling is rampant in Massachusetts. 
Marion Nestle on the sweetener civil war. 
Adam Platt on how food TV is changing the way that we eat.
The U.S. no longer slaughters horses, American horse meat winding up on dinner plates in Europe and Asia.
"Artisan" is the latest word to kick the bucket.

        
Links: The Week in Food
        
Where Awful-Awful Meant Awfully Good
        
Busy Week in Food: Even More Links!
        
A Bunch of Interesting Links
        
On Death and Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD SECURITY (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BACTERIA (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOOD MISLABELING (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); HORSE MEAT (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); HORSES (71%); FOOD LABELING (70%); MALNUTRITION (55%) Food; Food contamination; Food safety; Agriculture and Farming; Fast Food Industry; Food Contamination and Poisoning

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1302 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: One Nation, Innumerate

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Data have a well-known ... 

 BODY:
Via Brian Beutler, Politico has part of George Will's forthcoming attack on Romney:
Republicans may have found their Michael Dukakis, a technocratic Massachusetts governor who takes his bearings from 'data' Has conservatism come so far, surmounting so many obstacles, to settle, at a moment of economic crisis, for THIS?
I sometimes like to say that modern conservatism isn't an attempt to turn the clock back to the Gilded Age, it's an attempt to roll things back to before the Enlightenment, with all that godless talk about numbers and evidence and all that. Doesn't sound that silly now, does it?
Never mind Darwin -- let's go after Newton!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1303 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Golden Gate Capital Closes $3.5 Billion Fund

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Golden Gate Capital, the West Coast private equity firm, has closed its latest fund at $3.5 billion, according to people briefed on the matter. 

 BODY:
7:22 p.m. | Updated 
Golden Gate Capital, the West Coast private equity firm, has closed its latest fund at $3.5 billion, according to people briefed on the matter.
Closed on Oct. 14, the fund is the fourth raised by Golden Gate, which has purchased a wide range of companies over the last 12 months, including California Pizza Kitchen and two software makers, Novell and Lawson Software.
Private equity firms have been racing to raise money, betting on buying opportunities as the economy recovers. These firms are also playing off the eagerness of big institutional investors, like pension funds and endowments, to chase the higher returns that leveraged buyout shops offer.
 Golden Gate took about 60 days to raise the money for its latest fund, the Opportunity Fund, these people said. It is unusual in that it is a "perpetual fund," in which Golden Gate goes to its limited partners every four years or so and asks whether they would like to commit fresh capital to the the fund.
The latest round of capital-raising was oversubscribed, said these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
A spokesman for Golden Gate declined to comment.
Founded in San Francisco in 2000 by David Dominik, a former partner at Bain Capital, and others, Golden Gate looks for deals in a broad range of industries, including software, semiconductors, restaurants, retail and financial services. It has now raised more than $12.5 billion since its inception. 
Unlike many of its bigger private equity counterparts, Golden Gate generally uses little leverage in its transactions.

        
Golden Gate to Buy California Pizza for $470 Million
        
Is California Pizza Kitchen on the Block?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (70%) California Pizza Kitchen; Golden Gate Capital; Financial Services; Private Equity; Retail/Leisure; Technology

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE CAPITAL LP (90%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); NOVELL INC (57%); LAWSON SOFTWARE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Golden Gate Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1304 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
MF Global Fights to Stay Afloat After Two Credit Downgrades | MF Global, the commodities and derivatives brokerage house, was in a fight for its life Thursday night after the firm drew down its main credit line and two major credit ratings agencies cut their ratings on the firm to junk.
MF Global is scrambling to sell some or all of itself. The firm has enough assets to survive for at least the next few days, said a person outside the firm who was briefed on its condition.
The pressure on MF Global is mounting even as a deal over Greece's debt has provided market relief to other American financial institutions. Investors have grown increasingly worried about MF Global's capital position, given its exposure to $6.3 billion in debt from Italy, Spain, Belgium, Ireland and Portugal.
DealBook 
U.S. Inquiry Grows Over Olympus Payout | Federal authorities are intensifying an investigation into the large fees that the Japanese company Olympus paid to an obscure American brokerage firm. The Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators have begun their own inquiries into the $687 million payout, according to people briefed on the inquiries.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation opened the case only two weeks ago, but the inquiry has grown to touch nearly every corner of the federal law enforcement arsenal. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan have jumped on the case, while the S.E.C. has begun an examination of a now-defunct brokerage firm, Axes America.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
A White-Collar Prison Primer | Find yourself in white-collar prison? Bloomberg BusinessWeek offers a handy guide, with advice on where to eat, when to wash and how to fraternize with the other inmates.
BUSINESSWEEK
Psychic Investor Sees Your Futures | Prescient investors are sometimes referred to as oracles, but Jesse Bravo, an investment manager at EKN Financial, actually claims to be one. Mr. Bravo leads a weekly workshop for aspiring psychics called "Seance in the City," The Wall Street Journal reports. But despite the market advantages a third eye could bring, Mr. Bravo said he doesn't use his soothsaying talents at work. "The second you mix them up, you open a Pandora's box, and I don't know the price of that," he said.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Hewlett-Packard to Keep Its PC Business | The decision comes barely a month after Meg Whitman took over as chief executive, concluding a strategic review begun by her predecessor.
Bits Blog 
Chinese Carmakers Agree to Buy Saab, Pulling It Back From the Brink | The two Chinese companies agreed to pay 100 million euros, or $140 million, for the struggling Swedish automaker just hours before it faced court action that could have led to its liquidation, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Disney in TV Deal in Russia | The Walt Disney Company said it would acquire 49 percent of Seven TV in a deal to introduce a nationally broadcast version of the Disney Channel in Russia, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Warner Said to Near Deal for EMI's Record Collection | The Warner Music Group is nearing a deal to buy EMI Group's recorded music division, and could pay $1 billion to $1.5 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Yahoo Prospective Buyers Said to Hit Snag | Many of the firms interested in taking over Yahoo have not yet looked at some of the company's financial information - because doing so would involve a confidentiality agreement that would restrict their ability to team up with other interested buyers, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Law Firm Changed Teams in Takeover | The law firm Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz switched sides in United Technologies' takeover of the Goodrich Corporation, dropping Goodrich to instead advise the buyer, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Lazard and Evercore Log Gains Despite a Slowdown in Deals | Lazard reported that revenue from advising on mergers and acquisitions increased by 24 percent, and Evercore said its investment banking revenue rose 38 percent.
DealBook 
Bankers Blinked, and Europe Got a Debt Plan | Negotiations in Europe over how to stem the continent's sovereign debt crisis reached an impasse early Thursday morning, as banks refused to accept political leaders' proposal for a 50 percent reduction in the value of Greek bonds, The New York Times reports.
But a deal finally came after Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called the bankers' bluff, suggesting she would risk a potentially disastrous default, The Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
European Plan Comes With Asterisks | For Europe's sovereign debt plan, the devil is in the details. Only about 200 billion euros of Greece's 340 billion euros in debt would fall under the plan to reduce the value of bonds by 50 percent, The New York Times reports. What's more, the write-off is technically voluntary.
"It's certainly hard to see this as the bazooka that the market has been calling for," David Watts, senior European strategist for CreditSights, told The Times. "There are very real risks that this will prove to be just another divot in the road." 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Customers Move Money From MF Global | Some hedge funds say they are taking their money out of MF Global, and some brokers at rival firms say they are signing up new customers who have left the beleaguered brokerage firm, Reuters reports. 
REUTERS
MF Global Said to Speak With Barclays | MF Global contacted Barclays Capital to assess the company's interest in a potential deal, but odds of such a deal happening were described as "low," The New York Post reports.
NEW YORK POST
Where Bank of America's Rivals Fear to Tread | Bank of America raised widespread consternation when it began to charge customers to use debit cards, even drawing criticism from President Obama.
And now its competitors - JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and other banks - have decided not to follow Bank of America's lead, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fees Are Top Repellent of Customers | In a new study, the working poor say that the main reason they close bank accounts is the "hidden or unexpected" fees, The New York Times Bucks blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
JPMorgan Gets Analyst Love | Analysts like JPMorgan Chase stock more than Apple shares, even after the bank has seen its market value fall amid concerns about the global economy, Bloomberg News reports.
The bank, the country's biggest, "shouldn't be beaten up," Jeff Harte, an analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners, told Bloomberg, explaining that during the financial crisis, JPMorgan "capitalized on others' weakness."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Golden Gate Capital Closes $3.5 Billion Fund | Golden Gate Capital, the West Coast private equity firm, has closed its latest fund at $3.5 billion, according to people briefed on the matter.
DealBook 
Blackstone in Deal for Commercial Loans | The Blackstone Group and Wells Fargo have agreed to buy $600 million in American commercial property loans from Allied Irish Banks, paying about 15 to 20 percent less than the loans' face value, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS
Samsung Procurement Deal Signed | A group led by the InterPark Corporation has finalized a deal to buy iMarketKorea, the procurement arm of the Samsung Group, for $378.4 million, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Cerberus Closes on Hotel Deal | Innkeepers USA Trust closed on a $1 billion deal to sell hotels to Cerberus Capital Management and Chatham Lodging Trust - and also managed to emerge from bankruptcy, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Australian Fund Seeks $1 Billion From Goldman | Basis Yield Alpha Fund, an Australian hedge fund, has filed a new lawsuit against Goldman Sachs after an earlier suit was dismissed, this time seeking $1 billion in damages and accusing the bank of peddling an investment that it expected would fall in value, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
SAC Capital to Set Up Shop in Japan | SAC Capital Advisors, a hedge fund that has come under government scrutiny for its unusually prescient trades, plans to open an office in Tokyo next year, citing opportunities in Japan, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Chanos Predicts Chinese Slowdown | As he bets against Chinese banking stocks, the hedge fund manager Jim Chanos said he sees signs that China's property market may be slowing, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Groupon Founders Get Extra Votes | Investors who buy Groupon shares at its initial offering will get one vote per share in deciding corporate matters. But the company's three founders will retain a bit more power - with 150 votes per share, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Exchanges Duel for Web Offerings | NYSE Euronext, which operates the New York Stock Exchange, and Nasdaq OMX Group are competing for new Internet I.P.O.'s, with potentially large fees to be had, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Credit Reporting Firm to Go Public | TransUnion, a credit reporting company, will go public rather than be sold, Crain's Chicago Business reports. The company said in July it planned to raise $325 million in an offering, but its owner also explored a sale as the I.P.O. market stalled.
CRAIN'S CHICAGO BUSINESS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Angels in Training Choose Company | A group of angel investors-in-training, with the Pipeline Fund Fellowship, chose to invest in PhilanTech, which sells a tool for nonprofit groups to manage grants, The New York Times You're the Boss blog reports. The company, founded in 2004 by Dahna Goldstein, is set to receive a total of $105,000.
NEW YORK TIMES
Teaching Start-Up Scores $2.5 Million | Codecademy, a start-up that teaches programming skills for free, raised $2.5 million in a round of financing, The New York Times Bits blog reports. 
NEW YORK TIMES
Networking Company Gets $1.5 Million | Datahug, a start-up that helps businesses build relationships with clients, got $1.5 million in a round of financing that included the angel investor Ron Conway, TechCrunch reports.
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
A Litigator Known as Columbo With a Law Degree | During his 40-year career, Gary P. Naftalis has defended embattled executives, troubled multibillion-dollar banks and disco owners. Now he defends Rajat K. Gupta.
DealBook 
Agency Said to Cower Before Watchdog | H. David Kotz has developed quite a reputation in the Securities and Exchange Commission, where he is the inspector general. Mr. Kotz, whose inquiries into the agency are seen as unusually zealous, has caused employees to rely on private e-mail accounts and cell phones, Bloomberg News reports. 
"For those who may be unaware of what is going on at the S.E.C., there is a reign of terror in effect," a former S.E.C. chairman, Harvey L. Pitt, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
In India, Fearing the Fallout of Gupta's Arrest | Some Indian business leaders fear that the arrest of Rajat K. Gupta, on charges of leaking nonpublic information to a hedge fund, could reflect badly on Indian executives generally, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Jail Time for TARP Fraud Plan | Two former executives of the shuttered Orion Bank, and one former borrower with the bank, were fined and sentenced to prison for a plan to wring millions of dollars from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, American Banker reports.
AMERICAN BANKER
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); MERGERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); GREECE (57%); SPAIN (56%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1305 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Toys 'R' Us Gets Nostalgic for Christmas

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Toys "R" Us is bringing back two commercials from the 1980s as part of its plans for the coming holiday season. 

 BODY:
Each Christmas shopping season, toy makers and retailers like to bring back vintage playthings, the better to appeal to parents - and grandparents - whose nostalgia for their own childhoods informs their buying decisions. For Christmas 2011, Toys "R" Us is bringing back vintage advertising.
Two commercials from the 1980s will return to television as part of the Toys "R" Us plans for the coming holiday season. Both commercials feature the brand character Geoffrey the Giraffe and one of them includes the familiar jingle written by the advertising executive Linda Kaplan Thaler that begins, "I don't wanna grow up, I'm a Toys 'R' Us kid."
The 2011 campaign is not entirely nostalgic. Much of it is rooted in contemporary products and selling tactics; for instance, on Sunday, Toys "R" Us will insert into Sunday newspapers the Christmas catalog that it calls The Great Big Toys "R" Us Book.

The return of the commercials speaks to "the generations of kids who grew up with the Toys 'R' Us brand," said Greg Ahearn, United States chief marketing officer for Toys "R" Us.
The spots are in "the exact state" they were in when they ran in the '80s, he added, except for a line being superimposed on screen at the end of each commercial that declares Toys "R" Us is "still the world's greatest toy store."
Some toys in the nostalgic spots are no longer being made or sold at Toys "R" Us.
"There's old toys in old toy commercials," Mr. Ahearn said dryly, adding that the return of the spots was "more about the emotion" than about selling specific products.
Although executives at Toys "R" Us "don't comment on the economy," Mr. Ahearn said, they are "optimistic" about results for Christmas 2011.
"Christmas always comes; Christmas is always there," he added.
And although "we don't say toys are recession-proof," Mr. Ahearn said, "one of the last things parents will spend less on is gifts and toys for children."
On the contemporary front, plans include, in addition to the catalogs, commercials that promote the current top-selling toys as well as toys that are being sold exclusively at Toys "R" Us.
Also on the modern side of the ledger is the Toys "R" Us presence in social media on Facebook and YouTube.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (78%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%) toys "r" us; Advertising and Marketing; Christmas; Toys; Toys 'R' Us Inc; United States; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (90%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Toys 'R' Us Inc

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (90%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1306 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Final Exam for Heavy-Duty Hybrids

BYLINE: TUDOR VAN HAMPTON


HIGHLIGHT: Hybrid bulldozer and terrain excavators will be monitored next year by academics and the California Air Resources Board to see if they offer significantly lowered carbon emissions. 

 BODY:
Hybrid technology is working its way off road, and two heavy-duty earth movers, a bulldozer and tracked excavator, are preparing for large-scale emissions tests in California.
Heavy-duty diesel hybrids save around 25 percent in fuel over their conventional counterparts, manufacturers say. Put another way, a hybrid excavator weighing 20 tons burns 1,500 fewer gallons of diesel a year than a nonhybrid machine of the same size, translating to roughly the same carbon savings as 14 Toyota Priuses. This, according to the Komatsu America Corporation, which builds one of the models that the California Air Resources Board intends to study next year.
The $2 million project, conducted at the University of California, Riverside, aims to test six diesel-electric vehicles. Half will consist of the Caterpillar D7E, a hybrid bulldozer built in East Peoria, Ill.; the other three are Komatsu HB215LC-1 models, hybrid excavators made in Osaka, Japan.
For the tests, scientists will wire up the machines with portable air monitors and run the rigs through simulated work environments, like rock quarries and landfills. Unlike cars and trucks, these vehicles operate under a wide range of conditions, making this sort of testing difficult.
"If you don't get the application right, you are off," said Prof. Kent Johnson, an assistant research engineer at the school and the project's principal investigator, in a telephone interview. "Heavy-duty construction has probably the most diverse applications I've ever seen."
The Environmental Protection Agency regulates off-road diesels for air pollution but not fuel economy or greenhouse gases. However, California has a law requiring the state to reduce overall carbon emissions by 30 percent by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050.
As such, California's air regulators want to know how well industrial hybrids cut carbon emissions, and Mr. Johnson specializes in such unusual requests. He recently crunched numbers for an episode of "Mythbusters," where he evaluated the relative pollution of cars and motorcycles as they drove down the road.
Testing on-road vehicles takes about a week, Mr. Johnson noted, but gathering data from the machines would take about a month. "We're planning on collecting a month's worth of data to capture 20 minutes of testing," he said.
Both machines are different kinds of hybrids. Introduced in 2009, Caterpillar's D7E employs a 235-horsepower diesel engine that powers an electric generator and traction motors. It does not store energy like a traditional hybrid, though its flywheel does capture some regenerative braking when the tracks change direction.
The Komatsu HB215LC-1, which became available in North America earlier this year, uses a 139-horsepower diesel to run an electric generator. It sends power to an ultracapacitor, which delivers quick bursts of energy to an electric swing motor. When the machine swivels between digging and unloading, the motor recharges the ultracapacitor.
Hybrid technology is migrating off road in part because electric motors operate more efficiently than hydraulics, which power most heavy machinery today.
"With electricity, you lose about 10 percent to 15 percent of the horsepower that's coming out of the engine," said Frank Manfredi, a heavy-equipment analyst in Mundelein, Ill. "If you use hydraulics, you are losing about 35 percent."
For this reason, giant diesels like mining trucks and locomotives have run on hybrid power for decades. Recent diesel regulations, though, have pushed off-road manufacturers to adopt hybrids for smaller machines.
"You can really control what's going out of the stack much more closely and get the same amount of work done with a lot less fuel," Mr. Manfredi explained.
The study also is financing an incentive program where people can buy hybrid machinery at a reduced cost. The resources board is offering $75,000 for the bulldozer and $28,500 for the excavator, or about half the incremental cost to buy the machines. Both cost about 20 percent more than their nonhybrid counterparts.

        
Wheelies: The High-Occupancy Edition
        
'Retired' Bob Lutz Adds Via Motors to His Brand Advisory Portfolio
        
Honda Recalls 2006 CR-V for Fire Hazard and 2011 CR-Z to Fix Faulty Hybrid Drive Software
        
With HX1, Peugeot Adds a Plug-In to Its Diesel-Hybrid Program
        
Wheelies: The Double-Charged Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DIESEL ENGINE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (88%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (69%); LANDFILLS (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (52%) California Air Resources Board; caterpillar; emissions; hybrids; komatsu; off-road; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Caterpillar Inc; Environmental Protection Agency; University of California, Riverside; California; Caterpillar Inc|CAT|NYSE; Environment; Industry News

COMPANY: KOMATSU AMERICA CORP (71%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) California Air Resources Board; Caterpillar Inc; Environmental Protection Agency; University of California, Riverside

TICKER: Caterpillar Inc; CAT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1307 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: #OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 42

BYLINE: JILLIAN DUNHAM


HIGHLIGHT: How the protesters are planning to deal with forecast of snow; what Google has found out about the relative interest in Occupy Wall Street and the Tea Party movement; the New York Civil Liberties Union sets up a table in Zuccotti Park; and more. 

 BODY:
With snow in the forecast and Zuccotti Park newly protesters are stocking up on Mylar sleeping bags and bike generators. [City Room, Dawn Hoag via Twitter, Young Manhattanite]
Looking at search trends, Google found that peak interest in Occupy Wall Street was slightly higher than it is for Tea Party news, but that coverage of the two movements was equal in volume. [Google Politics and Elections Blog]
The police said parts of Zuccotti Park had become dangerous at night, and the president of the sergeants union any protester who assaulted a union officer. [Daily News]
A Fox News reporter said a protester in the park threatened to stab him in the throat with a pen on Friday morning. [Fox News] 
The New York Civil Liberties Union headed down to Zuccotti Park Friday to set up a table for legal advice. [NYCLU]
A freelance Web producer in Brooklyn questioned her dismissal from a public radio news program after she pitched a story about her involvement in the Occupy Wall Street protests, but no news organization's integrity rules could stop Brian Williams from slow-jamming the protests with Jimmy Fallon. [Gawker]
One percenter Peter Schiff and others tried to defend capitalism to Zuccotti Park. [Washington Post]
Bloomberg BusinessWeek profiled a leader of the leaderless movement, David Graeber. [BusinessWeek]
CUNY students and faculty will march from Union Square to Zuccotti on Saturday afternoon to protest tuition increases. [CUNY on the March]
Occupy Wall Street protesters will join community activists in southeast Queens on Saturday to march and symbolically reclaim foreclosed houses there. [New York Communities for Change]
At City Hall, protesters will rally and march with civil rights activists and watch the documentary "Sing Your Song," followed by a discussion with its subject, Harry Belafonte. [Occupy Wall St.]
On Sunday, POPS Art Project will take over a privately owned public space in Midtown to create and display art related to the financial crisis. [POPS Art Project]

        
#OccupyWallSt Roundup, Day 45
        
The Week in Pictures for Oct. 28
        
Occupy Wall Street Struggles to Make 'the 99%' Look Like Everybody
        
Fire Inspectors Remove Generators and Gasoline at Zuccotti Park
        
Playing the Occupation for Laughs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TRENDS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); RIOTS (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); TUITION FEES (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Occupy Wall Street; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Zuccotti Park (NYC); #OccupyWallSt Roundup

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Zuccotti Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1308 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Reads and Reactions

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: In this edition: Herman Cain and overly confident punditry, some crowded estimates and two more endorsed ideas about newspaper endorsements. 

 BODY:
Reactions
Matt Glassman, a researcher at the Congressional Research Service, saw hypocrisy in "Herman Cain and the Hubris of Experts," which argued that iron-clad predictions by political pundits often contain too much iron. Mr. Glassman wrote:
The real problem is that Nate seems to more or less agree with the people who think Cain has no chance. He concedes that Cain's chances might be "slim" and then suggests that "slim" might mean slightly less than 2 percent. In effect, Nate is doing exactly what he claims the analysts shouldn't be doing: disregarding the polling numbers and putting the vast preponderance of the explanatory weight on the fundamentals, or their intuition.
Hans Noel of the Monkey Cage also disagreed with the FiveThirtyEight post. So too did Jonathan Bernstein at A Plain Blog About Politics.

Razib Khan, at Discover Magazine, in siding with Nate, proferred some interesting thoughts. Speaking about sports and politics, Mr. Khan wrote, "Despite the long history of minimal value-add on the part of pundits, they persist in both domains. Why? I think it's pretty obviously a cognitive bias toward storytelling. The key here is to change the attitude of the pundit class. The populace will always have a preference for stories with plausible and clean conclusions over radical uncertainty."
Joe Weisenthal, writing for Business Insider, saw something similar in the world of finance. "There's a serious mismatch between what real, actual data is saying, and the stories that everyone insists on telling over and over again: that Cain is a flash in the pan, and should just be ignored," Mr. Weisenthal wrote. "You see this in markets all the time. People lock onto some 'story' about what's driving the market, and then no amount of counter-data will shake them off their belief."
Robert Stacy McCain of The American Spectator, in an article on the topsy-turvy Cain campaign, summed up the dilemma in assessing Mr. Cain's chances thus: "Cain's success represents a journey into uncharted political waters, like an ancient explorer sailing off toward the part of the map where the legend reads, 'Here Be Dragons.' "
And Eric Black, at MinnPost.com, wrote, "I've pretty much given up on predicting the future and concentrated on something I know how to do: predicting the past."
Almost two weeks ago,FiveThirtyEight took a crackat estimating the turnout for Occupy Wall Street's largest single day of protests (Oct. 15), then compared those numbers with the Tea Party protests on April 15, 2009. Armin Rosen of The Atlantic wrote a very interesting article comparing the Occupy Wall Street protests not with the Tea Party rallies, but with the protests against the Iraq war in 2007. Mr. Rosen points out that despite having far fewer participants, Occupy Wall Street has succeeded in many ways those peace protests did not.
The Daily Beast took FiveThirtyEight's Occupy estimates, combined them with the turnout for those April 15 Tea Party demonstrations, and came up with "America's 10 Angriest Cities." It's a slide show, so to save you the trouble of clicking through it all, the top three cities are: 3. Seattle, 2. Portland, Ore., and 1. Denver.
In fact, cities 7 through 1 on that Daily Beast list were all out West, which jibed with FiveThirtyEight's observation that -- on a per capita basis -- the Occupy protests, by themselves, were best represented in the Western Census Bureau Region.
Finally, our comment-of-the-half-month is going to be split this time between Barry Hollander of Athens, Ga., and Will from Houston.
Mr. Hollander and Will earned this award for their theories regarding "Political Newspaper Endorsements: History and Outcome" (theories I have offered in the original article). Explaining the Republican-to-Democratic shift in editorial page preferences, Will wrote: "Newspapers are disappearing. Only papers in huge cities with huge circulations have survived the rise of the Internet. Most huge cities tend to be heavily Democratic."
And Mr. Hollander, considering the influence editorial endorsements might have on elections, wrote: "Presidential-level newspaper endorsements have a negligible effect on the vote. You're more likely to see such endorsements have an impact at the local level -- or statewide, on obscure propositions/constitutional amendments."
Reads
For another Occupy Wall Street-Tea Party comparison, check out Google's Politics and Elections Blog, which dissected Google searches relating to the two protests.
Suzy Khimm of Wonkblog at The Washington Post looked at how businesses are pouring their profits into investments, not new employeess.
And lastly, The Economist took the temperature of climate change science.

        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads and Reactions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (62%); IRAQ WAR (60%) herman cain; Reads & Reactions; Politics

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011



1309 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Income and the Top 1 Percent

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: 6 Q's About the News | When, before 2007, did the top 1 percent of American earners last earn over 23 percent of the nation's income? 

 BODY:
WHEN, before 2007, according to this graphic, did the top 1 percent of American earners last earn over 23 percent of the nation's income?
WHO released a recent report that is the source of this information?
HOW has government policy become "less redistributive since the late 1970s, doing less to reduce the concentration of income"?
HOW much did average inflation-adjusted after-tax income grow by for the 1 percent of the population with the highest income from 1979 to 2007?
HOW much of a rise in average real after-tax household income did the poorest fifth of the population see during the same time?
WHAT did the report cite as factors contributing to the rapid growth of income at the top?
WHY is this report "likely to figure prominently in the escalating political fight over how to revive the economy, create jobs and lower the federal debt"?
WHERE in any day's edition of The New York Times might you find other articles about the economy?

        
A 'Lost Decade' for Americans
        
Debt Ceiling Discussions
        
Test Yourself | Math, June 27, 2011
        
Good News About the U.S. Economy?
        
A Tale of One City: Examining Urban Decay and Renewal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); DEBT CEILING (67%); JOB CREATION (52%) Economics (Des);; economy; financial literacy; Occupy Wall Street; U.S. economy; 6 Q's About the News

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011



1310 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Long-Awaited Climate Satellite Lifts Off

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The first in a new generation of satellites will provide scientists with crucial data for charting climate change and warning of weather catastrophes. 

 BODY:
Five years after its original launch date, a new observation satellite lifted off on Friday in California with a new generation of observation tools critical to weather forecasters and climate scientists alike.
At 5:48 a.m., scattered clapping and cheers rippled through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Satellite Operations Facility in Suitland, Md., as agency officials and staff watched the launch of NASA's first N.P.O.E.S.S. Preparatory Program satellite at Vandenberg Air Force Base on a bank of screens. (The cumbersome initials stand for National Polar-Orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System, but the program is generally known as N.P.P). 
The satellite, a joint effort between NASA and NOAA, will be overseen at the latter agency's Maryland hub, which operates 17 satellites altogether.
The satellite is the first in the Joint Polar Satellite System generation of orbiters, which will deploy the most up-to-date instruments available to improve weather predictions.

While the launch is cause for celebration by scientists, the program is hardly in the clear. Many of the weather satellites currently in orbit are aging beyond their life expectancies and experiencing technical problems, and scientists and government officials worry that their ability to predict weather and monitor climate patterns could be compromised if they fail before additional satellites in the next generation are launched. 
Right now, that is tentatively set for 2016, but pressure for budget cuts in a struggling economy could results in serious delays.
The National Weather Service points out that without critical data from NOAA satellites, forecasts for the blizzard that paralyzed the East Coast in early 2010 would have under-predicted snowfall by more than 10 inches.
"The three-, five-, seven-day outlook depends very centrally on data like N.P.P. will bring back, so we're particularly pleased to have it up there," said Kathy Sullivan, NOAA's deputy administrator.
The N.P.P. satellite system will also expand the decades-long data record on climate patterns. A continuous data set is considered vital to understanding how the earth's climate is changing over time.
It has been a bumpy road for N.P.P. and the rest of the Joint Polar Satellite System. In 1994, President Bill Clinton issued a directive that that merged NOAA's polar-orbiting satellite system with another meteorological system managed by the Defense Department. At the time, it seemed like a good way to reduce costs and redundancy.
The satellite was originally scheduled to launch in 2006. But more than a decade after Mr. Clinton's directive, the joint system was mired in technical problems and hemorrhaging money before a single satellite had been launched. 
The program was restructured under the Bush administration, with many of its critical instruments cut or delayed. Then the Obama administration split the joint program into its civilian and defense components once more in 2010.

        
Why Are We Going Blind in Space?
        
Polar Ice Loss Is Accelerating, Scientists Say
        
Climate Scientists Face Off With House Panel
        
Climate Scientist Sues Skeptic for Libel
        
Rescuing the Earth's Weather History

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (94%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (92%); WEATHER (92%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); METEOROLOGY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEATHER SENSORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (64%) climate change; climate science; Joint Polar Satellite System; N.P.O.E.S.S.; N.P.P.; NASA; noaa; Satellites; Bush, George W; Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Space; Weather; Commerce Department; Defense Department; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; National Weather Service; Vandenberg Air Force Base (Calif); Breaking News; Politics and Policy; Science; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department; Defense Department; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; National Weather Service

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); BILL CLINTON (66%) Bush, George W; Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Vandenberg Air Force Base (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1311 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: What Does 'Recapitalizing Banks' Actually Mean?

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: An accord to recapitalize European banks raises questions about the measures by which banks' balance sheets are measured, and the public has a right to be skeptical, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
In a recent lead editorial, "Will Mrs. Merkel Wake Up This Time?" The New York Times lectured Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on her and her citizens' duties toward nations that have lived for years beyond their means and now need financial aid, and toward European banks that through their lax and myopic loan policies aided and abetted the living beyond means. 
These banks, the editorial said, need "European-financed recapitalization," which apparently Chancellor Merkel opposes, fearing that German taxpayers would have to contribute directly and heavily to a "bank recapitalization." 
I doubt that German citizens are quite as ignorant as the editorial suggests. One can at least sympathize with their reluctance to run what looks like a giant charity for improvident fellow Europeans. After all, I do not see the rest of America rushing to bail out California or sundry municipalities whose governments lived much beyond their means in years past. And did not President Ford tell his fellow Americans in New York City that he would not support a bailout of the city from its financial straits - an event that The Daily News captured with the memorable headline "Ford to City: Drop Dead"?

Leaving that issue aside, I wish the editorial writers had explicated precisely what form their recommended "recapitalization" of the banks would take. In the agreement hammered out in Brussels on Thursday morning, European leaders "invite" the banks to join in a "voluntary" write-down of 50 percent of the face value of Greek debt owed to them, forcing them to book a loss of the other 50 percent, making recapitalization even more urgent. 
As part of their agreement, European governments therefore will force their banks to "raise new capital," presumably from private investors. If the latter do not show up, then whose money would do the "European recapitalization," and on what terms?
Citizens of any country have reasons to smell a rat when the country's elite speaks to them of "recapitalizing" banks. In this regard, for example, the United States bailout of its troubled banks, and Ireland's bailout of its banks, are hardly reassuring. The Occupy Wall Street movement appears to be fed in part by this suspicion.
Recapitalization is a generic term. It can be done in different ways, some more unseemly than others. My inquiry among a nonrandom sample of educated adults suggests that many people do not actually know exactly what recapitalization means. Can we blame them, given that financial experts speak mainly to one another in opaque jargon, and government shuns transparency in these matters?
To see clearly what is involved, it is helpful to start with a simple accounting identity that describes a business company's financial position, at market values, at any moment in time as "t." It is

 At - Lt = Et 
Here At denotes the total, realistically realizable dollar value of assets to which the firm has legal title; Lt denotes the total dollar value of the company's liabilities, if it paid off all of that debt at time t; and Et denotes the company's net worth or "owners' equity" - all as of the point in time t. 
A business is solvent as long as the realizable value of its assets exceeds its debt (At > Lt). Even such a company, however, may find itself illiquid if it does not have on hand enough cash or liquid assets that can quickly be converted to cash to meet short-term debt coming due within the next month or year. An illiquid but solvent business can easily be helped through a short-term bridge loan secured by other assets or an open credit line at a commercial bank that can be tapped in such cases. For solvent banks the central bank is a short-term lender of last resort.
Prudent executives manage the balance sheet of their enterprises so that, at any time t, the realizable dollar value of the company's assets are enough, under most foreseeable future contingencies, to repay all of the company's debts and, it is to be hoped, leave some positive net worth for the owners. They and their companies' owners get nervous when the leverage ratio, Lt/At, rises north of 50 percent, or when cash earnings do not cover interest due by some multiple.
Unfortunately, the leaders of our and Europe's banking sector either never knew this or, if they did, forgot it when they lapsed into what the economists George Akerlof and Robert Shiller call "animal spirits" in their book of that title, employing a term first used by John Maynard Keynes. The banks' directors, ostensibly elected to advise and supervise these managers, seem to have been caught up in the euphoria, as were the banks' owners.
In that cerebral mode, American bankers calmly let the leverage ratios of the enterprises entrusted to them rise above 95 percent, in spite of the fact that the realizable value of a bank's assets tend to be sensitive to economic conditions. 
These assets consist mainly of the right to cash flows inscribed in financial contracts - Treasury and corporate bonds, short-term commercial loans to businesses. In the United States, the banks' assets also included so-called "structured loans" secured by mortgages (increasingly subprime mortgages) and other derivative securities, including rights to cash flows implied by in bond-insurance contracts (credit default swaps).
European bankers, too, invested in such risky securities - often sold to them by their American colleagues. In addition, they loaded up on loans to governments living way beyond their means (Greece) or loans to real estate developers thriving in a real-estate bubble (Ireland, Spain).
I have described this sorry saga in a tongue-in-cheek after-dinner speech, "Why the French Are to Blame for the Banking Crisis." 
Toward 2007, the statement for At-Lt=Et -- also called the balance sheet - of a typical bank looked like the sketch in Figure 1 below. The growth of the banks' assets side was wholly financed with debt from many sources, much of it very short term.
For a real example, see Figure 2, taken directly from a paper by Tobias Adrian and Hyun Song Shin. That graph shows the composition of the liabilities and equity side of the balance sheet of the British bank Northern Rock, whose failure heralded the banking crisis in Europe. (For similar charts of other European banks, see slides 33, 36, 39 and 42 from a recent presentation by Professor Shin, "Global Banking Glut and Its Consequences."
By mid-2007, news had penetrated all the way to the banks' executive suites that a good many of the structured securities on the asset side of their balance sheets were secured by dodgy mom-and- pop mortgages that had been extended to people unlikely ever to earn enough to be able to make their monthly mortgage payments on time. The market value of these securities began to shrink.
In Europe, on the other hand, it became clear that some governments - especially that of Greece -- would not be able to pay debt service on the sovereign bonds they had sold as investments to European bankers. 
Eventually, then, it dawned on everyone, even bankers, that, realistically, the balance sheets of the typical bank looked more like Figure 3. The banks were not just illiquid, which could easily have been fixed by central banks. Many of the banks were effectively insolvent, if all assets were realistically marked to realizable values.
We can think of the generic term "recapitalizing the banks" simply as "restoring the balance sheets of the banks to financial health." It requires that somehow the banks' debt-to-asset ratio Lt/At be reduced to more prudent levels, which is the same thing as saying that its complement, the equity-to-asset ratio, Et/At, also known as the "capital ratio," provide a robust enough cushion for possible future declines in asset values (Lt/At and Et/At add up to 1, of course). 
In calculating these balance-sheet ratios, not all assets are treated equally. Cash on hand, for example, does not have a risk of declining on dollar value (not to be confused with declining in real value through deflation). There is no need to hold an equity cushion for cash. Similarly, high-grade bonds like United States Treasuries or German government bonds (bunds) face only a low risk of declines in dollar values and, realistically, might require at most a very small equity cushion. On the other hand, dodgy sovereign bonds, derivatives and structured securities - e.g., mortgage-backed securities - may very well decline in value and require a higher equity cushion. In short, the sum of the dollar value of assets (At) used to calculate the balance-sheet ratios is risk adjusted.
As noted earlier, part of the agreement hammered out by European leaders is to force or coax continental banks to increase their equity cushions, i.e., their Et/At ratios. Ideally those new equity funds -- about $150 billion -- are to come from private investors. But with two-thirds of the total needed by banks in Greece, Italy and Spain, private investors may not step up to the plate. Then what?
I know some approaches that would do the trick. My colleagues in Princeton's Bendheim Center for Finance, who specialize in banking and financial markets, know even more of them. I will pursue these approaches in my next post, hoping that some readers will now describe how they would would like the task accomplished.

        
Can the I.M.F. Save the World?
        
Will the U.S. Become the Next Ireland?
        
Why Markets, Not the Treasury, Determine Bank Capital
        
Huntsman's Warning on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
The 4-Trillion-Euro Fantasy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); BONDS (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); WRITERS (65%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (50%) banks; capitalization; Daily Economist; European debt crisis; Greece; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Banking and Financial Institutions; Credit and Debt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Government Bonds; Europe; Today's Economist

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); GREECE (90%); BELGIUM (79%) Europe; Greece

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1312 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Romney Fields Friendly Questions in New Hampshire

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Despite an awkward moment when he said $3.45 a gallon was a "good price" for gas -- a sentiment not shared by the questioner -- Mitt Romney was welcomed at a town hall meeting in Manchester. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Just hours before Gov. Rick Perry of Texas addressed a Republican dinner across town on Friday, Mitt Romney fielded questions from a largely friendly crowd here, offering up his opinion on matters as diverse as the price of gas and the Occupy Wall Street movement.
When a man prefaced a question about drilling in Alaska by explaining, "I paid $3.45 a gallon on my way over here to fill up my car to come see you," Mr. Romney interjected: "Where'd you go for that? That's a good price!"
"Actually, I think it's high," the man replied.
Awkward. But not quite as bad as Barack Obama's arugula moment four years ago. (In fact, according to AAA, the national average for a gallon of gas as of Friday was $3.448, up from $2.808 a year ago).
Mr. Romney received a standing ovation from the largely friendly crowd- savvy enough to offer a knowing chuckle when Mr. Romney mentioned "Massachusetts," shorthand for his time as a Republican governor in a traditionally Democratic state - when he entered the room.
"I was, if you will, playing an away game," Mr. Romney said, referring to his time as governor. "This was not a friendly, if you will, environment."
Casting himself as a political outsider, Mr. Romney - who is making his fourth run for office - said he was prepared to make the tough decisions to turn around the country.
"I don't have a career in politics," Mr. Romney said. "This for me is not the next step in my political career, to run for president. As you know, I was governor for four years, and I pointed out, I didn't inhale."
Mr. Romney also used the forum to reiterate some of his views about the role of government, and tacitly set himself apart from Mr. Perry, who has called Social Security a "Ponzi scheme."
"This is a nation increasingly being run for government, not for the people, and it's time for us, the people, to take our government back," he said. "I want to save Medicare and Social Security, not just for those that are already retired, but for those who someday will be retired."
Asked about the Occupy Wall Street movement occurring in cities across the country, Mr. Romney turned the blame on President Obama.
"If we had 6 percent unemployment, instead of 9.1 percent unemployment, this wouldn't be going on," he said. "So if we had a president who had understood what it took to reboot the American economy and get us back to work, we wouldn't have this problem, or we wouldn't have people protesting, because they'd be working."
Mr. Romney added: "There are some people in that protest effort who are just angry that they can't find work. And that their costs are going up and their income is going down. And I certainly sympathize with those people. I'm sure there are others in the group that have less benevolent sentiments and are intent on just causing difficulty of one kind or another."
Mr. Romney's town hall meeting came on the heels of a busy day in New Hampshire. Mr. Perry had a full day of campaigning here Friday, and he and the Romney camp got into a back-and-forth over comments Mr. Romney made on Thursday in Pittsburgh about climate change. Mr. Perry accused Mr. Romney of shifting his position on the topic.
On the eve of Mr. Perry's visit, The New Hampshire Union Leader broke the news that Norman Major, an eight-term state representative from Plaistow, had switched his support to Mr. Romney from Mr. Perry.
Walking out the door, Mr. Romney was asked perhaps the most timely question of the evening - whom was he rooting for in the evening's World Series game?
"Oh, I'm pulling for the Cardinals," Mr. Romney said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); MEDICARE (61%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; United States Economy; Republican Party; New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (94%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011



1313 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: The Cain Enigma

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO


HIGHLIGHT: For many analysts, the success of Herman Cain defies logic. 

 BODY:
Sometimes life resembles fiction. Other times it resembles "Star Trek."
Do you remember how, when things on the Enterprise got a little emotional, Spock would overload? How he was repeatedly left baffled as his Vulcan devotion to science and logic crumbled in the face of situations and questions that could not be calculated - like, why did Captain Kirk and the lithe alien with the beehive from that planet where everyone sort of looked like Ursula Andress keep looking at each other that way?
This week in American punditry was a little like that, as we sorted through a Vulcan-like hailstorm of numbers, polls, calculations and historical comparisons intended to help us gain a more complete understanding of two important aspects of the present moment: our national mood and the persistent rise of Herman Cain. Perhaps, as some commentators suggested, the two are related.

Midweek, The Times's Jeff Zeleny and Megan Thee-Brenan set the tone with a report containing a load of bleak-sounding figures describing the depth of the national distrust of government, which a Times/CBS News poll indicated was at nearly 90 percent - its highest level ever. Among other numbers, the story noted, "two-thirds of the public said that wealth should be distributed more evenly in the country. Seven in 10 Americans think the policies of Congressional Republicans favor the rich. Two-thirds object to tax cuts for corporations and a similar number prefer increasing income taxes on millionaires. Not only do 89 percent of Americans say they distrust government to do the right thing, but 74 percent say the country is on the wrong track and 84 percent disapprove of Congress - warnings for Democrats and Republicans alike."
We sort of knew that - the disenfranchisement and feeling bad part - didn't we? But watchers of the 2012 presidential race no doubt took note of this passage:
Republican voters remain unenthused about their options to challenge President Obama next year, as the competition intensifies among Mitt Romney, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and other contenders. The uncertainty has provided an opening for Herman Cain, who was viewed more enthusiastically by Republican primary voters than were other Republican candidates.
The Cain question - basically, varying versions of "Can this guy be for real?" - was asked a lot this week. Cain's many public missteps in recent months, and his apparent shortcomings as a candidate, have been well documented, as has his accompanying rise in the polls: national figures show Cain to be the favorite of a quarter of Republican voters, coming in just ahead of Mitt Romney in some polls, and in Ohio, a Quinnipiac poll shows Cain leading the G.O.P. field with 28 percent. Still, Cain's lack of governing experience, his 9-9-9 tax plan, his "joke" about an electrified border fence, his statements on abortion and trading hostages for Guantanamo Bay prisoners, remain part of a calculus that for many just does not add up. 
The Times's Nate Silver was one of those who pored over the facts, but found that they just did not compute. Here he basically throws in the analytical towel, and attempts to explain how Cain seems to be defying, well, logic.
What is an analyst to do when he encounters an outlier like this?
Well, I don't know what he should do. This gets at something of the distinction that the economist Frank H. Knight once made between risk and uncertainty. To boil Mr. Knight's complicated thesis down into a sentence: risk, essentially, is measurable whereas uncertainty is not measurable.
In Mr. Cain's case, I think we are dealing with an instance where there is considerable uncertainty. Not only do I not know how I would go about estimating the likelihood that Mr. Cain will win the Republican nomination - 
But I do know what an analyst should not do: he should not use terms like "never" and "no chance" when applied to Mr. Cain's chances of winning the nomination, as many analysts have.
There is simply no precedent for a candidate like Mr. Cain, one with such strong polling but such weak fundamentals.."
At The Daily Beast, Howard Kurtz was one of several commentators who made the connection between our national distrust of systems and Cain's rising star. In a piece about the Cain campaign's attempt to recover from the candidate's missteps, Kurtz writes:
How can an underfunded candidate who has barely shown up in the early primary states and been relentlessly pounded by the media not be sinking like a stone?
The answer, at least in part, is that many Republican voters don't trust the media, so they discount the stories that essentially say Cain doesn't know what he's talking about. They don't trust the Beltway establishment, so they brush off criticism from the likes of Karl Rove. They don't trust political leaders, so a businessman who hasn't played the game (except for a Georgia race in which he got clobbered) holds a special appeal in this anger-fueled environment.
At the Strata-Sphere, the blogger known as AJStrata also finds Cain to be the candidate of the disaffected majority. Cain, he argues, is "the one person who aligns perfectly with this 90 percent." He writes: 
The more the Political Industrial Complex rejects Cain The Outsider, the more support he will garner because it will be clear to the 90 percent that the one guy government does not want at the helm is the one guy who wants to tame the bureaucratic beast. And who also happens to be the one guy who lives outside the box of bureaucratic thinking.
It was certainly a "guy who lives outside the box of bureaucratic thinking" who put out this ad, featuring Cain's chief of staff Mark Block, touting his boss's merits, then taking a drag on a cigarette. 
Andrew Sullivan takes on the Cain question and ventures to explain him as a reflection of Tea Party politics and the Republicans' "increasing detachment from the reality of governance." Sullivan writes:
Cain is particularly popular among Republican primary voters who identify as being a part of the Tea Party: he captures 32 percent to Romney's 8 percent among this group. Cain also has a wide 15 percentage-point advantage over both Romney and Gingrich among white evangelicals ...
Cain is a function, I think, of a deeper Republican reality. It has become a wing of the entertainment industry, and in that media-industrial complex, the money to be made is immense. You do not make that money or become a star in conservative circles by actually governing, by the process of compromise and negotiation with one's opponents, or by detailed policy knowledge. In the universe where conservatism is defined by Levin and Malkin and Limbaugh and Hannity, you have to be a great polemicist, you have to be partisan above all, you need to be outrageous at times, and you have to appeal to the gut, rather than the brain.
This is an entertainment company based around a religious identity politics and masquerading as a political party. 
Barbara O'Brien a k a Maha at Mahablog also suggested that Cain was existing in an alternative (in this case Rove-free) Republican universe:
Recently Karl Rove did a takedown of Cain on Fox News that was supposed to be devastating. Politico ran a headline about it that said "Karl Rove sticks a fork in Herman Cain." I did a quick survey of rightie blog reaction to this, and I saw not one post or comment that agreed with Rove; most just yelled at him to get off the lawn, so to speak. Rove appears to have no authority at all with the base.
At his Daily Mail blog Don Surber writes that "the idea of an outsider actually winning the presidency is beyond the imagination of political hacks and the punditry." And really, what are we all ruminating over? The whole thing, according to Surber, is pretty simple:
I will explain Herman Cain's showing so far: He's a conservative and this is the conservatives turn for the nominee. Republicans take turns. Many moderates are writing the election off. Conservatives are going for the most conservative candidate they can get away with. Right now, that's Herman Cain, but a month from now, it may not be.
Why is he the best conservative? 1. He fights. 2. He was Tea Party from the beginning. 3. He's positive, optimistic and a success outside of politics. 4. Rick Perry has stumbled. 5. Michele Bachmann stumbled off into la-la-land. 6. Newt Gingrich endorsed Dede Scozzafava (what, you thought conservatives would forgive and forget).
A century ago, newspaperman Peter Dunne coined the phrase "politics ain't beanbag."
But it is as simple. You throw the bag, you land in the hole - or not.
At Outside the Beltway, Doug Mataconis sticks by his contention that the excitement about Cain is overblown:
But what of Herman Cain? Three weeks ago, I expressed doubt that he would have staying power largely because of what he's said in the past and the fact that he didn't appear to be running a serious campaign. Since then, we've seen even more examples of his propensity to make statements about subjects when it's clear that he has no idea what he's talking about, or changing his position to suit his audience on issues like abortion and immigration. His foreign policy positions are atrocious. We've also seen that he raised an anemic amount of money in the third quarter, and apparently used some of it to produce one of the strangest campaign ads we've seen in quite some time. He still appears to be spending most of his time in states that don't have primaries until March or April. He barely has a campaign presence in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, or Florida. I'm not even sure that he's filed to be on the ballot in New Hampshire yet (the deadline is this coming Friday). None of this points to a man who is serious about running for the Presidency, or who is going to be able to capitalize on the lead he has in the polls right now. The conventional wisdom is that Cain will start falling in the polls once the real campaigning for Iowa and New Hampshire begins in November. Could the conventional wisdom be wrong? Yea, it could, but it doesn't seem likely that will happen.
At Slate, John Dickerson makes the argument that the Cain bubble actually might not burst. He writes: "Cain is no longer flavor of the week-he's a regular menu item. He's popular, we know that. And now, after several weeks of attacks, gaffes, and scrutiny, he has shown endurance. Based on the collapse of the Michele Bachmann and Rick Perry campaigns, you might expect Cain's various rough moments would cause a drop in the polls. They haven't. If anything, he's increased in popularity, which shows just how suspicious voters are of the political class and how much they're willing to put up with someone who isn't a member of it."
A nation disgusted with government gravitating toward an outsider? That seems to make sense. 
But analysts beware. Even Spock knew that reason could take us only so far.

POSTSCRIPT
This is the final regular installment of The Thread. In the coming weeks, The Times opinion section will expand its online offerings, including a redesigned global opinion section; new contributing writers; a political opinion blog, Campaign Stops, that will chronicle the 2012 election cycle; and a blog offering political commentary by Andrew Rosenthal, the editorial page editor of The Times. 

        
And the G.O.P. Candidates Are ...
        
Migrants from Sanity
        
Cold Pizza from Herm Cain
        
The Party Spirit on Trial
        
Rick Perry's Unanswered Prayers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); TAX LAW (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ELECTION MONITORING (67%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) Elections 2012; herman cain; Republican Party; Tea Party; Cain, Herman; Presidential Election of 2012; Tea Party Movement; The Thread

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); RICK PERRY (51%) Cain, Herman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1314 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Occupy Protesters Down on Obama, Survey Finds

BYLINE: MARJORIE CONNELLY


HIGHLIGHT: A survey by a professor at Fordham University finds that the protesters are "disgruntled Democrats." 

 BODY:
Zuccotti Park in New York's financial district is decked out with posters and signs for the wide array of politicalviewpoints of the Occupy Wall Street protesters. The six-week-old movement has several Web sites to promote various perspectives. But just who are these protesters? What is their political ideology? Do they have jobs? 
Costas Panagopoulos, a professor of political science at Fordham University, recently conducted a survey of the Occupy Wall Street protesters in New York. 
Dr. Panagopoulos described the protesters as "disgruntled Democrats." Sixty percent of those surveyed said they voted for Barack Obama in 2008, and about three-quarters now disapprove of Mr. Obama's performance as president. A quarter said they were Democrats, but 39 percent said they did not identify with any political party. Eleven percent identified as Socialists, another 11 percent said they were members of the Green Party, 2 percent were Republicans and 12 percent say they identified as something else. 
Questionnaires handed out by Dr. Panagopoulos's team of 15 interviewers throughout the park were completed by 301 adults from Oct. 14 to Oct. 18. "I followed the academic protocols that colleagues of mine adopted in the past to survey demonstrations," he said. 
In the survey, 80 percent described themselves as liberal; half of those said they were extremely liberal. 
Most protesters surveyed had serious misgivings about the federal government: 52 percent said the government in Washington could be trusted to do what was right only some of the time, and another 42 percent said it could never be trusted. Similarly, almost all - 97 percent - disapprove of how Congress is doing its job. 
Three in 10 of the Occupy Wall Street protesters picked unemployment as the most important problem facing the country, by far the top response. Ten percent said health care, followed by the federal deficit and government spending (9 percent) and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq (9 percent). 
Although most elected Democrats have offered only guarded support of the movement, more than two-thirds of those surveyed say the protest is likely to have an effect on the views of Democratic politicians. "They have ambitious expectations of the Democrats," Dr. Panagopoulos said. "And are likely to be disappointed if their optimism is misplaced." Most think the protests are less likely to change the opinions of Republican politicians.
Two-thirds of the survey respondents have attended college, and 25 percent are currently students. Thirty percent have full-time jobs and 18 percent are employed part-time. Forty percent are members of a union household. (Nationally, in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, 58 percent of the general public have attended college and 62 percent are employed, either full-time or part-time.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%) Obama, Barack; Politics and Government; Occupy Wall Street; Financial District (NYC); Zuccotti Park (NYC); Polling

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (83%) Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Financial District (NYC); Zuccotti Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011



1315 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: For Some, New Casino Opens Not a Moment Too Soon

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
Shortly after 1 p.m., when the doors of New York City's first casino, next to the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, opened to the public, Kim Franklin, 45, from East New York, Brooklyn, brushed past a security guard, extended both arms to ensure that no one behind her in line could pass and broke into a jog as she approached the escalators.
''Oh, my God,'' she said as the flashing lights of video slot machines came into view. ''I don't even know where to go.'' 
The opening came about an hour after a ribbon-cutting ceremony for Resorts World Casino New York City that included company executives and elected officials talking up the economic benefits of the South Ozone Park site - the company says it will generate up to $1.5 million a day for the state - and ended with the release of 100 doves and a trumpet rendition of the ''Rocky'' theme. Then the crowds that had braved the morning chill were finally allowed inside, where four escalators connected the front doors to the main casino area. Three funneled guests up to the slot machines. Only one allowed them to come back down to exit.
Though the Elvis impersonator near the entrance insisted it ''felt like Vegas'' when he walked inside, the facility might look out of place on Nevada's famous Strip.
Across the street from its parking lot on Friday, residents gardened in the yards of their single-family homes, many of which were festooned with gnomes or Halloween decorations. Inside the casino, to remain in accordance with state rules that prevent human-operated table games, visitors gambled in the company of a mechanized staff. At the baccarat tables, a long robotic arm dealt the cards. Guests shot craps using two fingers and a touch screen. And a roulette game was supervised by a chesty cyber-woman who leaned forward immodestly as she spun the little white ball on a pixilated wheel.
Some touches are deliberately local. Images of the city skyline splash across the casino's walls. Areas are named for Times Square, Fifth Avenue and Central Park. Even some of the slot machines exhibit regional flair, like ''N.Y. Gold,'' ''Wall Street Winner,'' and a ''Sex and the City'' themed game.
Danny Falcicchio, 65, from nearby Howard Beach, won a $2,084 jackpot on the Wall Street machine, though a technical glitch delayed his payment for more than 40 minutes.
''I can walk here,'' he marveled, chuckling as he sipped a drink. ''That's dangerous.''
Ms. Franklin, who took Friday off from her job as a principal's secretary, harbored no such reservations. As she entered the casino, she received a call from a friend seeking an early review.
''Girl, I am in the casino,'' Ms. Franklin said, raising her voice with each word. ''I was the first one in the building.'' Within minutes, Ms. Franklin was celebrating a $4 profit at a pirate-themed penny slot machine and contemplating her first drink order.
Near the bar area, replete with a 28-by-18-foot video screen, Richie Santa, the Elvis impersonator, was joined by imitators of Tina Turner and Lady Gaga. The latter said little, wearing a dress of playing cards. The former told passers-by that they were ''simply the best,'' interrupting herself occasionally to ask, of no one in particular, ''Tell me something: What's love got to do with it?''
For some of the thousands who showed up, Friday's opening was less a celebration than a scouting visit. Elliott Simmons, 81, from Jamaica, Queens, said he had not yet gambled because he had to ''learn the machines'' first. He could afford to pace himself, he said, since he planned to visit about once a week.
''I usually go to Atlantic City,'' Mr. Simmons said, unzipping a black pouch with membership cards from a half-dozen casinos. ''But this is beautiful.''
He was proof, Mr. Simmons added, that the establishment would translate to ''money coming in for the city.''
Did it bother him, he was asked, that it might be his money?
''This joint is nice,'' he said, picking at the wisps of white hair on his chin. ''And I win sometimes.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Franklin, one of the first guests at the Resorts World casino in South Ozone Park, Queens, on Friday, winning a few dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HALLOWEEN (50%); ROBOTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1316 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Whirlpool Misses Expectations and Will Cut Jobs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Whirlpool said on Friday that it planned to cut 5,000 jobs, about 10 percent of its work force in North America and Europe, because of soft demand and higher costs for materials. 
The company, the world's biggest appliance maker, also on Friday cut its 2011 earnings outlook drastically and reported third-quarter results that missed expectations, hurt by higher costs and a slowdown in emerging markets.
The company, whose brands include Maytag and KitchenAid, has been squeezed by weak American demand since the recession and by rising costs for materials. Because of Whirlpool's size, its performance can signal whether consumers are comfortable spending on big-ticket items.
To offset slowing North American sales, Whirlpool has turned to emerging markets. But the company said Friday that sales had slowed there, too.
The Whirlpool jobs to be cut are mostly in North America and Europe. They include 1,200 salaried positions and the closing of the company's Fort Smith, Ark., plant.
The shutdown of the Fort Smith plant will affect 884 hourly workers and 90 salaried employees. An additional 800 workers were on layoff from the factory and on a recall list.
The company's third-quarter net income more than doubled to $177 million, or $2.27 a share, from $79 million, or $1.02 a share. Revenue rose 2 percent to $4.63 billion.
''Our results were negatively impacted by recessionary demand levels in developed countries, a slowdown in emerging markets and high levels of inflation in material costs,'' said Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool's chief executive.
The company now expects 2011 net income will be $4.75 to $5.25 a share. Its previous guidance was that net income would be at the low end of $7.25 to $8.25 a share.
Shares of Whirlpool fell 14 percent, to close at $51.80.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Whirlpool plant in Clyde, Ohio. Whirlpool said it would cut about 10 percent of its work force in North America and Europe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (91%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: JEFF M FETTIG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT SMITH, AR, USA (69%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1317 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Savings Rate Is Dropping, And Experts Are Puzzled

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
When the recession began, Americans began to save more of their money, prompting predictions that their financial habits might be changing permanently.
But the surge has not been sustained. In September, the nation's savings rate dropped for the third consecutive month, the Commerce Department said Friday. It is now at 3.6 percent of personal disposable income, its lowest level since the month the recession began. 
The latest decline raises the question of whether consumers are returning to their old spendthrift habits or were temporarily relaxing budget restrictions to make long-awaited purchases.
Real personal after-tax income declined in September, just as it did in July and August. Even so, consumers spent more, for an increase of 0.6 percent in September.
The increase in consumer spending was widely embraced as good news, a sign that consumers might be helping to propel the economy forward. Consumers account for roughly two-thirds of economic activity.
Economists warn, though, that increases in spending will be hard to sustain if Americans are doing it by simply putting a little less away every month.
Some of the spending increase was to cover necessities like medical bills and gasoline. Consumers also spent more on furniture and goods like televisions.
Scott Hoyt, an economist at Moody's Analytics who specializes in consumer spending, said there were two competing hypotheses as to why the savings rate had dropped. ''One is that consumers have just decided that they need to spend -- they need to replace the car, the appliance, they want a new wardrobe.'' The other, he said, is that the data, which is often revised months down the road, is simply incorrect.
''There have been several times where we spent a year or more talking about a negative savings rate'' -- meaning consumers spent more than they took in -- ''only to get benchmark revisions to the data,'' Mr. Hoyt said. ''The savings rate's never been negative.''
Mr. Hoyt said he leaned toward the second explanation, in part because more spending was less likely with credit tight and consumer confidence at recession-level lows. But, with appliances and cars aging, there is pent-up demand for replacements.
In the decade leading up to the recession, Americans socked away an average of only 3.1 percent of their income, a much lower rate than in Europe, China, India and Japan.
After the crisis began, Americans raised their savings rate to above 5 percent. It slipped briefly below 4 percent in mid-2009 before climbing again.
Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics, offered a partial explanation for the latest change. With interest rates so low, people who have money are earning lower returns, while people who owe money can service their debts for less. In effect, this has resulted in a transfer of wealth from people who are more likely to save -- say, someone nearing retirement age -- to someone more likely to spend -- say, a young couple with a mortgage and a car loan.
But that would not account for the whole shift from saving to spending, he said. ''Maybe households were desperate and didn't know what else to do,'' he said. ''You can put off some discretionary spending, but there is a level of spending that you have to follow through on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One economist said that with credit still so tight, the data might very well be faulty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1318 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Panetta Joins South Korean Defense Minister in Warning North

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Su-hyun Lee contributed reporting from Seoul.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The United States and South Korea held out the possibility on Friday that the two nations would join in a military response against North Korea if there is another provocation in the region from North Korean leaders.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta and the South Korean defense minister, Kim Kwan-jin, in effect threatened North Korea with some form of a counterattack if it engaged in another belligerent act, like its shelling of a South Korean island last November. 
But Mr. Kim was far more emphatic than Mr. Panetta, and Pentagon officials quickly played down the likelihood of an American military response, although they did not rule it out. A 1953 mutual defense treaty between the United States and South Korea stipulates that either country will come to the defense of the other if attacked by a third party.
The United States and South Korea ''will jointly deter any additional provocations by North Korea,'' Mr. Kim said at the news conference with Mr. Panetta.
For his part, Mr. Panetta said, ''We can provide strong and effective responses to those kinds of provocations if we work together and if we develop the kind of coordinated response that we think is necessary.''
Their statements were in large part meant to support South Korea, which has grown increasingly anxious about North Korean actions. The South Korean public was furious when civilians were killed in the shelling of the island, and although South Korea returned fire, many South Koreans felt there should have been a stronger response.
Mr. Panetta was on his last day of a weeklong trip to Asia that was meant to project American power in the Pacific and reassure allies.
The Pentagon press secretary, George Little, told reporters after the news conference that the United States had ''a full spectrum'' of potential responses to North Korea, which he said included more joint military exercises between the United States and South Korea, the repositioning of American forces in the region and ''other nonkinetic responses.''
The statements from Mr. Panetta and Mr. Kim were also a clear effort to deter the North from future provocations. Mr. Kim said he expected future belligerence, as do American military officials.
At the news conference, Mr. Panetta and Mr. Kim reiterated longstanding demands that North Korea abandon its nuclear weapons program and in a joint communique called it both a ''serious'' and ''grave'' threat. They pledged to complete by the end of this year an American-South Korean ''counterprovocation'' plan, a military road map for how the two countries would jointly respond to a North Korean action.
Mr. Panetta has taken a tough line against the North Korean government during his visit to Seoul. On Thursday, he cast doubt on both exploratory talks and suspended six-nation negotiations aimed at persuading North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program.
Although North Korea has been more accommodating recently, including participating in the exploratory talks, American military officials and a number of Obama administration officials believe the North is doing so only to extract food, economic assistance and other aid from nations involved in the talks.
Mr. Panetta's tough talk followed up on warnings delivered earlier this year by Robert M. Gates, who said when he was the defense secretary that North Korea was within five years of being able to strike the continental United States with an intercontinental ballistic missile.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DISARMAMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1319 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: West Sees Libya as Ripe at Last for Businesses

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Adam Nossiter and David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting from Tripoli, Libya.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The guns in Libya have barely quieted, and NATO's military assistance to the rebellion that toppled Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi will not end officially until Monday. But a new invasion force is already plotting its own landing on the shores of Tripoli.
Western security, construction and infrastructure companies that see profit-making opportunities receding in Iraq and Afghanistan have turned their sights on Libya, now free of four decades of dictatorship. Entrepreneurs are abuzz about the business potential of a country with huge needs and the oil to pay for them, plus the competitive advantage of Libyan gratitude toward the United States and its NATO partners.
A week before Colonel Qaddafi's death on Oct. 20, a delegation from 80 French companies arrived in Tripoli to meet officials of the Transitional National Council, the interim government. Last week, the new British defense minister, Philip Hammond, urged British companies to ''pack their suitcases'' and head to Tripoli.
When Colonel Qaddafi's body was still on public display, a British venture, Trango Special Projects, pitched its support services to companies looking to cash in. ''Whilst speculation continues regarding Qaddafi's killing,'' Trango said on its Web site, ''are you and your business ready to return to Libya?'' 
The company offered rooms at its Tripoli villa and transport ''by our discreet mixed British and Libyan security team.'' Its discretion does not come cheaply. The price for a 10-minute ride from the airport, for which the ordinary cab fare is about $5, is listed at 500 British pounds, or about $800.
''There is a gold rush of sorts taking place right now,'' said David Hamod, president and chief executive officer of the National U.S.-Arab Chamber of Commerce. ''And the Europeans and Asians are way ahead of us. I'm getting calls daily from members of the business community in Libya. They say, 'Come back, we don't want the Americans to lose out.' ''
Yet there is hesitancy on both sides, and so far the talk greatly exceeds the action. The Transitional National Council, hoping to avoid any echo of the rank corruption of the Qaddafi era, has said no long-term contracts will be signed until an elected government is in place. And with cities still bristling with arms and jobless young men, Libya does not offer anything like a safe business environment -- hence the pitches from security providers.
Like France and Britain, the United States may benefit from the Libyan authorities' appreciation of NATO's critical air support for the revolution. Whatever the rigor of new rules governing contracts, Western companies hope to have some advantage over, say, China, which was offering to sell arms to Colonel Qaddafi as recently as July.
''Revenge may be too strong a word,'' said Phil Dwyer, director of SCN Resources Group, a Virginia contracting company that opened an office in Tripoli two weeks ago to offer ''risk management'' advice and services to a company he would not name. ''But my feeling is those who are in favor'' with the transitional council ''are going to get the nod from a business point of view.''
The Security Contracting Network, a job service run by Mr. Dwyer's company, posted on its blog two days after Colonel Qaddafi's death that there would be plenty of work opening up in Libya.
''There will be an uptick of activity as foreign oil companies scramble to get back to Libya,'' the company said, along with a need for logistics and security personnel as the State Department and nonprofit organizations expand operations. ''Keep an eye on who wins related contracts, follow the money, and find your next job,'' the post advised.
In Tripoli, there is a wait-and-see atmosphere. At breakfast on Friday in a downtown hotel, a British security contractor pointed out the tables of burly men -- hired guns like himself. ''Look at it,'' he said. ''Full of 'em.''
Many are still protecting foreign journalists, but others are hoping to get training contracts with a fledgling government trying to tame its unruly armed forces. Security industry officials say the work here may never match the colossal scale of spending in Iraq and Afghanistan, but with a squeeze coming on European and American government spending, it is a prize nonetheless.
Business opportunities for Western companies began opening in Libya in 2004, when Colonel Qaddafi's decision to give up his nuclear weapons program ended his country's pariah status. Mr. Hamod led four American business delegations to Libya between 2004 and 2010 and watched ''a gradual thawing of commercial relations,'' he said.
Total foreign direct investment in Libya had grown to $3.8 billion in 2010, from an estimated at $145 million in 2002, according to the World Bank. But many deals were skewed by brazen demands from Colonel Qaddafi's children for a share of the proceeds, and the state of the country was grim after many years of economic sanctions and neglect.
Libya ''needed everything,'' Mr. Hamod said: banking and financial services, hospitals and medical clinics, roads and bridges, and infrastructure for energy and for the oil industry.
Now, after months of fighting, and with the security situation still fragile, there are huge new requirements, like rebuilding apartment complexes reduced to rubble by shelling, guarding oil installations as they restore or expand production, and training and equipping new armed forces.
Mr. Hamod said American companies are often more hesitant than Chinese or some European companies about operating in a tumultuous environment like that of post-Qaddafi Libya. ''There's reluctance to charge headlong back into Libya,'' he said. ''Historically, U.S. companies are interested in the rule of law on the ground and what it might mean for a multimillion-dollar investment.''
At a Group of 8 meeting in Marseille, France, in September, finance ministers pledged $38 billion in new financing, largely loans, to Arab countries between 2011 and 2013. Though Libya is now pumping less than one-third of its prewar oil production of 1.7 million barrels a day, it has Africa's largest oil reserves, which eventually should mean a steady supply of cash.
The simultaneous excitement and confusion for people exploring opportunities in Libya are evident in proliferating Libya-themed groups on LinkedIn, the online business-oriented social network.
''Can anyone in the group tell me if there are flights into Tripoli,'' wrote Peter Murphy, an Irish surveyor now working on an offshore wind project, on a LinkedIn discussion page called Anglo Libya Business Group. ''Also, what is the situation for business visas for business travelers?''
One answer came from Mabruk Swayah, who identified himself on LinkedIn as a Libyan working in business development. ''Hi friends you are all welcome to Libya,'' Mr. Swayah wrote. ''Just make sure you go through the proper channels for your work contracts and don't get involved in bribes, inducements or sweeteners to officials.''
He added, ''Remember we have free media now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil terminal in Misurata, Libya, in May, after an attack by Qaddafi forces. Rebuilding will be a major task in Libya for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); WEB SITES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1320 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: China Is Asked For Investment In Euro Rescue

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and DAVID BARBOZA; Liz Alderman reported from Paris, and David Barboza from Beijing. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
PARIS -- A day after European leaders unveiled their latest plan to save the euro, top officials opened talks with China in an effort to lure tens of billions of dollars in additional cash, giving China perhaps its biggest opportunity yet to exercise financial clout in the Western world.
China is expected to demand significant concessions, including financial guarantees and limits on what Beijing sees as discriminatory trade policies, in exchange for any investment in Europe's emergency stability fund. The head of the rescue fund, Klaus Regling, got a cautious reply from Chinese officials Friday during a visit to Beijing, where he said he did not expect to reach an investment deal with China anytime soon.
A senior Chinese official, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao, said China -- like the rest of the world -- was still waiting for the Europeans to deliver crucial details on how the rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, would operate and be profitable before deciding on whether to participate. 
That Europe would turn so openly to China to help stabilize the debt crisis shows how quickly the Chinese economic juggernaut has risen on the world stage. Indeed, if China comes to Europe's aid, it will signal a new international order, with China beginning to rival the role long played by the United States as the world's pivotal financial power.
''This would be a tectonic shift,'' said Pieter P. Bottelier, an expert on China who teaches at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. ''It would be so important economically and politically.''
Arvind Subramanian, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said Europe's appeal was another sign that China was already a dominant global power.
''China's power is more imminent, broader in scope and greater in magnitude than anyone imagines,'' he said. ''For instance, China's currency is already having a negative effect not just on the U.S. and Europe, but on everyone else, too. And the rest of the world can't do anything about it. If that's not dominance, what is?''
Europe has turned to Beijing and a handful of other emerging market economies to consider investing in the fund to supplement contributions by the 17 countries that use the euro. Outside investment was presented as critical for the Europeans to create a financial firewall of up to $1.4 trillion to prevent the debt crisis that started in Greece from ravaging larger countries, including Italy and Spain.
In a sign that the crisis was far from over and that investors were still wary of Italy's political paralysis and its huge debt, it was obliged on Friday to pay the highest rate in more than a decade to sell a new bond issue.
The fear is that a failure to contain the crisis would lead to contagion in global financial markets on par with the Lehman Brothers debacle, and deliver a blow not only to the economies of Europe, but also to the United States and other major trading partners.
Such a deterioration would certainly be bad news for China, which could hardly afford to see two of its biggest markets hobbled at the same time.
China has a $3.2 trillion nest egg in foreign reserves, by far the largest hoard of foreign currency in the world, and it needs to find places to park those reserves rather than convert them all to Chinese renminbi, a step that could set off domestic inflation and lead to sharp appreciation in the currency's value. Europeans know that China is eager to move some of the money out of its vast pile of United States Treasury securities, and they are pushing the Continent's crisis as a good opportunity to invest on the cheap.
Hours after European leaders unveiled their grand plan, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France called President Hu Jintao to say that Europe was still looking for some cash, and lobbied Beijing to play a ''major role'' in helping Europe get its house in order.
Since the Europe crisis worsened two years ago, regional leaders once wary of China's influence have rolled out the red carpet in hopes that China might be a savior for their ailing economies. China has already made deals to expand its footprint into choice Western European countries like Italy and Spain. Now, Chinese-owned companies run the biggest shipping port in Greece. They own highways and other crucial infrastructure, and are working to snap up other strategic businesses to anchor their presence on European soil.
But with Europe's economy verging on its second recession in three years, Chinese officials are wary of taking too big of a risk abroad. China's own economy is slowing, and there is growing unease about inflation and a property bubble. The income gap between the rich and the poor is widening, posing challenges to the leadership in Beijing.
Chinese citizens have also been venting anger on the Internet about government investments in Europe that have turned out to be anything but profitable, including billions of euros worth of volatile bond holdings from stricken countries like Spain and Greece. And on a per capita basis China is still much poorer than Spain, Greece or Italy, meaning officials in Beijing could face a popular outcry if they poured resources into rescuing European countries or banks.
''There is a lot of skepticism within the Communist Party, but also in Chinese public opinion, about China sinking money into European reserve assets,'' said Jonathan Holslag, the head of research at the Brussels Institute of Contemporary China Studies.
Still, lending a hand to Europe could prove a golden opportunity for China to increase its financial and political clout, and make it more of an equal among giants on the Continent, analysts say.
Although leaders have pledged not to tie political demands to financial investments, Beijing has sought to get the European Union to recognize it as a market economy under global trade rules. Without that status, it is easier for other nations to initiate trade proceedings against China.
China is also eager to persuade Europe to drop its criticism of its currency valuation policies, especially at a time when the United States Congress is weighing legislation that would allow American companies to file trade cases against China on the basis of an undervalued renminbi.
Another longstanding sore point is the arms embargo that Europe and the United States imposed on China after its bloody 1989 crackdown on protesters in Tiananmen Square. The European Union recently considered easing the ban, but the United States has steadfastly objected. More than anything, lifting the ban would signal Europe's acceptance of China as an equal on the world stage.
It is not clear whether China would push that hard, though. As much as Europe wants the cash, Beijing knows that taking things too far could backfire.
''When you look at the diplomatic agenda, most officials understand that trying to impose political conditions on financial support is not going to work, and might even be counterproductive,'' said Mr. Holslag, the Brussels Institute researcher. ''If they become too blunt and assertive in attaching a lot of demands, that might lead to a defensive, if not protectionist, stance in Europe.''
Moreover, Europe is China's largest export market, so it may be in Beijing's interest to help boost European stability, said an official close to the Chinese government's deliberations although not directly involved in them.
If a contribution is made to the European stabilization fund, he said, it is likely to be sizable, although smaller than those by the biggest European countries or the International Monetary Fund. What would be crucial, he said, is that Germany, France and the European Central Bank are behind the plan to expand the fund.
''We are looking at China's pile of reserves with envy, and hope the Chinese are willing to spend something on us,'' said Paul de Grauwe, an economics professor at the University of Leuven in Belgium and an adviser to the European Commission. ''But they surely don't want to throw money at this except if they get an ironclad guarantee. If that doesn't happen, I don't think we should count on China to help us out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A guard at the European Union's embassy in Beijing. The head of the euro rescue fund met with Chinese financial officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (87%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); NEW ISSUES (71%); BONDS (71%); BOND ISSUES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) EUROPE (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1321 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Officers Unleash Vitriol as Peers Are Charged in Ticket-Fixing

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD and JOHN ELIGON; Reporting was contributed by Al Baker, Joseph Goldstein, Colin Moynihan and William K. Rashbaum.

 BODY:
A three-year investigation into the police's habit of fixing traffic and parking tickets in the Bronx ended in the unsealing of indictments on Friday and a stunning display of vitriol by hundreds of off-duty officers, who converged on the courthouse to applaud their accused colleagues and denounce their prosecution.
As 16 police officers were arraigned at State Supreme Court in the Bronx, incensed colleagues organized by their union cursed and taunted prosecutors and investigators, chanting ''Down with the D.A.'' and ''Ray Kelly, hypocrite.''
As the defendants emerged from their morning court appearance, a swarm of officers formed a cordon in the hallway and clapped as they picked their way to the elevators. Members of the news media were prevented by court officers from walking down the hallway where more than 100 off-duty police officers had gathered outside the courtroom. 
The assembled police officers blocked cameras from filming their colleagues, in one instance grabbing lenses and shoving television camera operators backward.
The unsealed indictments contained more than 1,600 criminal counts, the bulk of them misdemeanors having to do with making tickets disappear as favors for friends, relatives and others with clout. But they also outlined more serious crimes, related both to ticket-fixing and drugs, grand larceny and unrelated corruption. Four of the officers were charged with helping a man get away with assault.
Jose R. Ramos, an officer in the 40th Precinct whose suspicious behavior spawned the protracted investigation, was accused of two dozen crimes, including attempted robbery, attempted grand larceny, transporting what he thought was heroin for drug dealers and revealing the identity of a confidential informant.
The case, troubling to many New Yorkers because of its implication that the police officers believed they deserved special treatment, is expected to have long tentacles. Scores of other officers accused of fixing tickets could face departmental charges. Some officers have already retired. Moreover, the indictments may jeopardize thousands of cases in which implicated officers are important witnesses and may be seen as untrustworthy by Bronx juries.
The contentious scene in the Bronx concluded a week of deep embarrassment for the New York Police Department and Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, who at a news conference acknowledged the difficulty of having ''to announce for the second time this week that police officers have been arrested for misconduct.''
Federal agents earlier in the week arrested eight current and former officers on accusations that they had brought illegal firearms, slot machines and black-market cigarettes into New York City. Recently, other officers have been charged in federal court with making false arrests, and there was testimony in a trial in Brooklyn that narcotics detectives planted drugs on innocent civilians.
Of the 16 officers arraigned on Friday, ranking as high as lieutenant, 11 were charged with crimes related to fixing tickets. All of them pleaded not guilty, and all but two were released without bail. Officer Ramos was held in $500,000 cash bail. Jennara Cobb, a lieutenant in the Internal Affairs Bureau, was released after posting a $20,000 bail bond. She was accused of leaking information about the investigation to other officers.
Five civilians were also arrested in the case. Among them was Officer Ramos's wife, charged with participating with Officer Ramos in an insurance scam.
The outpouring of angry officers at the courthouse had faint echoes of a 1992 march by off-duty officers on City Hall to protest Mayor David N. Dinkins's call for more independent review of the police. And it raises unsettling questions about the current mind-set of the police force.
''It is hard to see an upside in the way the anger was expressed, especially in Bronx County, where you already have a hard row to hoe in terms of building rapport with the community,'' said Eugene J. O'Donnell, a professor of police studies at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''The Police Department is a very angry work force, and that is something that should concern people, because it translates into hostile interactions with people.''
The behavior could be construed as violating department rules. Even when officers are off duty, the police patrol guide states, ''Conduct which brings discredit to the department or conduct in violation of law is unacceptable and will result in appropriate disciplinary measures.''
Mr. Kelly said he did not witness the officers' courthouse conduct, but added, ''I think it's understandable that officers rally around when there's a time of trouble.''
A police official said Mr. Kelly did not condone the hostile comments made by some officers. Particularly disturbing, the official said, was a news report that said some officers chanted ''E.B.T.'' at people lined up at a benefits center across the street, referring to electronic benefit transfer, the method by which welfare checks are distributed. The people had apparently chanted ''Fix our tickets'' to the officers.
''To begin ridiculing people in the welfare line across the street doesn't endear you to the public eye,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition anonymity so as not to be heard directly criticizing members of the force.
The charged officers, accused of extending favors, seemed to have received a favor of their own from the authorities. They were spared a ''perp walk,'' the ritual in which suspects are walked to their booking or arraignment while photographers and videographers document their shame.
Instead, the officers were loaded into black vans at the Central Booking garage, then driven into a garage in the courthouse.
The ticket-fixing investigation began serendipitously in December 2008, after investigators began looking into accusations that Officer Ramos allowed a friend, Lee King, to sell drugs out of two barber shops named Who's First that the officer owned in the Bronx. A wiretap was placed on Officer Ramos, which yielded conversations about fixing tickets.
The authorities said Officer Ramos provided Mr. King with an apartment, a cellphone, a car and a parking placard. He was one of the civilians arrested.
Prosecutors said the bulk of the vanished tickets were arranged by officials of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the city's largest police union. All the officers charged with fixing tickets are either current or past union delegates or trustees.
As the investigation unfurled, the union played down its significance and consistently referred to ticket-fixing as ''professional courtesy'' inscribed in the police culture.
Patrick J. Lynch, the union president, said in a news conference that the officers had been arrested on something ''accepted at all ranks for decades.'' He did distance himself from those charged with graver offenses. He said he would have turned his back on Officer Ramos if he could have done so without insulting the court.
Mr. Kelly said that those who tried to rationalize ticket-fixing as part of the culture ''are kidding themselves, especially if they think the public finds it acceptable.''
During the investigation, overseen by the Bronx district attorney's office, prosecutors found fixing tickets to be so extensive that they considered charging the union under the state racketeering law as a criminal enterprise, the tactic employed against organized crime families. But they apparently concluded that the evidence did not support that approach.
The Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, said the tickets fixed had robbed the city of $1 million to $2 million.
While the union's highest echelons were untouched by the indictments, the timing was troubling for the organization. It faces various labor issues, like the loss of members because of the department's shrinking size and efforts by public officials to reduce their expensive perquisites.
Stephen C. Worth, a lawyer for the union who with his partner represented 11 of the defendants at the arraignment, criticized the case as ''prosecutorial overcharging'' for ''relatively minor administrative misconduct at best.''
On Thursday afternoon, the police union sent a text message to 400 delegates urging them to show up at the court. Scores of police officers began filtering in around midnight on Thursday, when some of the accused officers arrived for booking. Some off-duty officers wore dark-blue T-shirts with the message on the back, ''Improving everyone's quality of life but our own.''
Forming a wall four deep in the main foyer, they applauded as the defendants appeared. The indicted officers waved and pumped their fists. A court official who came out to calm the crowd drew insults. A woman told the officers to return for the arraignments.
On Friday morning, on the street outside the courthouse, some 350 officers massed behind barricades and brandished signs expressing sentiments like ''It's a Courtesy Not a Crime.''
When the defendants emerged, many in the crowd burst into raucous cheers. Once they had gone and the tide of officers had dispersed, the street was littered with refuse.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Officer Jose R. Ramos, left, whose suspicious behavior prompted the initial investigation, is accused of two dozen crimes.
 New York police officers filled a hallway in State Supreme Court in the Bronx on Friday as they awaited colleagues' arraignments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PARKING OFFENSES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); MISDEMEANORS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%); HEROIN (65%); ROBBERY (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); FIREARMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1322 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times for Gay Retirement Havens

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
SANTA FE, N.M. -- Like so many others who have settled here, Janice Gaynor and her partner, Barbara Cohn, wanted to retire somewhere where they could be themselves, whether that meant holding hands in public or making decisions about each other's end-of-life health care.
So when RainbowVision swung open its doors in 2006 as one of the first retirement communities in the country to proudly serve gay men and lesbians, offering elegant adobes where people could live out their lives among friends, the couple could not move in fast enough.
''This was our safety valve,'' Ms. Gaynor said. 
These days, that promise is all but forgotten. RainbowVision has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, racked by financial problems and an increasingly bitter dispute between residents and management. Its problems mirror those of many other gay retirement communities around the country that have either failed to open or fallen on hard times, victims of a weakened housing market, a deflated economy and, in some cases, poor business decisions.
They were once hailed as havens where the so-called Stonewall generation -- the first ''out'' group of senior citizens -- could age without being treated with hostility or forced back into the closet. But such communities in Austin, Tex.; Boston and in the Phoenix area never opened because of a lack of finances and a decline in real estate values. A development near Portland, Ore., is struggling at 25 percent of capacity, and another near Sarasota, Fla., has, like RainbowVision, filed for bankruptcy.
''It's very concerning to see places like RainbowVision having trouble, both because older people need them and because they're an important community institution,'' said Michael Adams, executive director of Services and Advocacy for G.L.B.T. Elders. The group, which is known as SAGE, is pushing for improved housing options for elderly gay men, lesbians, bisexuals and transgender people.
Many are growing older without the support of children or extended family members. Gay and lesbian seniors are twice as likely to live alone, according to SAGE. A 2010 report by the group also found that nursing homes often failed to protect gay men and lesbians from hostile treatment by staff or other patients. In a study released in April by the National Senior Citizens Law Center, many older gay men and lesbians and their family members reported instances of mistreatment at long-term care centers. The study also noted that social service providers said it was unsafe for residents to be openly gay at such facilities.
Potential residents of retirement communities, however, may be less inclined to sell their homes and move away during tough economic times. And because developments for older gay people have emerged only within the last 15 years or so, they may not have the financial reserves to weather an economic crisis, Mr. Adams said. As a result, housing options tailored to the estimated 1.5 million elderly people in the United States who are gay are especially limited.
Before buying a condominium at RainbowVision, Ms. Gaynor, a former school administrator, toured a traditional retirement community in Florida, but left with the distinct feeling that she and Ms. Cohn were not welcome.
The fear of suddenly being hurled back into a world that is not always friendly has divided residents at both RainbowVision and the Palms of Manasota, a small community near Sarasota on Florida's Gulf Coast whose developers filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy last year. A local bank foreclosed on unfinished buildings and a number of empty units at the Palms, and there is uncertainty about who will buy the foreclosed land.
''There was a lot of contentiousness, and the bank hasn't given any indication on what they plan to do,'' said Ron Lennon, president of one of two homeowners' associations at the Palms. He said his support for the bankruptcy angered fellow residents who feared what could happen to the community. ''There are still people here who won't talk to me.''
For those who have invested, both emotionally and financially, in retirement communities that never got off the ground, the prospect of having to drastically change their plans is daunting.
Alice Fisher, a retired caterer, is weighing her options after plans for Boston's first retirement community geared toward gay people were abandoned in 2008 after a major investor dropped out.
Ms. Fisher, 70, lost her $10,000 investment in the community. The developer, Stonewall Miner LLC, has since filed for bankruptcy. Ms. Fisher, who is single and owns her home, is contemplating moving into a rental for the first time, or to another retirement community.
''I thought it was really, really too bad,'' she said. ''This felt important because it felt like we were the last generation who were going to be able to do something like this because the economy has changed so much.''
The battle at RainbowVision has unsettled the once-harmonious group of about 100 residents, about half of whom are straight. It involves reduced services and the steeply rising monthly fee for use of a popular common building that includes a restaurant, a salon and a gym. The fee increase has strained the finances of some of the residents.
RainbowVision's chief executive and president, Joy Silver, said that the cost of running the community had skyrocketed and that the flailing economy had slowed leasing activity for the community's condominiums.
Many condo owners, including Ms. Gaynor and Ms. Cohn, began refusing to pay the common building fee and have been banned from using the building.
Ms. Silver, who founded RainbowVision with help from other investors, attributed much of the ill will to speculators who bought units but never lived there. ''What's difficult is watching people who are full of fear worry about what's going to happen to them and watching them go through the challenges of aging,'' she said. ''If it were up to me, everything would be free. But that's not pragmatic or realistic.''
In June, an arbitrator in the dispute between residents and the management decided that though RainbowVision had not broken any laws, it was overcharging residents based on the services it was providing. (An attorney for RainbowVision responded that the arbitrator had not taken into account how expensive it had become to operate the community.) In the bankruptcy court filings, RainbowVision's lender described the atmosphere at the community as ''terrible and openly hostile,'' and called for the management to be replaced.
''Every one of us had this starry-eyed vision of what we thought RainbowVision was going to be, and we thought we were working toward a common goal,'' said David Garrity, 62, who also stopped paying the disputed fee because of the lack of services.
Mr. Garrity, who has not fully moved into his condominium yet, said he had overlooked red flags about the company's finances because he was excited to be part of a project he called ''a dream'' for gay men and lesbians. ''Here we are, the victims, victimized by their own,'' he said.
Not everyone here has sided against RainbowVision's management. John Wojtkowski, who is disabled, has been renting there since the summer and praised the company for being responsive to his needs.
But Mr. Wojtkowski, who worked on Wall Street for nearly 30 years, said he was worried. ''We used to kid around when we were younger and say, 'Are we just going to sit around on a porch?' There was no place for us,'' he said. ''I don't hide the fact that I'm gay. When I came here, I felt like I could be myself.''
''I don't want to go back in the closet again,'' he added. ''Without RainbowVision, there's no other place to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barbara Cohn, left, and Janice Gaynor at home in Santa Fe, N.M. Ms. Gaynor said the RainbowVision retirement community, which has filed for bankruptcy protection, ''was our safety valve.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC DRAPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ron Lennon, president of one of two homeowners' associations at the Palms of Manasota near Sarasota, Fla., supported the development's bankruptcy filing. ''There are still people here who won't talk to me,'' he said.
 The landscape moves in on a building site at the Palms, where a bank has foreclosed on unfinished buildings and empty units. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); CHILDREN (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); DEFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ELDER LAW (71%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (93%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1323 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Prado to Stay Open Seven Days a Week

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
At a time when many museums in the United States and Europe have made cuts in the face of weakened endowments and dwindling public subsidies, the Prado in Madrid announced Thursday that it planned to increase its hours to remain open seven days a week. 
The museum will join several others in Europe and a few in the United States like the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, in staying open every day. (The Prado, which has a general entry fee of 10 euros (about $14), will remain open even on Good Friday, when it has traditionally been closed; it will be closed only three days a year, Jan. 1, May 1 and Dec. 25.) Prado officials said the decision was part of a plan to make more money from entry fees, with a goal of eventually generating 60 percent of its operating budget through such fees and other income to help offset reductions in government support as European economies sputter.
The expanded hours begin Nov. 8 for galleries housing a special exhibition, ''The Hermitage in the Prado,'' and Jan. 16 for the museum's permanent collection.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (78%); PAINTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1324 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: America's Exploding Pipe Dream

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
We are slowly -- and painfully -- being forced to realize that we are no longer the America of our imaginations. Our greatness was not enshrined. Being a world leader is less about destiny than focused determination, and it is there that we have faltered. 
We sold ourselves a pipe dream that everyone could get rich and no one would get hurt -- a pipe dream that exploded like a pipe bomb when the already-rich grabbed for all the gold; when they used their fortunes to influence government and gain favors and protection; when everyone else was left to scrounge around their ankles in hopes that a few coins would fall.
We have not taken care of the least among us. We have allowed a revolting level of income inequality to develop. We have watched as millions of our fellow countrymen have fallen into poverty. And we have done a poor job of educating our children and now threaten to leave them a country that is a shell of its former self. We should be ashamed.
Poor policies and poor choices have led to exceedingly poor outcomes. Our societal chickens have come home to roost.
This was underscored in a report released on Thursday by the Bertelsmann Stiftung foundation of Germany entitled ''Social Justice in the OECD -- How Do the Member States Compare?'' It analyzed some metrics of basic fairness and equality among Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development countries and ranked America among the ones at the bottom.
I could write (and have written) ad nauseam about our woeful state, but it might be more powerful to see it for yourself. So here are some of the sad data from the report.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Bottom of the Heap: Selected measures from the report ''Social Justice in the OECD How Do the Member States Compare?'' (Source: Bertelsmann Stiftung) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1325 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Undocumented Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''So Much for the Nativists'' (editorial, Oct. 27): With 14 million Americans unemployed and 7 million illegal immigrants working in the United States, jobs should be protected for legal workers. 
A federal E-Verify law could open up millions of jobs for unemployed Americans by requiring all employers to use this program. E-Verify quickly identifies individuals working here illegally and opens up jobs for citizens by checking Social Security numbers of new hires.
Individuals eligible to work here are immediately confirmed 99.5 percent of the time. With this track record, it's no wonder a recent poll found that 82 percent of likely voters support requiring all employers to use E-Verify.
Because growers often face a shortage of available American workers to fill seasonal agricultural jobs, I have also sponsored a bill to provide them a workable guest worker program. This bill eliminates the problems plaguing the current program and establishes a more effective system that is responsive to the needs of American growers while maintaining strong safeguards to protect legal workers. And it will help growers hire a legal work force without a fraud-ridden mass amnesty.
It seems that some critics oppose E-Verify and a guest worker program because they want illegal immigrants to stay in the United States and get amnesty. But why should we put the interests of illegal workers ahead of those of unemployed Americans?
LAMAR SMITH Washington, Oct. 27, 2011
The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FARM LABOR (74%); WRITERS (73%); SEASONAL WORKERS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1326 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: In Florida Battle, Casino Cash vs. Disney Image

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ; Christine Jordan Sexton contributed reporting from Tallahassee.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- The battle for Florida's tourism soul has been joined.
On one side is the Florida Chamber of Commerce and the powerful Walt Disney Company, which strenuously advances the family-friendly vacation-postcard image through its theme parks.
On the other side are billions of dollars in resort-casino investment, beckoning to traditionally gambling-averse lawmakers at a time when the state's economy is in the doldrums and unemployment remains stubbornly high.
The focus of the battle is a bill that, if adopted, would drastically change the profile of the gambling industry here by allowing three lavish $2 billion resort casinos to open in South Florida -- Dade and Broward Counties.
And with the promise of tens of thousands of sorely needed jobs and many millions of dollars in tax revenue, Florida politicians are recalibrating their positions. 
Showing its muscle, the Genting Corporation, a Malaysian company, this spring paid $236 million in cash for The Miami Herald headquarters, which hugs Biscayne Bay, and bought up neighboring properties to amass 30 acres for one of the casino projects.
The company, which runs an enormous resort casino in Singapore, plans to invest more than $3 billion and is already talking about fixing highways, building parking garages and partnering with nearby restaurants, hotels and the performing arts center. Its plan would create the largest casino in the country.
It was Genting's considerable investment and detailed plans that resuscitated gambling as a major legislative issue this year, with lawmakers promoting upscale casinos as an economic lifeline. The Las Vegas Sands, the Wynn and others are also vying for contention.
It is not as if legalized gambling is unknown in Florida, but the proposed destination resorts, as they are called, would be a radical departure from most of the existing gambling sites, which include casinos run by the Seminole Tribe of Florida, as well as racinos -- slot machines and no-limit poker rooms at racetracks.
Gov. Rick Scott, a conservative Republican who campaigned on the promise of creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, has remained mostly neutral, saying only that he does not want Florida's economy to over-rely on gambling. Devastated by the collapse of the housing market, Florida has a 10.6 percent unemployment rate and faces $2.6 billion in budget cuts this year.
The casino bill will be taken up in the two-month legislative session that starts in January. Despite the legions of lobbyists for the gambling industry who have swarmed Tallahassee and the state's appetite for treasure, victory for the casinos is hardly a cinch. That is because the gambling industry faces a daunting opponent: Disney, Florida's most powerful corporation.
Disney has long decried gambling as counterproductive to Florida's theme park tourism. Also in Disney's corner is the Florida Chamber of Commerce, an influential force among state Republicans, which argues that expanding gambling would mar the state's drive to court other industries. The chamber's chairman is a Walt Disney World executive. The powerful speaker of the House, Dean Cannon of Orlando, so far has stayed quiet on the project.
''Expanding casino gambling in Florida would never make sense in a good economy,'' said Mark A. Wilson, the president and chief executive of the Florida Chamber of Commerce. ''And the only reason they are even targeting Florida is that they are hoping that desperate people will reach for desperate measures. There is never a good time to push a bad idea.''
But even Jeb Bush, who vigorously fought the expansion of gambling while he was governor, says it appears casinos might find a home in the state next year, so long as it is in South Florida.
''The north will let the heathens in the south have the casinos, and they'll take the benefits,'' Mr. Bush told The Las Vegas Review-Journal editorial board this month.
The two lawmakers who introduced the bill argue that Florida became partners with the gambling industry years ago. The state receives hundreds of millions of dollars from the Seminole Tribe, which runs seven casinos statewide on its reservations, including the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Hollywood. The lawmakers want to end the tribe's monopoly on casinos. Florida also pockets healthy tax revenues from South Florida racinos. At the same time, the state is awash in Internet sweepstakes cafes that critics say double as low-rent, strip-mall gambling operations.
If anything, the lawmakers say, their bill would lure a wealthier, international clientele and bring a sense of coherence to Florida gambling by forcing the creation of an independent gambling commission, which would oversee gambling in the state.
''Everyone is sticking their heads in the sand,'' said Senator Ellyn Bogdanoff, a Fort Lauderdale Republican, who introduced the bill in the State Senate this week along with Representative Erik Fresen, a Miami Republican, who introduced it in the State House. ''Florida has become the fourth-largest gaming state in the country -- and we're an anti-gaming state.''
''The kind of gaming that is expanding here is the kind that nobody should want,'' Ms. Bogdanoff added. ''The point is that you create a strategic future for gaming: You reduce the bad gaming. And you increase the gaming that brings in economic development.''
To play down unflattering comparisons to Las Vegas, the bill would require that casinos be tucked out of view and would also require a minimum $2 billion investment. Broward and Dade Counties were selected because voters have already approved a referendum that permits Las Vegas-style slot machines.
Some Miami city boosters, including the head of the economic development group, and business leaders, say they fear that casinos could put local shops and restaurants out of business and mar a budding arts scene downtown.
''I want to make sure that none of these destination gaming resorts end up being a black hole that ends up sucking the life of the whole neighborhood,'' said Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez of Miami-Dade County. ''We don't want pawn shops and massage parlors.''
But Genting is working to allay concerns. For starters, the company says, Miami is a grown-up, cosmopolitan city, which already has its own identity, cultural backdrop and a strong tourism industry, unlike Atlantic City, Las Vegas and Biloxi, Miss.
What's more, the resort's convention center would allow large conventions to come to town. Lawmakers say that that is one reason Disney World, which does big business with conventioneers, opposes the plan.
This worries Miami Beach officials, who so far have said they do not want casinos on their island. Miami Beach has the only convention center in the Greater Miami area but it is badly outdated and does not have an onsite hotel. One candidate in the Miami Beach mayor's race has made bringing a new convention center and casino to Miami Beach one of his chief issues.
The local competition -- the Seminoles and the racinos -- is gearing up for the coming legislative brawl. If casino gambling expands, the Seminole Tribe says it will stop paying the state the $1 billion it agreed to over five years in exchange for exclusive rights to blackjack and baccarat. No exclusivity, no money.
''Every payment stops,'' said Barry Richard, the tribe's lawyer. ''The Seminoles are entitled to continue with their casinos for 20 years, and the state gets no money.''
The racinos with slot machine licenses are waging a separate battle. They pay a 35 percent tax rate to the state and, under the bill, the three casinos would pay a 10 percent rate. This would most likely put some of them out of business and shrink tax revenues.
In Tallahassee, the spoils are unmistakable.
''There's a lot of money flowing,'' said Senator Ronda Storms, a Brandon Republican.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of the Resorts World Miami casino resort, seen across Biscayne Bay, as proposed by the Genting Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF ARQUITECTONICA)
 Genting paid $236 million for The Miami Herald building as part of a 30-acre string of bayfront properties for the casino. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); GAMING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RESORTS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POKER (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); LOBBYING (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (51%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); LVS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1327 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Hitches Signal Further Difficulties for Euro Zone

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and DAVID JOLLY; Elisabetta Povoledo and Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Sobriety displaced euphoria in Europe on Friday as signals that the debt crisis was far from over, like higher borrowing costs for Italy, deflated a market rally that had followed a show of resolve by European leaders.
Italy was obliged to pay the highest rate in more than a decade to sell a new bond issue, a sign that investors remained wary of the country's political paralysis and a debt load equal to 120 percent of yearly economic output. If Italy's borrowing costs become unsustainable, the country is potentially a much greater threat than Greece to Europe and the world economy.
''The current Italian government has lost the confidence of investors,'' said Alessandro Giansanti, a rates strategist at ING in Amsterdam.
Elsewhere in the troubled euro zone, a big loss by an Austrian bank served as a reminder of the fragility of financial institutions, while a German supreme court decision scrambled efforts to speed up political decision making. In the meantime, the head of Europe's bailout fund turned to China to invest in the fund. 
The shift in mood Friday was sudden and stopped a rally only a day after it began.
On Thursday, major European indexes soared and bank shares rebounded after an all-night session in Brussels by European leaders that produced the boldest response yet to the debt crisis.
While major European stock indexes on Friday largely held on to their gains from the day before, investors seemed to be reflecting on the unanswered questions in the latest rescue package.
The plan, which was short on details, includes measures to bolster the resiliency of banks, to ease Greece's crushing debt load and to turbocharge the euro area's $623 billion rescue fund.
The benchmark indexes in Frankfurt, Paris and London were little changed at the end of trading Friday, while Italian shares fell 1.8 percent. The euro barely budged, trading at about $1.42.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips closed down 0.6 percent, while markets in Britain and Paris were also slightly lower. Germany's DAX was up 0.13 percent.
In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index registered a microscopic increase of 0.04 percent, ending the week up more than 3 percent, mainly on Thursday's lift from the summit meeting in Brussels and a report of growth in the American economy.
European technocrats are now charged with working out in the weeks ahead the specifics behind the broad outlines of Thursday's plan. The pace is unsettling for markets, but that is the methodical way that European leaders are determined to operate. Elected officials are focused on their reluctant voters, not on investors impatient for bold initiatives.
''If you ask someone on the street, they'll say they want the Deutsche mark back,'' said Martin Lueck, an economist at UBS in Frankfurt. ''This is why the politicians need to move in a piecemeal fashion. They need to keep people on board.''
Officials of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund hoped that Thursday's deal would soothe market anxiety by easing the terms of Greece's debt repayments enough to avoid default, as well as by building a war chest for safeguarding the larger Italian and Spanish economies against possible contagion.
But the lack of confidence in the plan was evident in the rise in interest rates on the bonds of both Italy and Spain. Benchmark yields jumped 14.4 basis points (about one-seventh of a percentage point) to 6.01 percent in Italy and 17.7 basis points to 5.49 percent in Spain.
Italy was supposed to help its own case this week by producing concrete evidence that it was streamlining its economy and cutting public debt. But Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's government, weakened by internal strife, delivered only promises, handing officials in Brussels a letter of intent describing hoped-for measures.
While Italy has a relatively low annual budget deficit, the ratio of total debt to gross domestic product is second-highest in the euro zone after that of Greece.
The market's skepticism showed in the auction results Friday. The Italian Treasury sold 3 billion euros of bonds due in 2022 at 6.06 percent, the highest rate since the creation of the euro. Italy also sold 3.1 billion euros of bonds due in 2014 to yield 4.93 percent, up from 4.68 percent at their last auction on Sept. 29.
Fears of contagion to Italy and Spain led the European Central Bank to begin buying the two countries' debt on the secondary market in early August, after their 10-year bonds topped the 6 percent mark.
Mr. Giansanti, the rates strategist at ING, noted that investors had bought most of the debt on offer, a positive sign. But the high borrowing costs showed mistrust over whether Italian officials would deliver promised measures to improve economic growth. Italian officials ''have to provide more information and show they have a credible plan,'' Mr. Giansanti said.
In addition, Mr. Giansanti said, the euro zone plan Thursday ''was a bit vague'' on the matter of the greatest interest to Italy, that is, how the firepower of the euro area rescue fund would be increased to a promised 1 trillion euros.
''It will be crucial, in particular for Italy, that the E.F.S.F. defines its leverage plan before February,'' Mr. Giansanti said, ''so that investors can trust that troubled countries can resort to the fund to pay their debt, if need be.''
Mr. Berlusconi, meanwhile, promised to deliver on his promises. ''Thanks to courageous reforms our country will make it,'' he said on Italian television.
In Germany, the Constitutional Court highlighted the complexity of European politics on Friday by issuing an injunction against a new panel in the German Parliament, the Bundestag, that is supposed to oversee the euro area rescue fund and accelerate decision-making. Germany is the largest contributor to the fund.
Several dissident lawmakers complained to the court that Parliament did not have the right to delegate decision-making to the panel, whose nine members were approved by a large majority on Wednesday. The court said Friday that the panel could not make decisions until judges had ruled on the merits of the complaint.
The parliamentary leader of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative bloc, Peter Altmaier, said the decision meant that the entire Bundestag must decide on matters relating to the rescue fund, Reuters reported. But Mr. Altmaier insisted that the court decision would not interfere with operations of the fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.
''The German Parliament will ensure that, until the main ruling, Germany's ability and the E.F.S.F.'s ability to act are secured,'' Mr. Altmaier said, according to Reuters.
In Vienna, the Erste Group, an Austrian bank that is one of the most active institutions in Eastern Europe, reported a loss of 1.5 billion euros for the third quarter, caused by problems at its Hungarian and Romanian subsidiaries and a revaluation of its derivatives portfolio.
The bank, which also restated its 2010 earnings, had warned of the loss and the problems earlier in the month. Erste Group said Friday that it had sold almost all of a 5.2 billion euro portfolio of credit-default swaps, a derivative the bank sold to customers as a form of insurance on government and corporate debt.
The disclosure about the swaps portfolio earlier this month raised questions about what other nasty surprises might be lurking in the balance sheets of European banks. Andreas Treichl, the chief executive of Erste Group, acknowledged that the bank had made mistakes. ''We do have to accept the fact we caused a lot of concern,'' he said Friday during a conference call with analysts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andreas Treichl, head of Erste Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEINZ-PETER BADER/REUTERS) (B1)
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Peter Altmaier, a parliamentary leader, deal with European rescue fund politics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MACDOUGALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NEW ISSUES (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); BOND ISSUES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); GERMAN MARK (68%); APPEALS (53%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); ITALY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (86%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1328 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Recycling in New York

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Lunch, Landfills and What I Tossed'' (news article, Oct. 23): 
I spent six years as the director of recycling for San Francisco. San Francisco realized early on that landfill space is limited and that future space is more expensive. The city therefore entered into an agreement directly with a landfill operator for a specific tonnage of waste it could dispose. The more the city recycled, the longer it would have access to the landfill.
San Francisco has since done everything it can to increase recycling: adding smaller volume cans to its longstanding volume-based disposal fees; putting systems in place to make participation convenient and easy; providing constant education in schools, in businesses and on the streets; hiring creative and qualified staff members who are expected to produce results; and having a surcharge on garbage fees to pay for its programs. This has added at least 15 years of landfill use.
Recycling is expensive in New York City because, at low recycling rates, recycling trucks must be added but garbage trucks are not taken off the street. And the city is ignoring the cost of future disposal.
Recycling in New York is surely a challenge. So is garbage collection. With the number of smart people in the city, I'm sure that a way can be found to make it work economically!
AMY PERLMUTTER Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1329 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Shares Settle After Rally Over European Debt Deal

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States eased back on Friday from their biggest monthly rally in decades, ending relatively flat as the euphoria over Europe's plan to address its sovereign debt crisis eased.
For the week, the three main indexes on Wall Street closed more than 3 percent higher, lifted mostly by the surge on Thursday that followed the announcement of the latest European rescue plan. The broader market in the United States, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, moved back into positive territory for the year.
But on Friday, some of the luster started to wear off as analysts focused on lingering doubts about whether the European plan would restore growth or bring long-term solutions to the sovereign debt problems in the countries that share the euro. 
''The enthusiasm is fading,'' Guy LeBas, a strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, said in a market commentary.
The ratings agency Fitch said that progress needed to be demonstrated in several areas: achieving a broad-based economic recovery in the euro zone, reducing government budget deficits, and stabilizing and reducing government debt ratios. Otherwise, it added, financial market volatility and downward pressure on sovereign ratings would continue.
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 0.18 percent, or 22.56 points, at 12,231.11 and the S.& P. was up 0.04 percent, or less than a point, at 1,285.08. The Nasdaq was down 1.48 points at 2,737.15.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips closed down 0.6 percent, while markets in Britain and Paris were also slightly lower. Germany's DAX was up 0.13 percent. Asian stocks closed higher.
While some trading this week in the United States was inspired by corporate earnings, reports of mergers and economic data, the financial markets were mostly focused on the prospects of some kind of agreement on a way to resolve Europe's debt problems.
Those hopes helped stocks to rise on Monday, but on Tuesday they sank after the abrupt cancellation of a meeting of European finance ministers that was meant to precede the meeting that resulted in the final plan.
Stocks rose again on Wednesday and powered higher on Thursday around the world after the summit meeting in Brussels.
''There is not enough detail around what is going on in Europe and until you get more clarification, you will probably get some days where you will see swings like this,'' said Laura LaRosa, the director of fixed income at the investment and wealth management firm Glenmede in Philadelphia.
Still, the S.& P. 500 was up 13.58 percent so far this month, its highest monthly gain since October 1974, when it rose 16.3 percent in the month.
Ross Junge, the chief investment officer for fixed income, at Aviva Investors North America, said the combination of modestly improving economic data recently for the United States and lower euro zone risks contributed to a ''modestly positive'' outlook for the credit markets.
''The key impacts from the announcement are investors' increased confidence that the threat of a near-term systemic financial crisis will be avoided and the potential spillover risks to the U.S. economy and financial institutions should be reduced,'' Mr. Junge said in a market commentary. ''However, there will likely be additional bumps along the way.''
Ms. LaRosa said the price on the benchmark bond would rise as the market remained unsteady.
The United States 10-year Treasury bond rose to 98 9/32 from 97 24/32. The yield was 2.32 percent, down from 2.39 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); PUBLIC DEBT (93%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); EURO ZONE (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); MERGERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (62%)

COMPANY: AVIVA INVESTORS NORTH AMERICA INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1330 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Selling Pieces of Law Firms

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
Imagine an afternoon trip to a Wal-Mart: You pick up socks, a flat-screen television and a microwave meal. After checking out, you stop in the photo studio at the front of the store for a family portrait, and then shift one booth over to a lawyer, who drafts your will or real estate contract.
The concept may not be that far-fetched.
England began this month to allow groups other than lawyers to own and control law practices, and some of the country's major retailers have begun offering legal services in their stores and online. Other countries, most notably Australia, already allow someone other than a lawyer to own a practice. 
Now, with calls increasing for a similar model in the United States, the country's chief legal ethics authority intends to propose a plan to permit law practices to have limited outside ownership.
Such a move could upend the industry's stiff adherence to the partnership system in favor of full-fledged corporations that have access to the capital markets.
Some legal experts envision a marketplace that would become more customer-friendly, affordable and accessible for the average consumer: one-stop shops on street corners that bundle, for instance, legal, banking, accounting and real estate services; drive-through-style law firms with numerous branches across the country, similar to accounting shops like H&R Block; more complex legal services offered online; and, of course, retail stores with a legal unit.
Although Australia's legal landscape has not shifted in this direction since it began allowing outside ownership of law firms in 2007, analysts are eagerly watching to see what will become of the legal market in England, which has more global prominence.
Regulators hope giving law practices access to private capital will allow them to invest in technology and other resources that could help them operate more efficiently and at cheaper rates.
''That surely expands the pool of individuals and organizations that have access to effective legal services,'' said Mark Ross, the vice president of legal services at Integreon, an international legal process outsourcing company.
An ethics commission of the American Bar Association is expected to circulate by early November a draft proposal recommending that ethics rules be amended to allow other professional service providers -- like accountants, economists and social workers -- to partner with lawyers and own up to 25 percent of a law firm.
The current rules say that only lawyers may share directly in legal fees.
Individual states have the final say on whether to allow ownership by someone other than a lawyer. Washington is now the only jurisdiction in the United States that allows it. A bill to allow investments in law firms was introduced this year in North Carolina. One New York firm, Jacoby & Meyers, has sued the state's court system to allow it to receive capital from outside investors.
Despite these efforts, many lawyers and legal analysts remain skeptical about the need for outside investors and are concerned about the ethical implications.
''The idea is that nonlawyers might not have the same codes of ethics,'' said Andrew M. Perlman, a legal ethics professor at Suffolk University Law School and the chief reporter for the American Bar Association's Ethics 20/20 commission, which is preparing the draft recommendation. ''They might not be bound by the same sense of professional responsibility and might push the lawyers to do things that they should not be doing to chase the dollar rather than abiding by the rules of professional conduct.''
One ethical concern is about lawyer-client privilege, as shareholders would have an interest in knowing who the firm's clients were and the specifics of their cases. Another is that lawyers might feel pressured, for example, to settle a lawsuit to make shareholders happy, no matter what the best interest of their client was.
But such thinking derives from the naive assumption that the lawyers ''who currently own law firms are not motivated by profit,'' said Ken Fowlie, the executive director of Slater & Gordon, an Australian law firm that was the first in the world to become a publicly traded company.
If anything, going public has increased transparency, Mr. Fowlie said, and has separated the ownership from the lawyers, giving the lawyers more distance from business side pressures than in traditional partnerships.
Since listing on the Australian Stock Exchange in May 2007, Slater & Gordon's revenue has more than tripled. It has added 30 offices for a total of 50 and has more than doubled its roster of employees to about 1,000.
Despite Slater & Gordon's success, the largest Australian firms have not followed suit. Legal analysts attribute that to various factors, including volatile market conditions, the country's tax laws and the fact that Australia is not an international legal and financial hub.
Yet it may also hint at a broader reluctance among major firms in England and the United States to allow private investors.
Top-tier firms already make a lot of money and could easily borrow from banks in the rare instance they might need capital, lawyers said.
''It's a nonstarter for us,'' said Chris Perrin, the general counsel for Clifford Chance, one of Britain's largest firms. ''Some of the firms that will do this in England who are the smaller to midsized firms may get an advantage because they may not be able to so readily borrow money from banks and they may be able to expand more quickly to provide a better service to their clients.''
Big firms may have cultural obstacles as well: lawyers are trained to avoid risk, and partners are unwilling to cede control or equity to outsiders.
Ralph Baxter, the chairman and chief executive of the law firm Orrick, said allowing law firms to accept outside capital would give them market value and could make them attractive to investors. Even if investors do not establish direct profit-sharing agreements, they can provide capital that law firms could use to invest in technology, streamline processes and expand, becoming more profitable businesses, Mr. Baxter said.
''The investors can sell their investment because it's worth more,'' he said.
Legal experts expect outside investment to be more eagerly sought by small law firms and those providing basic legal services, especially online.
The English law allowing nonlawyer ownership, the Legal Services Act, took effect on Oct. 6, but regulators are not expected to begin offering licenses for outside ownership until early next year. The act has been called the ''Tesco law'' after the major retail chain based in Britain.
Although Tesco has no plans to sell legal services in stores, other English retailers and professional service providers like WHSmith, the Co-Operative Group and Halifax have moved in that direction.
Consumers may gravitate toward a particular retailer for legal services because ''they know what the brand stands for and what they're going to get,'' said Stephen Mayson, the director of the Legal Services Institute in England.
Bradford Hildebrandt, the president of Hildebrandt Consulting, a legal consulting firm, said he did not believe there was much unmet demand.
''The average American consumer doesn't need lawyers all that often,'' Mr. Hildebrandt said. If someone needs simple services like drafting a will or defending a small-claims lawsuit, ''there's plenty of law firms available for that market and they're priced pretty reasonably,'' he said.
Some lawyers and analysts believe that the tough economy and consumer demand for lower prices will spur the industry, even top-tier firms, to find ways to use private investment to become more competitive. And if English firms gain even a perceived advantage, experts said, calls to change the rules in the United States could increase.
Irwin Mitchell, one of Britain's top 25 law firms, has said it plans to seek outside investment once the law allows it.
''The more sophisticated firms, the ones that will thrive in the future, they have become very much aware of what this new situation presents,'' said Silvia Hodges, who teaches law firm management at Fordham Law School. ''To say or to assume that the status quo is going to prevail and that we're not going to have any changes, that doesn't make any sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erin Sula of Quality Solicitors promotes her company's legal services at the West London store of the retailer WHSmith. (B1)
 Erin Sula from Quality Solicitors talks about her company with Dalal Nokhas, right, an 18-year-old student, at WHSmith. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKKO TAKKUNEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ETHICS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); LEGAL ETHICS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); LITIGATION (72%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); JURISDICTION (65%)

COMPANY: INTEGREON MANAGED SOLUTIONS INC (58%); H & R BLOCK INC (54%); JACOBY & MEYERS LLC (50%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (58%); NAICS561410 DOCUMENT PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1331 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Batteries at a Wind Farm Help Control Output

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
ELKINS, W.Va. -- Another wind farm opened on another windy ridge in West Virginia this week, 61 turbines stretched across 12 miles, generating up to 98 megawatts of electricity. But the novel element is a cluster of big steel boxes in the middle, the largest battery installation attached to the power grid in the continental United States.
The purpose of the 1.3 million batteries is to tame the wind, but only slightly, according to the AES Corporation of Arlington, Va., which developed both the wind farm, known as Laurel Mountain, and the battery project. 
The installation is far too small to store a night's wind production and give it back during the day when it is needed, or to supply power when the wind farm is calm for more than a few minutes. Instead, AES says, the battery will be a shock absorber of sorts, making variations in wind energy production a little less jagged and the farm's output more useful to the grid.
The technology is young, and the finances are challenging. But the task of smoothing output, and the more ambitious one of storing many hours of electricity generated by wind production, seem likely to become ever more important as states require that a rising percentage of their electricity come from renewable sources.
The 13-state regional power grid that includes West Virginia, for example, has a capacity of 4,800 megawatts of electricity from the wind. But that number would grow eightfold if all of the states involved reached their renewable targets.
Power systems have always faced fluctuations in demand. As they incorporate more wind into the mix, they will have to cope with supply fluctuations as well.
Predicting wind output can be a challenge. ''If you blow your forecast, you're in a heap of hurt,'' said one storage expert, David L. Hawkins, a senior consultant at KEMA, a consulting firm.
Other power sources, mostly natural gas plants, can be called on as replacements, but such plants take longer to ramp up -- or ramp down -- than a wind farm or a field of solar panels, a problem that is becoming more widely recognized across the country. This year, two big manufacturers of gas-fired power plants, Siemens and General Electric, promoted new models that could change output faster, but system operators say that even these may not be nimble enough.
''That's the challenge you have in running the power system,'' said Mark T. Osborn, an executive at Portland General Electric in Oregon who is working on a similar installation in the Pacific Northwest. ''Storage has been thought about for years, but the costs have always been too high. Now when you're trying to integrate more renewable resources, storage becomes more necessary.''
Already, in periods of low energy demand on windy nights, wind production is so strong that electricity prices on the grid can decline to zero or even go negative. When they are negative, grid operators bill wind suppliers to put power into the system.
In theory, the assumption would be that the operators of the batteries here would charge them at night and release the energy during peak periods in the daytime.
But the batteries are so small -- somewhere between C and D batteries in size -- that the wind farm, at full power, would fully charge them in about 15 minutes. Even at a peak demand time, the energy stored would only be worth a few hundred dollars.
The economics can be likened to storing tap water in a solid gold vessel. While AES did not disclose the price of the wind farm or the battery installation, a company executive gave a nod when presented with an industry estimate that the batteries and related electronics cost in the range of $25 million. The supplier, A123 Systems, of Westborough, Mass., says future installations will use batteries developed for electric cars and will cost less.
Yet the batteries perform two other tasks that the company hopes will turn a profit and pave the way for even bigger projects.
Rather than store power on a daily basis, said John M. Zahurancik, vice president for operations and deployment at AES Energy Storage, the installation will earn its keep by storing energy for minutes at a time, over and over again.
In the space of an hour, the output from the wind farm could go from 98 megawatts to zero. ''In any short couple-minute interval, it could vary 20 or 30 or 40 percent,'' Mr. Zahurancik said.
The batteries will smooth out the changes so the rest of the grid can catch up, he said, making the electricity sold more valuable.
The battery installation will also assist with a different kind of grid stabilization: trying to keep the alternating current system correctly synchronized. To keep the system as close to 60 cycles as possible, the regional grid operator, the PJM Interconnection, sends a signal every four seconds, asking for power to be added or withdrawn.
Experts foresee other roles as the grid evolves. For example, PJM operates a real-time market in which electricity is priced in five-minute blocks. At a given location, the price from one block to the next can vary significantly.
Mr. Hawkins of Kema said that a big battery array could make money in that market.
''It's kind of like being a day trader on Wall Street,'' he said. ''If you see a $30 price spread, you can make some interesting trades doing it over and over in the course of a day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Vince Ponikvar, an AES employee, with battery containers in the background at the company's Laurel Mountain wind farm in West Virginia. Middle, Isaiah Jefferson, of AES, explaining how the battery stations smooth power fluctuations. Above, a battery container at the farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (96%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%)

COMPANY: AES CORP (92%); SIEMENS AG (58%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (92%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); POR (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1332 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Self-Delusion on Finances

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog and on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.
In its most simplistic form, financial planning is the process of charting a course from where you are today to where you want to go. The first step is to become crystal clear about what I call your current reality, or where you stand now.
I used to think that being very clear about your current reality was the easy part of financial planning. Once you did that, the hard part started: Making guesses about other things, like where you want to be in 20 years, the rate of return you will earn and inflation. 
Compared to those variables, defining your current reality should indeed be the easiest part of the process. It's certainly a matter of fact. But apparently getting this clear is harder than I thought.
Based on a new study from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, it appears that we have a problem: Many of us are actually far from clear about our current financial reality. According to the study, only 50 percent of households reported having credit-card debt, while credit-card companies indicated that the number is actually 76 percent of households.
In addition, even after adjustments were made for people paying their full balances every month, the average household reported credit-card debt of $4,700. Lenders, meanwhile, report an average balance per household of over $7,100.
While I haven't read the entire study, my sense from the conversations I've had in the last couple of years is that these misunderstandings are indeed a problem. A number of reasons could explain the difference, but among them is the reality that many of us may not know where we stand with respect to our finances. In fact we may not want to know.
As the study's authors point out, this result ''could come from willful ignorance, as credit-card balances are not welcome information.'' When you are overweight the last thing you want to see is a scale!
But how can you expect to make progress if you have no idea where you're starting from? Over the years, I've noticed that the biggest differences between people who reach their financial goals and those who don't is knowledge of where they stand in the first place. When I ask financially successful people for a balance sheet showing their assets and debts, not only do they know what a personal balance sheet is, they often have one that is relatively current.
The point here isn't that a balance sheet leads to guaranteed financial success. But if we're to have any hope of getting to a destination, it helps to start by being very clear about where you're leaving from. In this instance, a balance sheet can help with that clarity.
If you're unhappy with your financial situation and want to make a plan to change it, start today by defining where you stand. Take all the credit cards out of your wallet, flip them over to the back, find the phone number and call the credit card company to ask for your balance. Write the balances down on a piece of paper. Add up the total.
Now make a plan to deal with what you've just learned. There's been plentywritten about how to do that, but it all starts by getting very clear about where you stand.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (87%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1333 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Slight Decline In Veterans Using Shelters

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
Homeless veterans are most likely to be middle-aged white men with a disability. Younger veterans are more than twice as likely to be homeless than nonveterans in the same age group. And California has the most homeless veterans of any state, accounting for about a quarter of the nation's total.
Those are among the critical findings of a government report released on Friday that provides some of the most detailed data yet on the nation's population of homeless veterans, which in 2010 stood at more than 144,000, according to the report. 
A joint product of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Veterans Affairs, the report underscored the Obama administration's halting progress toward fulfilling its pledge to end homelessness among veterans by 2014.
According to the report, the number of veterans who used emergency shelters or transitional housing for the homeless in 2010 dropped 3 percent from the year before, to 144,842, from 149,465. But the report also found that veterans continue to be overrepresented in the nation's homeless population, accounting for 13 percent of all homeless adults in shelters, even though they are just over 9 percent of the total adult population.
Experts say the five-year goal, first outlined by the secretary of veterans affairs, Eric K. Shinseki, a former Army chief of staff, is ambitious at best and perhaps unrealistic. But the administration has used the pledge to advocate expanded measures to fight veterans' homelessness, including vouchers for supportive housing for disabled veterans and grants to help veterans avoid homelessness by paying for security deposits or back rent.
''We have much work to do, but we are on the right track,'' Mr. Shinseki said in a statement accompanying the report.
Among the more striking statistics in the report is that veterans are overrepresented in the homeless population, since veterans tend to be more economically stable than the rest of the population, having higher median incomes and a lower poverty rate than nonveterans.
But the researchers found that once veterans fall into poverty, a higher percentage of them become homeless, about one in nine. Government experts said that might be caused by two major factors: many of the homeless veterans are single men with no family support, and most of them have a disability, which could include physical injuries, mental illness or substance abuse problems.
The data showed that more than 90 percent of homeless veterans in shelters are men, and more than half of those men are white and disabled. The largest segment of veterans in shelters, more than 4 in 10, were between the ages of 51 and 61.
Although veterans under 30 represented a small portion of the homeless veteran population, the report found that those younger veterans were twice as likely as their nonveteran peers to be homeless, raising concerns that combat veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are drifting into poverty and dislocation soon after returning home.
The demographics changed drastically among homeless families, who represented just 2 percent of veterans in shelters. In this group, the homeless were far more likely to be younger women from a minority group who did not have a disability.
The report found that while white men were the largest group of homeless veterans, minorities were disproportionately represented, as is the case in the nonveteran population as well. Experts said that might be due to the fact that nearly 7 in 10 homeless veterans are in urban areas, where the population is more ethnically diverse.
More than half of all the homeless veterans were in four states: California, followed by Florida, New York and Texas, all of which have large populations of veterans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (95%); VETERANS (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); MEN (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (79%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (75%); POVERTY RATES (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (70%); FAMILY (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); CITIES (55%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

PERSON: ERIC K SHINSEKI (54%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1334 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Candidates? Few Are the 99 Percent

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
Occupy Wall Street protesters have touched a nerve with their slogan, ''We are the 99 percent.'' It has focused attention on the ground gained by the rich even as a brutal economy has pushed the typical American family backward. Economic inequality may or may not become a central issue in the presidential race, but the candidates have at least one reason to hope it does not.
A look at the finances of those vying for the presidency shows that almost all of them rank at the very top of the country's earners. In other words, they are the 1 percent.
The possible exceptions are Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Representative Ron Paul of Texas, whose annual household earnings may not exceed the estimated cutoff of $700,000 for the top 1 percent, and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who has yet to file a financial disclosure. 
Buddy Roemer, the former governor of Louisiana, probably does not make the cut either, which may be one reason Mr. Roemer paid a visit to the protest encampment in Zuccotti Park in Manhattan to express his solidarity.
But Mitt Romney, whose fortune, totaling as much as a quarter of a billion dollars, dwarfs those of his rivals; Jon M. Huntsman Jr., whose father owns a global chemical company; Newt Gingrich, a successful author; Herman Cain, a businessman who reports earnings of over $1.2 million; and Rick Santorum, the former senator, who took in over $700,000 last year, are all solidly in the 1 percent, as measured by assets, income or both.
The wealth is not limited to Republicans. Though President Obama was not in the 1 percent in 2006, before his entry to presidential politics, he earned between $1.8 million and $6.8 million last year, largely from book royalties.
The gap between the candidates and the electorate is especially striking in an election season in which the economy is foremost in people's minds and politicians are trying to demonstrate that they can feel the pain. Many people believe that those responsible for the financial crisis escaped punishment with the help of political allies.
Democrats have more or less embraced the Wall Street protesters, while Republicans have wavered between dismissing them and trying to redirect their anger from Wall Street to the White House.
The protesters are far from the only potential voters disturbed by the growing wealth divide. In a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, 69 percent of respondents said that Republican policies favored the rich. Twenty-eight percent said the same of Mr. Obama's policies, while only 23 percent thought his policies favored the middle class. Sixty-six percent said the country's distribution of wealth should be more even.
The wealth of the candidates exacerbates the sense that politicians are far removed from middle-class American lives. ''You want to know that elected leaders understand the consequences of their political decisions,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, the director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania. ''Does that candidate understand what I'm going through right now? What my family is going through? Do they know what it's like to lose your home, to lose your job?''
Of course, presidential politics has long been a sport for the rich, and candidates need not be middle-class themselves to convince voters that they understand. Some, like Mr. Cain and Mr. Perry, may win people over with their stories of ascent from humble beginnings.
But even bootstraps are not strictly necessary. ''A rich person can represent the 99 percent,'' said Judy Goldstock, a retired social worker protesting in Zuccotti Park. ''Look at Kennedy.''
Mr. Romney has scolded his audiences at times for ''attacking people based on their success.'' And Mr. Cain proclaimed, ''If you don't have a job and you're not rich, blame yourself.'' (Or, he later amended, blame Mr. Obama.)
The 99 percent meme has shifted the debate from the days when President Obama spoke of raising taxes on families that made more than $250,000. ''Many people could see a future in which they might make $250,000,'' Ms. Jamieson said. ''Very few can see a future in which they would be a member of the 1 percent.''
The alienation is evident in a study of mothers who shop at Wal-Mart, where pollsters found that the women did not believe their elected officials could understand what it was like to be consumed by the price of milk, gasoline and college tuition.
''We asked, 'If your elected officials knew about your life what would they do?' And somebody said, 'Cry,' '' said Margie Omera, the founder of Momentum Analysis, a Democratic polling firm that along with Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican firm, has been tracking the women since May 2010. ''They always want to know, 'When is my bailout going to come?' ''
In focus groups, the women discussed the satisfaction they derived from watching ''Undercover Boss,'' a reality show in which top executives take a turn at the bottom of the ladder in their own companies.
Membership in the 1 percent can be measured by wealth or by income. By household wealth, the cutoff point would be a projected $9 million in 2010, according to an analysis of the Federal Reserve Board's Survey of Consumer Finances by Edward Wolff, an economist at New York University. The cutoff for annual household income would be about $700,000, Mr. Wolff said. (Using Internal Revenue Service figures, which count earnings differently, the Congressional Budget Office puts the earnings cutoff at $350,000 for the 1 percent in 2007.
At Zuccotti Park, protesters described the 1 percent variously as people who ''can just make money with money,'' ''the ones so interested in making profits that they're willing to lay off hundreds of thousands of people a year,'' and ''anyone who doesn't create a product.''
Even by the numbers, though, it is hard to tell precisely where the candidates stand. The majority have not released tax returns, and their financial disclosure forms give only a range of assets and income. Mrs. Bachmann's income was listed at $280,000 to $840,000, and Mr. Paul's was $360,000 to $1.1 million, which included their Congressional salaries of $174,000.
The disclosures exclude the candidates' homes and other noninvestment property, as well as the salaries of their spouses. Most disclose income over a period longer than a year, from which The New York Times calculated annual earnings. The candidates were likelier to rank in the elite in income rather than in assets. Mr. Cain's net worth topped out at $6.6 million, for example, and Mr. Santorum's at $2.6 million.
Mr. Perry appears to be among the least affluent of the leading candidates. He earns $150,000 a year as governor, and his wife makes $60,000 a year at a nonprofit organization. But the couple have made money in real estate deals, including one that pushed their income above $1 million in 2007. Various news organizations have estimated the Perrys' net worth at just over $1 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rallying in Portland, Ore., this week, part of nationwide activism inspired by Occupy Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A12)
 PHOTOS (A15) CHART: Are the Candidates in the Top 1 Percent? All presidential candidates must fill out a form declaring their finances. The form asks how many assets and income sources the candidate has within certain ranges. Here are the ranges of each candidate's declared assets and income compared with a threshold that represents whether they are within the top 1 percent of earners. (Source: U.S. Office of Government Ethics filings)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FAMILY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); WRITERS (65%); ROYALTIES (65%); CHEMICALS MFG (51%); CHEMICALS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); HERMAN CAIN (56%); RICK SANTORUM (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); RICK PERRY (54%); RON PAUL (54%); MICHELE BACHMANN (54%); JON HUNTSMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1335 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 582 words

PERSON: Howard E. Wolpe 

HEADLINE: Howard Wolpe, 71, Backer Of '86 Anti-Apartheid Act

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Howard E. Wolpe, a former congressman who played a crucial role in passing legislation that imposed economic sanctions on South Africa in the 1980s, helping to bring an end to apartheid while overcoming two vetoes by President Ronald Reagan, died Tuesday at his home in Saugatuck, Mich. He was 71.
His cousin Bruce Wolpe said the cause had not been determined. 
Mr. Wolpe, a Democrat, represented the Third Congressional District in southwestern Michigan for 14 years, starting in 1978. He was chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Africa from 1982 to 1992. That placed him at the forefront of America's policy response to the growing domestic movement pressuring South Africa's government to end more than half a century of white supremacist rule.
He was a primary sponsor of the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986, which imposed sanctions against American companies doing business in South Africa. Among its provisions, it called for government pension plans to withdraw their investments from corporations doing billions of dollars of business there.
That was too blunt for the White House. ''President Reagan saw South Africa as an important ally against expansion of Soviet influence, and he was a very pro-business president,'' Steve McDonald, director of the Africa program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said on Friday. ''He wanted to use what he called 'constructive engagement' with the government to bring an end to apartheid.''
Mr. Reagan twice vetoed versions of the law. Though the second draft was weaker, in Mr. Wolpe's opinion, he led the effort to marshal the bipartisan support needed in both the House and Senate to overturn the second veto.
From the House floor on Aug. 1, 1985, he declared: ''The white minority regime will abandon apartheid, and will agree to enter into negotiations with the credible black leadership of the majority of the population, only at that point when it concludes that it has more to lose than to gain by attempting to hold on to apartheid.''
Mr. Wolpe retained his concern for Africa well after he retired from Congress in 1992. In a statement on Thursday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said that ''as special envoy to Africa's Great Lakes Region under President Clinton, he supported peace talks that helped bring an end to longstanding civil wars in Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.''
Howard Eliot Wolpe was born in Los Angeles on Nov. 3, 1939, the only child of Arthur and Zelda Wolpe. He graduated from Reed College in Oregon and went on the earn a doctorate in political science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Soon after, he began teaching at Western Michigan University. He was later a professor at the University of Michigan and Michigan State University.
Before entering Congress, Mr. Wolpe served in the Michigan House of Representatives. He ran for governor in 1994 but lost to the incumbent, John Engler.
Mr. Wolpe's first marriage, to Celia Jeanene Taylor, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Julianne Fletcher, and a son from his first marriage, Michael.
Apartheid ended in 1994. Among the conditions for lifting sanctions in the legislation championed by Mr. Wolpe was that the South African government release Nelson Mandela from prison.
''One of the first calls that Mandela made when he was finally released in 1990,'' Mr. McDonald said, ''was to Howard Volpe to thank him for playing the role he did in passing the law.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bill Clinton with Howard E. Wolpe in 1994. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VETO (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (54%)

RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); BURUNDI (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1336 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Some Republicans in Congress Are Pushing Steps to Ease Immigration

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Tim Griffin, a Republican freshman from Arkansas with a university in his district, supports legislation that would make it easier for foreign math and science professionals to get legal residency.
Representative Bobby Schilling, Republican of Illinois, is resisting intense pressure to support a House bill that would require employers to verify the legal status of their workers because he is concerned that businesses would be unduly burdened.
Senator Mike Lee of Utah, one of the most conservative members of the chamber, recently teamed with Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, on a bill that would provide three-year residential visas to foreign home buyers who invest at least $500,000. 
While the Republican presidential campaign trail bristles with talk of moats, militarization and electrified fences when it comes to illegal immigration, the view among some Congressional Republicans has become more nuanced and measured.
Now many Republican freshmen, lacking the scar tissue of previous Congressional attempts to make sweeping changes in immigration law, are advocating that policy be changed in small, bite-size pieces that could help bring order to the system and redefine their party's increasingly anti-immigration image, even as they maintain a strong push for better federal border security.
The move comes as some leading Republican voices are warning that the view of their party among Hispanics is doing significant political damage and causing economic disruption.
''It does cause me a great deal of concern,'' said Mark Shurtleff, the Republican attorney general of Utah, where the Republican-controlled Legislature recently passed a law to give some protections to illegal workers who find employment in the state. ''The rhetoric I hear from the Republican candidates, and that state legislatures that are passing enforcement-only provisions, are both damaging the economy. We ought not to be doing things to hurt the economy right now, and I think this hurts us politically.''
In addition to worrying that Hispanics are turning away from their party, some Republicans feel the heat from local employers, who need immigrant labor to fill jobs they have repeatedly been unable to fill with American workers. Others still worry about the drain of American-trained math and science students back to their home countries, where they will compete with Americans in building businesses.
''We Republicans are hearing more and more from businesses and the agricultural communities that this system isn't working,'' said Representative Raul R. Labrador of Idaho. ''The subtle difference that I see right now is that more and more Republicans are saying that, yes, we need border enforcement, but we also need to create a guest-worker program that works at the same time.''
Mr. Labrador has a bill that would allow foreign students with advanced degrees in certain high-tech and science fields to be immediately eligible for a green card if they are offered a job here.
Immigration, one of the country's most incendiary policy issues, has long been a painful thorn for Republicans, who have sought to balance a desire to attract Hispanics to the party with the powerful antipathy toward illegal immigration among some voters that has animated every political race of the last decade.
Aware of those pitfalls, Republicans new to the Hill are thinking small.
''I think there's is some low-hanging fruit on the immigration debate,'' said Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican and conservative favorite. The son of Cuban immigrants, he supports a visa program for some high-skilled workers and a limited one for agricultural workers and some students who came into the country illegally as children.
Without question, most House Republicans, including freshmen, have rallied behind bills to deter illegal immigration and made public statements that suggest their views are not open for interpretation or negotiation. Representative Mo Brooks, for instance, recently told a television reporter back home in Alabama that when it came to illegal immigrants, ''as your congressman on the House floor, I will do anything short of shooting them.''
But members are increasingly supporting limited immigration measures that center on a discrete issue, like shortening the green card process, which can now take years, for science and math Ph.D. candidates who wish to teach or work in the United States. The limited number of green cards for such professionals, and country quotas, has caused a backlog of them trying to enter the United States, with the majority from India or China.
''I just thought this was something that should be a little less controversial and have bipartisan support,'' Mr. Labrador said of his bill. ''One of the most surprising things is that some of the freshmen are interested in talking about immigration in a positive way.''
In Arkansas, illegal immigration remains a hot-button issue, and Mr. Griffin supports tough border control. However, math and science professionals ''are not people who snuck over in the middle of the night and crept over to a school and got a degree,'' he said.
Officials at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock have leaned on lawmakers like Mr. Griffin for years about the problem. ''To increase entrepreneurs, we need sufficient number of people with science and math backgrounds,'' said Michael Gealt, the dean of the university's College of Science and Mathematics, where the doctoral program is 70 percent to 80 percent foreign students.
Immigration politics, he said, have complicated his efforts. ''It has been my observation,'' Mr. Gealt said, ''that it is hard for lawmakers to differentiate between problems of people coming across the border and people coming for jobs where we absolutely need their expertise.''
There are also bills to address illegal immigration that some conservative Republicans oppose. A high-profile measure that would require private businesses to use a federal program that checks the immigration status of all job applicants recently cleared the House Judiciary Committee, but has since stalled because too many members, pressured by agricultural companies and other business groups, have reservations.
''I think you have got to be careful to force it on people,'' said Mr. Schilling of Illinois, who said ''it might start out with a good intent, but the next thing you know, it's something totally different.''
Then there are members who simply face a new demographic reality, where many voters, including potential new Republicans, are Hispanic.
''I am troubled by the demonization of immigrants, legal or illegal, in our party,'' said Representative Blake Farenthold, who represents a South Texas district and is a member of the bipartisan House Border Caucus. ''We've got a country that was built on immigrants and immigration, and we've kind of lost sight of that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mike Lee is working on a bill to provide residential visas to foreign home buyers who invest at least $500,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representative Tim Griffin, left, said science professionals ''are not people who snuck over in the middle of the night.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: TIM GRIFFIN (88%); MIKE LEE (73%); BOBBY SCHILLING (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); RAUL LABRADOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1337 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Leader Picked for Review Of U.S. Loans on Energy

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House directed a well-known businessman on Friday to conduct an independent review of government loans to energy companies, as House Republicans announced they would consider subpoenaing records related to a 2009 loan to a California manufacturer of solar-energy equipment that is now bankrupt.
In enlisting Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former executive who helped the Bush and Obama administrations rescue the financial system, the White House indicated some concern that it needed to get out ahead of the Congressional investigation into the loan portfolio of the Department of Energy and, in particular, the half-billion-dollar loan to the California manufacturer, Solyndra. 
But officials also indicated that the White House would oppose any subpoena of additional internal records related to Solyndra. The administration has given more than 70,000 documents to Republicans investigating what they characterize as the first scandal related to the economic-stimulus package early in the Obama administration.
The White House contends that those documents show that the decisions related to Solyndra and other loan recipients were based on merit and made by nonpolitical career staff members following proper procedures.
In a statement, the White House chief of staff, William M. Daley, said Mr. Allison would analyze ''the current state of the Department of Energy loan portfolio, focusing on future loan monitoring and management.'' Mr. Allison is to issue a public evaluation and any recommendations in 60 days and can bring in outside experts to help him.
Mr. Daley said Mr. Allison was chosen not only for his resume, but because ''he is tough, always tells it like it is.''
Mr. Allison, a former president of Merrill Lynch and former chief executive of the insurance company TIAA-CREF, was tapped by the Bush administration in September 2008, with the financial sector near collapse, to lead the mortgage-finance giant Fannie Mae when it was forced into a government conservatorship. In 2009, he was nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate to be assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability and to oversee the bank bailout, the Troubled Asset Relief Program. He left in September 2010 when it had become evident that big banks would repay their loans, with interest.
Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Daley, in his statement, stressed that the president remained committed to government investments in clean energy, to create jobs and to compete with foreign rivals.
''And while we continue to take steps to make sure the United States remains competitive in the 21st century energy economy, we must also ensure that we are strong stewards of taxpayer dollars,'' Mr. Daley said.
The Energy Department program comprises 40 projects worth $36 billion, including guarantees for large nuclear-power loans and for development of electric vehicles.
Scrutiny has focused on a portfolio with a total loan value of about $16 billion that relates to 28 renewable-energy projects at companies engaged in biofuels, wind farms, battery storage, solar energy generation and solar-panel manufacturing like Solyndra was trying before it declared bankruptcy in September. The company, which received $528 million, is also under investigation for possible fraud by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
On Friday the leaders of the Republican-controlled House Energy and Commerce Committee -- Representatives Fred Upton of Michigan, the chairman, and Cliff Stearns of Florida, the chairman of the oversight subcommittee -- announced that the committee would meet on Thursday to vote on whether to subpoena internal White House communications related to the Solyndra loan and its restructuring in 2010.
The Republican majority on the committee has been seeking evidence that the White House ordered the Energy Department to approve the loan guarantee to Solyndra, but so far it has mostly found expressions of intense interest from the White House over the timing of the approval.
Specifically, the committee is now seeking communications from the start of the administration involving some of Mr. Obama's closest advisers. While the White House has not yet tried to exercise executive privilege to withhold material, any subpoenas could prompt a legal showdown with Republicans.
''Subpoenaing the White House is a serious step that, unfortunately, appears to be necessary in light of the Obama administration's stonewall on Solyndra,'' Mr. Upton and Mr. Stearns said in a joint statement.
The White House said it stood by an Oct. 14 letter to the two lawmakers from one of Mr. Obama's lawyers, Kathryn H. Ruemmler. She wrote that the White House, the Energy and Treasury Departments and the budget office had taken part in nine briefings to Congressional staff, testified at hearings and produced more than 70,000 pages of documents with nothing to indicate ''the White House intervened in the Solyndra loan guarantee to benefit a campaign contributor.''
Stopping short of an invocation of executive privilege, Ms. Ruemmler said the committee's request for more material ''implicates longstanding and significant institutional Executive Branch confidentiality interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); SCANDALS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HERBERT M ALLISON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1338 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Labour Party Leader Set to Win Ireland's Presidential Election

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS DALBY

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- Michael D. Higgins, a veteran politician and author, was on course Friday to score a come-from-behind win in the race for president of the Irish Republic as his main rivals conceded defeat before the final tallies were counted. 
Mr. Higgins secured nearly 40 percent of votes after the first round of counting, with a lead over his rivals that analysts considered unassailable. His main contenders were Sean Gallagher, an independent who had been expected to win, and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein.
Mr. Gallagher had nearly 29 percent of the votes in the preliminary tally and Mr. McGuinness about 14 percent.
The formal result in the battle for the largely ceremonial post is not expected until early Saturday. The election has attracted special attention abroad because of the candidacy of Mr. McGuinness, a former leader of the Irish Republican Army who has disavowed the violence of the past. Sinn Fein party strategists had hoped the election would increase its support by reinforcing its status as the main alternative to the southern establishment parties.
Ireland's presidential electoral system is based on proportional representation, with voters able to rank several candidates by order of preference. The weakest candidates are eliminated first; several rounds of counting are then required to assign the votes of the eliminated candidates to those still in the running.
The preliminary results Friday recorded first preference votes.
Mr. Higgins is the president of the Labour Party, the junior partner in the government coalition. Fine Gael, the senior government party, performed badly; its candidate Gay Mitchell managed to win only 6.4 percent of first-preference votes cast despite his party's continued popularity since it was elected in February. It was unclear if the performance was in part a reflection of people's unhappiness with government austerity measures.
Mr. Gallagher had been favored to win the presidential election until a televised debate on Monday in which Mr. McGuinness undermined his status as an independent. Mr. Gallagher had been an official with the Fianna Fail party until January but has since tried to distance himself from the party, which lost its hold on power in February amid the country's economic troubles.
Mr. Higgins, 70, has been an advocate for human rights across the world and has been critical of United States' foreign policy, particularly under President Ronald Reagan. He is highly regarded as a poet, author and broadcaster and has served in Parliament since 1981.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Higgins won 40 percent of the vote in first count. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHAL MCNAUGHTON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POETRY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (83%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%) IRELAND (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1339 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: A Spotlight Now Shines On Italy

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART. 
The Your Money column by Ron Lieber appeared in Thursday's paper. It can be found online at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

 BODY:
It finally dawned on me this week that the value of my retirement account might depend on Silvio Berlusconi.
You know Mr. Berlusconi. He is the billionaire prime minister of Italy who not only owns much of the Italian media but also provides them with ample material through his escapades. By his count, Mr. Berlusconi has survived 577 police interrogations and 2,500 court appearances related to innumerable legal and political scandals, not to mention enough suspected sexual adventures to top Hugh Hefner.
And often the adventures and scandals have overlapped. Last year, he was accused of intervening with the police in Milan to obtain the release from prison of a 17-year-old prostitute charged with theft, who said she'd participated in orgies with the prime minister at private villas. 
This might have remained diverting tabloid fodder for most people outside of Italy, but this week the country moved to center stage in the European debt crisis, pushing Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain at least temporarily into the wings and allowing Mr. Berlusconi to assume what seems to be his natural place, which is in the spotlight. On his 75-year-old shoulders rests the task of shoring up Italy's finances so that the European Central Bank buys more Italian sovereign debt, to gain French and German support for a larger bailout fund to protect Italy's banks, and to keep Italy from becoming another Greece and plunging the world into an even more devastating financial crisis.
This remains the case even after the latest effort by European heads of state to put the crisis behind it. Nothing they said could change the fact that Italy has $2.6 trillion in sovereign debt outstanding, the fourth-largest debt in the world after the United States, Japan and Germany. Much of this has to be rolled over -- $54 billion in February 2012 alone, according to a Goldman Sachs report. Italy is the world's eighth-largest economy. Both Moody's and Standard & Poor's recently downgraded Italy's debt ratings and warned of more to come, pushing up borrowing costs and widening credit spreads.
Greece's debt is modest by comparison, and the fierce effort waged by European banks to avoid a huge write-down on the value of their Greek loans was less about Greece then about setting a precedent that could extend to Italy and other heavily indebted countries. Outside of Italy, French banks have the biggest exposure to Italian sovereign debt -- over $500 billion, according to Goldman Sachs. And who knows what institutions (including American ones) insured all that debt?
Although markets keep looking for a quick fix to Europe's problems, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has rightly said that solving the crisis will be a lengthy process. A critical element is getting Italy's financial house in order, which includes balancing its budget and spurring growth so that tax revenue grows and borrowing costs stay low.
In August, Mr. Berlusconi promised ambitious reforms to get the European Central Bank to buy Italian debt. Among them were raising the retirement age, raising taxes on the wealthy and opening up the professions to more competition. By last Sunday, as European leaders prepared for a critical meeting on the debt crisis scheduled for Wednesday, Mr. Berlusconi had accomplished none of that.
Perhaps that shouldn't have been much of a surprise. However reasonable in the abstract, the reforms go to the heart of the Italian way of life, which should be obvious to anyone who has whiled away a few hours in one of Italy's picturesque Renaissance squares watching Italians leisurely sipping cappuccinos. Although Italy has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe (7.9 percent as of August), that's because so many people aren't looking for jobs. Only 57 percent of people ages 15 to 64 were employed in 2010, one of the lowest rates in the world.
Whatever the official retirement age (60 for women, 65 for men), under Italy's complex retirement laws anyone qualifies for a pension after 40 years of contributions, and thanks to earlier and more generous programs, many retire even sooner -- over half a million Italians retired before age 50, according to a small business group report released this week.
With this week's deadline for Italy's reform measures looming, Ms. Merkel and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France took Mr. Berlusconi to the woodshed. You can imagine the chill in the room after Mr. Berlusconi was captured on a wiretapped phone conversation just weeks earlier describing Ms. Merkel's physical appearance in terms so vulgar that not even most Italian tabloids printed them (although they were widely disseminated on the Internet). Asked at a televised press conference this weekend whether the French and German leaders were reassured that Mr. Berlusconi would carry out the latest promised reforms, Ms. Merkel turned to Mr. Sarkozy, he looked back with an impish grin, Ms. Merkel grinned in return and the room burst into laughter.
In Italy this was taken as an affront to the national character. Milan's Il Giornale newspaper compared Mr. Sarkozy's ''smirk'' to the head butt delivered to the Italian soccer player Marco Materazzi by Zinedine Zidane of France in the 2006 World Cup final -- practically fighting words in soccer-obsessed Italy. Even opposition politicians rallied to Mr. Berlusconi's defense. ''No one is authorized to ridicule Italy,'' Pier Ferdinando Casini said. ''I didn't like Sarkozy's sarcastic smile.''
The heated reaction is about much more than a few grins at a press conference. I spoke this week to Domenico Fanuele, managing director for Italy at the law firm Shearman & Sterling, who said, ''Italians are losing their sovereignty. Someone else is telling us what we have to do, and within a certain time frame, and this has nothing to do with the democratic process within Italy. This is something that is being imposed from outside. On the one hand, it injects some sanity and rigor and discipline into the system. On the other hand, it's frightening, because it weakens the democratic process.''
''Only the English language has a word for Berlusconi: 'strong-minded,' '' Mr. Fanuele said. ''There is no such word in Italian. Italian politics is very subtle. Corriere della Sera, a very serious, conservative newspaper, asked Berlusconi to step aside, which was so open and direct. I've never seen this in my life.''
Mr. Berlusconi flatly rejected calls that he resign and denied reports this week that he had agreed to do so in order to get his political allies to agree to the proposed reforms. Whatever his fate, the debate has made clear that what began as an economic crisis for the European Union has inevitably become a political one. Out of the wreckage of World War II, Europe forged an economic and monetary union while trying to maintain the political sovereignty of its countries. ''There's a fundamental problem with the structure of the European Union and its leadership,'' Jim O'Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said. ''The problem is that European actors don't act in the interest of Europe. They all act in their own domestic political interests. It looks as though the degree of stress has finally brought them to the table.''
Mr. Berlusconi arrived at the summit meeting on Wednesday carrying a new letter of intent, one that seemed just as vague about how he would enact them as his earlier promises. American and European markets continue to gyrate on every twist and turn in Europe, and this time rallied strongly on the latest efforts to contain the crisis, easing at least some of the immediate pressure on Mr. Berlusconi. ''I hope Italy doesn't stay in the eye of the storm for very long,'' Mr. Fanuele remarked.
Mr. Berlusconi's track record doesn't offer much encouragement, but let's hope he finally delivers and Mr. Fanuele gets his wish. If not, as Goldman Sachs noted in a recent report, the high exposure of European banks to Italy ''suggests the potential for financial contagion could be large.''
Online Correction: October 28, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this column misstated where Italy stands among countries when ranked by their sovereign debt. It has the fourth-highest amount (behind the United States, Japan and Germany), not the third-highest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. If his nation follows Greece into a debt crisis, financial disaster could ensue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REMO CASILLI/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); POLITICS (72%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); PROSTITUTION (54%); LARCENY & THEFT (54%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (54%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (92%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (98%); GREECE (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1340 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words

PERSON: William A. Niskanen 

HEADLINE: William A. Niskanen, 78, a Blunt Libertarian Economist

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
William A. Niskanen, an economist who was dismissed by the Ford Motor Company after bluntly opposing the company's embrace of trade protection, and who later served as a member of President Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 78.
His death, of a stroke, was announced by the Cato Institute, the libertarian research organization, where he had been chairman for 23 years before stepping down in 2008. 
Mr. Niskanen (pronounced nis-CAN-en) had a long career as an economist, both in and out of government. He taught at the University of California at both Berkeley and Los Angeles, worked as a defense analyst at the RAND Corporation and held prominent positions at the Office of Management and Budget, where he was assistant director, and at the Defense Department, where he was the director of special studies for the secretary of defense.
Mr. Niskanen, who stood 6-foot-4, was rarely one to tailor his message to his audience. A few years after joining Ford in 1975 and becoming its chief economist, he was critical of the company when it ended its longtime commitment to free trade and pushed for restrictions on Japanese imports. Mr. Niskanen contended that the real challenge to the domestic auto industry came not from Japan, but from the inability of American carmakers to cater to the public's desire for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. He also thought it inappropriate for corporations to ask Washington for breaks.
''A common commitment to refrain from special favors,'' he wrote in a memo at the time, ''serves the same economic function as a common commitment to refrain from stealing.''
His criticism did not sit well with Ford and it fired him.
In 1984, while at the Council of Economic Advisers, he caused a stir when, in a speech before a group called Women in Government Relations, he suggested that one reason men were often paid more than women in comparable jobs was because women interrupted their careers to raise children. Walter F. Mondale, then the Democratic presidential nominee, leapt on the comments and said they reflected the Reagan administration's attitude toward women. A White House spokesman said Mr. Niskanen had expressed his own views, not those of the administration.
William Arthur Niskanen was born on March 13, 1933, in Bend, Ore., and earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, where he studied under Milton Friedman, the free-marketeer and Nobel laureate.
Mr. Niskanen, who lived in Washington, is survived by his wife, Kathryn Washburn, and three daughters; Lia Niskanen of Brooklyn, Pamela Niskanen of West Winfield, N.Y., and Jaime Brunetti of Berkeley, Calif.
Mr. Niskanen's essays are collected in ''Bureaucracy and Public Economics'' and ''Reflections of a Political Economist: Selected Articles on Government Policies and Political Processes.'' He also wrote a memoir, ''Reaganonomics: An Insider's Account of the Policies and the People,'' an occasionally critical look at his time at the White House. In it, he called Donald Regan, a Treasury secretary and chief of staff under Reagan, ''a tower of jelly.''
He praised Mr. Reagan for vision and charisma, but lamented that as president he had been unable to curtail federal spending.
''In the end,'' Mr. Niskanen wrote, ''there was no Reagan revolution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute, in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE CATO INSTITUTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); DEATHS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (65%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%); RAND CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

RONALD REAGAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BEND, OR, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1341 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SYRIAN SECURITY KILLS 40
AT ANTIGOVERNMENT PROTESTS
Syrian security forces killed at least 40 people during antigovernment demonstrations across the country, according to human rights activists, as the government of President Bashar al-Assad intensified a brutal military crackdown that has failed over eight months to extinguish a popular uprising. Page A4
GRIM TIDINGS FROM SARKOZY 
France's financial system has been shaken by its heavy exposure to debt-ridden Greece. President Nicholas Sarkozy warned that France's new commitments under the plan to rescue Greece and the euro would require greater economic discipline. Page A6
PROTESTERS CLOG CATHEDRAL
Officials at St. Paul's Cathedral in London said that they would go to court to force the removal of hundreds of protesters who have camped outside the cathedral for two weeks, demonstrating against economic inequality and corporate greed. Page A7
TUNISIA ROILED BY ELECTION
Protesters angered by a local outcome in Tunisia's first free election burned a central government building in the town of Sidi Bouzid, which is widely regarded as the birthplace of the Arab Spring. Page A8
National
GOVERNMENT REPORT FINDS
RISE IN HOMELESS VETERANS
Homeless veterans are most likely to be middle-age white men with a disability and younger veterans are more than twice as likely to be homeless than non-veterans in the same age group. And California has the most homeless veterans of any state, according to a government report. Page A11
ENFORCING THE RULES
At the most recent Republican debate in Las Vegas, Mitt Romney inadvertently cast himself as the enforcer when he tried mightily to ensure that all the candidates received their allotted response time. Political Memo. Page A12
CAIN ANTICS RAISE CONCERNS
Herman Cain is becoming known for retreating after provocative statements made in a shoot-from-the-hip speaking style, which raises questions about his grasp of issues and his readiness for office. Page A12
New York
CONCERNS ABOUT DIVERSITY
FADE AT OCCUPY WALL STREET
As the Occupy Wall Street protests have spread and grown, critics have pointed to the visible scarcity of blacks and other minorities in the protesters' ranks. But that reality has begun to change. Page A18
Business
LOOKING AT BRITISH PLANS
FOR LAW FIRMS TO SELL STAKES
England began to allow groups other than lawyers to own and control law practices, and some of the country's major retailers have begun offering legal services in their stores and online. Page B1
ANIME IN ONLINE STREAMING
As Internet streaming services like Hulu grapple with Hollywood studios and TV networks for the rights for expensive prime-time series, the services have found easy-to-get content in anime and other niche foreign programming. Page B1
SAAB GETS REPRIEVE
Saab Automobile said that it had won a reprieve from collapse after two Chinese carmakers agreed in principle to buy the ailing Swedish automaker before it faced possible liquidation. Page B3
Sports
SPAIN'S SOCCER UNDERDOGS
ARE IN A SHINING MOMENT
After a come-from-behind 3-2 victory over Real Sociedad, Levante, with a record of seven victories, no losses and two draws, remains in first place in La Liga for the first time in its 102-year history, outmaneuvering Real Madrid and Barcelona. Page B11
Arts
SITTING ON THE HIGH LINE
WATCHING ACTORS PASS BY
''SeeWatchLook,'' is a production that offers snapshots of street life and is unfolding on weekends this month with the High Line benches serving as amphitheater seating. Some recent onlookers at first seemed to be unaware that they were watching a show, writes Patrick Healy. Page C1
DEAD SEA SCROLLS EXHIBIT
Few artifacts at the provocative new exhibition at Discovery Times Square, ''The Dead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Biblical Times,'' will inspire aesthetic wonder. Pottery, silver coins, iron arrowheads, limestone pitchers, scraps of parchment -- the understated result is almost jarring, writes Edward Rothstein. Page C1
OP-ED
Charles M. Blow PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (94%); VETERANS (91%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (91%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (84%); STREAMING MEDIA (83%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (65%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); RETAILERS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (72%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); GREECE (93%); TUNISIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1342 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: What You Thought About 'Why I Left India'

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: An India Ink essay unleashes a torrent of emotion and comment. 

 BODY:
India Ink's recent first-person essay, Why I Left India (Again) unleashed an explosion of comment and discussion on our pages, on Facebook, Twitter and outside blogs. It also inspired a fictional parody, dinner party arguments in Manhattan, an Asia Society round up, and a psychological analysis from a mental health professional.
In the piece, a software engineer who had lived in the United States for more than a decade returns to India, to find that he can't stand what he turns into:

"Perhaps 3,000 years of history have made us Indians a little too familiar with one another for our own good. We've perfected Malcolm Gladwell's "blink" - the reflexive, addictive and tragically accurate placement of other Indians into bullock carts, scooters, airplanes and who knows what else. These issues exist in all countries, but in India, I could see the bigotry in high fidelity and hear the stereotypes in surround-sound - partly because it is worse in India, mostly because I am Indian," Sumedh Mungee wrote.
Readers responded with passionate views on everything from the realities of life in developing nations, the world's changing economic balance and the need to look inward for happiness.
Many readers called Mr. Mungee "honest," and shared his views. "I understand where the author is coming from. After living in the U.S. for 12-plus years, India, the land of my childhood, has become my heritage but not home," said one reader from San Diego.
Several "repats" who had returned to the United States expressed respect for his candor, having gone through similar geographic and emotional journeys themselves.
And other readers dismissed him. "Self-indulgent hogwash," said one New York Times reader, S.S. from India.
Many of the rebuttals came from people who returned to India and opted to stay, or never left.
"I'm not much of a patriot," BziB, a blogger from Mumbai, wrote. But despite traveling the world and seeing potholed-free roads and "polite, friendly people," BziB has decided to stay in India "because I want to change things." Author Chetan Baghat, himself a returned NRI , added a thoughtful "different perspective" on his blog.
From the hundreds of tweets and comments, some common themes emerged.
1. To live in India, you need to be tougher than you do in the United States:
"My wife is an American citizen (Indian origin) who lives/works in NYC. I live/work in India. We both agree it was a 'cry baby' piece," Derek O'Brien, a member of Parliament from Bengal, said through Twitter.
"People are lot nicer to each other in most places" in the United States, said Mahesh, a reader from Bangalore.
2. India demands introspection, whether you are ready for it or not.
"India doesn't make you become anything. India simply reveals who you already are," said Jo Chopra McGowen, a reader from Dehradun.
3. There are other ways to deal with difficulties you face:
"It is possible to live in India without being forced to behave badly," concluded Naven Kabra in response to a post on Quora about the piece, which asked, "Would these issues apply to most people in this situation?"
Many readers echoed the sentiment of Mitra, one of India Ink's most vocal readers. "I still fail to understand the author, though! What prevented him from volunteering for the many NGO's in Bangalore that are working for the poor and the underprivileged in the weekend? What prevented him from joining Indian liberals in a fight for making India a more equal society?"
And finally, some felt that by printing the essay, the New York Times showed an anti-Indian bias. The newspaper is "encouraging and promoting op-ed columnists with an India-bashing mentality," one blogger wrote. (For the record, we here at India Ink love India. That's why we're here).
In many cases, what started as a discussion about which country was better to live in quickly evolved into a discussion about employers' responsibilities for the people they hire to work in their homes. Here, talk was about changing ideas.
When Mr. Baghat tried to enroll the 18-year-old daughter of his household help into classes, his mother and mother-in-law objected, he said. "They felt I was the classic NRI idiot, returned from abroad and now trying to push his modern reform agenda," he said.
He said he has persevered. "On Diwali day, all of us will go see 'Ra.One' (a Hindi superhero movie) together at a multiplex," Mr. Baghat wrote. "My driver will also get tickets for his family to watch it near his house. Altogether, 17 of us will watch the movie. That is what is fun about India. I am fortunate I am able to make a difference to these people's lives - without it costing me that much."
The overwhelming response prompted the original author, Mr. Mungee to pick up his pen again, albeit briefly, and post "While I'm Still Alive" on his own blog. He writes:
"I am happy that so many feel India makes them more empathetic and connected with the real world. I had a different, less noble reaction-I was learning, like so many who walk past the invisible beggar every day, to plug in my earphones and tune out of reality.
Sometimes you fight, sometimes you watch, and sometimes you are the status quo you wish to destroy."

        
Why I Left India (Again)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WRITERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%) Non Resident Indian; patriotism; Gladwell, Malcolm; Indian-Americans; New York Times; India

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: Gladwell, Malcolm

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MUMBAI, INDIA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (59%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1343 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Second Look

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the president's weekly address and happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
The White House has brought in a well-known businessman to review all government loans to energy companies, Jackie Calmes reports. News of the audit comes as House Republicans announced they will consider subpoenaing the Department of Energy's loan portfolio and investigating the half-billion-dollar loan to Solyndra.

        
Many Republican freshmen in Congress are advocating for immigration policy to be changed in bite-size pieces that could help bring order to the immigration system, maintain a strong push for better federal border security and help redefine their party's increasingly anti-immigration image. As election season gears up, leading Republicans are warning that their party's image among Hispanics is being significantly damaged, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.

        
Herman Cain is becoming known for walking back provocative statements, which raises questions about his grasp of issues and his readiness for office, Trip Gabriel reports. Signs are mounting that Republican primary voters may not be so forgiving of his revisionism on the issue of abortion.

        
The office of the Justice Department's inspector general on Friday retracted its much-publicized claim that the agency had spent $16 per breakfast muffin at a conference, Charlie Savage reports. And it expressed regret for the "significant negative publicity" for the department and for the hotel that hosted the meeting that resulted from the erroneous finding in a report last month.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama used a new economic report to confirm a rising national fear -- the growing divide between the earnings of the top one percent of Americans and the income of the average middle-class family. "Now, in this country, we don't begrudge anyone's wealth or success -- we encourage it," he said in his weekly address. "But America is better off when everyone has had the chance to get ahead -- not just those at the top of the income scale." His attempts to restore a sense of security to middle-class Americans are illustrated in a set of proposals that he claims will add jobs to the economy and cut taxes for families and small businesses. "The truth is, we can no longer wait for Congress to do its job," he said. "If we want to rebuild an economy where every American has the chance to get ahead, we need every American to get involved. That's how real change has always happened, and that's how it'll happen today."
Around the Web

        
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is hoping to get the conservative media to back him as the "true" conservative candidate, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama will greet trick-or-treaters on Saturday at the North Portico of the White House, which will be lit orange for the occasion.

        
The 36thannual Marine Corps Marathon will run through Northern Virginia and Washington on Sunday.

        
The Early Word: Networking
        
The Early Word: Anxiety
        
The Early Word: Infiltration
        
The Early Word: Piecemeal
        
The Early Word: Talk and Tone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); SUBPOENAS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); HALLOWEEN (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (71%); RICK PERRY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HERMAN CAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011



1344 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, October 30

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The economy and the presidential race take center stage on the Sunday shows. 

 BODY:
For frequent Sunday show viewers, this should sound familiar: The struggling economy and the 2012 presidential race are both on the menu this week.
Testing out his new "we can't wait" (for Congress to act) slogan, President Obama announced policies last week to grant relief to college graduates and homeowners. David Axelrod, senior strategist on Mr. Obama's re-election campaign, will visit CNN's "State of the Union" to talk about how the economy will factor into the race. Then, Representative Ron Paul of Texas speaks about his own bid for the presidency.
NBC's "Meet the Press" features the White House senior adviser David Plouffe discussing Mr. Obama's changes for the student loan and housing refinance programs. Later, Walter Isaacson, author of the new biography on Steve Jobs, joins the political roundtable to talk about innovation in a struggling economy.
Can Michele Bachmann recapture the momentum she lost after her win in the Iowa straw poll in August? She's hoping her economic plan can offer her campaign a lift, and she'll talk about it on ABC's "This Week." Also on the show: Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft and co-chairman of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. He will share his views on taxing the rich and providing international aid in a struggling economy, as well as reflect on his relationship with his competitor, Mr. Jobs.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas will be on "Fox News Sunday," and Herman Cain joins CBS's "Face the Nation."
Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, joins Bloomberg's "Political Capital."
C-Span's "Newsmakers" features Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, talking about the administration's plans for the federal housing refinance program.
Shaun Donovan, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, weighs in on the housing market crisis on TV One's "Washington Watch."
Univision's "Al Punto" hosts Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the House minority whip, and Representative Luis Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, who will discuss Congress, the economy and immigration policy. Then, Adolfo Franco, a Republican strategist who was an adviser to Senator John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, will talk about the Republican presidential primaries.
Mr. Franco joins Telemundo's "Enfoque," a Spanish-language public affairs show, to talk about the race. Also on the show will be Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York, discussing the potential impact of Mr. Obama's jobs proposals and immigration policy.
Hungry for more? For those who still haven't selected a Halloween costume, allow Ben Schott and Tad Low to make a few recommendations.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Aug. 28
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, August 21
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 27
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu: Jan. 2
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu: Dec. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); POLITICS (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%); HALLOWEEN (50%); CITIES (50%) sunday shows; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RON PAUL (57%); JOSE E SERRANO (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); STENY HOYER (57%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (57%); RICK PERRY (56%); BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1345 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Speechmaking Call and Response at Alabama Straw Poll

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Herman Cain was the sole candidate to address several hundred activists, many of them Ron Paul supporters, and many highly participatory. 

 BODY:
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -- Maybe you've heard: there was another obscure straw poll held in America, and a legion of well-organized Ron Paul supporters turned out. 
They placed their literature on the seats of the convention center named for a legendary University of Alabama football coach, and they set out the coolest T-shirts and stickers for sale. 
The straw poll was organized by the West Alabama Republican Assembly, part of a national grassroots movement that calls itself "the Republican wing of the Republican party.'' If you guessed there was no table with Mitt Romney buttons, that is correct. 
Herman Cain was the sole candidate to address the several hundred activists, during a campaign swing through the state, but it still seemed as if he were daring to stick his hand into the lion's teeth of the Ron Paul movement. "Our economy is on life support,'' Mr. Cain said during his standard speech, "and the reason this economy is on life support ''
"Federal Reserve!'' a woman shouted. There was a burst of applause and a sea of "Ron Paul" blue signs were waved in the air. 
"With all due respect," Mr. Cain told the Fed-loathing supporters of Mr. Paul, "I'm going to give the speech today.''

The crowd burst into surprised laughter over his delivery; he stretched out the words and lowered his already deep voice. "Our biggest domestic issue is not the Federal Reserve," lectured Mr. Cain, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve branch in Kansas City. "It's this economy that's on life support.''
He continued: "Since you brought up the Federal Reserve, I'm going to say this real quick. I do not believe we need to end the Fed but to fix the Fed. That's all I'm going to say about it.''
Mr. Paul's supporters waved their blue signs furiously as scattered boos echoed. 
"Are you going to let me give my speech or not?'' Mr. Cain said. It was the voice of your grandfather telling you to take your elbows off the table and respect your grandmother. 
The crowd applauded. Mr. Cain had won them over. "Thank you very much,'' he said, and began again: "This economy's on life support '' 
It will be noted that in one obscure straw poll on Saturday, in a Southern state with no traditional role in the choosing of a presidential nominee, Herman Cain won 50.7 percent of the 347 votes cast. Ron Paul came in second with 45 percent. 

        
Tea Party Leaders Look to Bachmann, Paul and Perry
        
'Hobos' For Paul
        
Ron Paul Rallies Supporters
        
The Scene in Ames
        
2008: Romney's Real Test

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%) Alabama; Herman Cain; ron paul; straw polls; Cain, Herman; Paul, Ron; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (58%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (94%); HERMAN CAIN (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Cain, Herman; Paul, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (90%) ALABAMA, USA (98%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1346 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Customs Tuned to the Times

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS
ON the prowl for the next big thing in the automotive aftermarket, about 100,000 commercial buyers, shop owners and industry executives will descend on the convention center here for the annual Specialty Equipment Market Association trade show, set for Nov. 1-5.
While doing their best to ignore the temptations of Las Vegas, they will be angling for a glimpse of the near future, trying to divine the trends that will define their businesses in the coming year. 
Some, then, are sure to scratch their heads when they discover, among a brigade of customized 2012 Ford Motor Company models in the automaker's huge display area, what appears to be a 1960s Bronco, a welterweight utility vehicle largely forgotten and long out of production.
This Bronco, built by Icon 4x4 of Van Nuys Calif., is not a restoration project, and it is far more than a faithful replica. Icon, which produces modern re-creations of classic S.U.V.'s like the Toyota FJ-series Land Cruiser and Jeep CJ, will introduce its five-star remake of the Nixon-era Bronco here, ideally suited to well-heeled buyers with an obsessive devotion to detail.
The SEMA show, as it is known, has long reveled in Detroit's muscular past, usually with an excess of exuberance. But the character of the event, originally geared to the racing and customizer markets, has evolved to serve as a showcase for design projects by automakers.
Vendors' exhibits, some 2,000 in all, are still spread across a sole-trying amount of floor -- more than three million square feet of display space to be walked -- but it is no longer the sparkly, bodacious affair of the boom years. The show's provocatively dressed ladies are a memory, and an industry once growing at kudzu speed on the popularity of chest-high wheels, license-plate televisions and under-vehicle disco lighting seems to have deflated with the housing bubble.
So Icon's brilliantly executed and lavishly equipped Bronco doppelganger -- its $159,000 price is a clue to its credentials -- does not drip with chrome. The truck is sharp, but does not broadcast its (or its owner's) richness. It takes a second look to absorb its extraordinary craftsmanship.
The Icon Bronco is powered by a 412-horsepower version of Ford's latest 5-liter V-8, with a 5-speed manual or 4-speed automatic, disc brakes and a state-of-the-art suspension system. Every panel has been precisely re-engineered in higher-quality corrosion-resistant materials.
Mr. Ward said Icon's goal in re-envisioning the Bronco was to revisit, in a respectful way, the design heritage of a classic 4x4 with the benefit of a modern chassis.
The idea for doing the Bronco came from Mr. Ward's past association with Jim Farley, a Ford group vice president. Mr. Farley was previously at Toyota, where the men worked on Icon's FJ Land Cruiser project.
The Bronco project eventually involved Camilo Pardo, designer of the revived Ford GT, and Nike, the athletic equipment maker. Mr. Ward's professional relationships at Nike led to invaluable 3-D design and parts-rendering support.
''We use a lot of materials from modern architecture, aircraft and aerospace applications,'' Mr. Ward said. He pointed to the tempered-glass side windows, which he said were from skyscrapers; Bell & Ross instruments; and LearJet sun visors as examples. The Icon Bronco uses a sound-deadening headliner material found in Aston Martins.
The attraction of resurrecting sturdy-looking vehicles from the past may partly reflect today's dire economics, and may have spawned a trend that goes a step further. An extreme expression of the low-bling ethic can be seen in the so-called derelict cars that have started to appear alongside the spotless six-figure hot rods.
The derelicts, raw and as-found on the outside but entirely modern under the skin, also acknowledge the growing fervor over ''barn find'' classics, a branch of the shabby-chic mindset that satisfies a yearning for authenticity and originality. And to be sure, there's a ruboff of the rat-rod movement expressed here as well.
Icon's first derelict project was a Frankenstein that sutured the nose of a 1952 De Soto to the rear of a same-year Chrysler Town & Country station wagon. That car's ratty, rust-encrusted exterior was preserved while its innards were replaced with 21st-century components from Chrysler's Mopar Performance parts catalog, including a modern Hemi V-8.
This year, Icon's owner, Jonathan Ward, is bringing a faded green 1952 Chevrolet business coupe for display. Is a trend developing?
''Derelicts? Well, Apolo Anton Ohno, the Olympic speedskater and dancer, will unveil his No Regrets '60s Caddy here,'' said Peter MacGillivray, a SEMA vice president.
The re-creations and derelicts reveal a level of detail that goes into many SEMA project cars. Acres of customs and hot rods will be on view. ''We will have 1,500 vehicles on display this year,'' Mr. MacGillivray said.
''It's the hottest ticket in Vegas,'' he added, stressing that the show was not open to the public.
Ford's display will also house seven Focus models with cosmetic makeovers by outside companies as well as hopped-up Fiestas, Explorers and F-Series pickups. General Motors will emphasize the opportunities to personalize its new Sonic subcompact with projects that feature its Z-spec performance equipment. A pair of customized Cruze compacts will also be displayed. The Chrysler Group promises 30 modified vehicles, representing all of the company's brands, in its exhibit
Hyundai will unveil a 450-horsepower, heavily customized version of its Genesis coupe. One of its more entertaining features is a $35,000 Harman International audio system. Toyota's Lexus division will introduce its 2013 GS 350 sedan with the F Sport package, and the company's display area will include a handful of other models modified by custom shops.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REPLICANT: Looking like a vintage Ford Bronco, Icon's latest project is actually a re-creation.
STARRING ROLES: Small cars will be prominent in automakers' displays at the SEMA trade show. Top, Chevy will have customized versions of the new Sonic. Above, a Ford Focus by 3dCarbon.(AU1)
 TRENDING: The ''derelict'' label appears fitting for this 1952 Chrysler-De Soto mash-up, but in factthere's a modern suspension underneath and a current Hemi V-8 providing the horsepower.(AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE AFTERMARKET (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (63%); HOUSING BUBBLE (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: SPECIALTY EQUIPMENT MARKET ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1347 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Handling High Closing Costs

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
WHEN you add everything up, closing costs can increase the price of a home by as much as $10,000, sometimes more.
Those who are cash-poor can ask relatives for help. But some lenders advertise another option: If borrowers agree to accept a mortgage interest rate from a quarter to a full percentage point higher than they would ordinarily qualify for, they can receive credit toward their closing costs.
Such mortgages are sometimes called no-closing-cost loans, though the term is misleading. The credit usually covers only fees charged by the mortgage broker or bank, like the loan origination fee, the underwriting expense, and the appraisal, according to Neil Diamond, a mortgage broker in Commack, N.Y. That generally leaves title insurance, mortgage-recording taxes, insurance and escrowed taxes to cover, he said. 
The amount of credit depends on total closing costs and other loan details. A rule of thumb is that for every one-eighth of a point increase in interest rate, borrowers receive a credit worth half a percentage point of the principal amount, said Jason Auerbach, a divisional manager for First Choice Loan Services in Manhattan. On a $400,000 30-year mortgage with a 4.125 percent base rate, the first one-eighth of a point increase would yield a $2,000 credit and so would the second, but the credit for the third would drop to about $400, he said, noting that some lenders set a 5.25 percent ceiling on rates.
With mortgage rates so low, Mr. Auerbach said, interest in ''no-closing-cost'' loans has increased.
While these mortgages can be helpful to some, borrowers should carefully review all the details. ''It's a sales technique,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''It can be positive and negative.''
The main downside, of course, is that the higher rate and monthly payment remain in place through the life of the loan. Therefore, Mr. Diamond said, borrowers must ask themselves what they can really afford.
Mr. Diamond suggests doing a side-by-side comparison of loans with and without the credit. If you were paying around $50 a month extra in interest charges to cover, say, $6,000 in closing costs, it would take you 120 months, or 10 years, before you began to pay more in monthly payments than you were saving on closing costs. So if you stayed in the home for seven to eight years -- the national average in recent years, according to the National Association of Realtors -- you would come out ahead with the higher rate.
But a higher mortgage payment with more going toward interest and less toward principal repayment could lead you to a higher debt-to-income ratio, Mr. Auerbach pointed out. This might affect some borrowers' ability to qualify for the loan, or might leave them with less money for home improvements or purchases after they moved in.
Even so, a ''no-closing-cost'' loan can be useful for anyone who has found a home and does not want to wait to save thousands of dollars more to cover all the closing costs. It also can be worthwhile for ''people who would rather hold onto their money,'' Mr. Diamond said.
Nationwide, total closing costs on a $200,000 mortgage average $4,070, according to a recent survey from Bankrate.com. That represents an 8.8 percent increase over last year, and reflects higher lender fees. New York's closing costs averaged $6,183, the highest in the nation. In New Jersey the average was $4,589; and in Connecticut, $3,843, according to Bankrate.com.
Closing costs can be much higher on more expensive homes. Dianne Scalza, an associate broker with Netter Real Estate on Long Island, says that buyers in the West Islip area, for instance, typically pay $12,000 to $17,000.
Co-op owners may also benefit from the raise-the-rate approach when it comes to refinancing. Because the loan balance does not change, they most likely will not need board approval for a new mortgage, Mr. Auerbach said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1348 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Hunters, Hold That Click

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
ON Gilt.com, where shoppers vie for limited-time discounts on designer brands, a Kate Spade cabana-stripe medium tote bag was recently $169, plus $5.95 shipping. That same day, the bag was on KateSpade.com for $130 with free shipping -- about $45 cheaper.
On HauteLook.com, another so-called ''flash sale'' site, a navy dress by Decode 1.8 was $75, plus $7.95 shipping. But at Overstock.com, the dress cost $55.99 and shipping was free. Savings: $26.96. 
And on the flash sale site RueLaLa.com, leather ballet flats by Born were $49.90, plus $9.95 shipping. Buying the shoes from the shopping site 6pm.com, however, would save about $21.
Flash sale sites, only a few years old, are tremendously popular. American visits to them increased 68 percent in September compared with the same period a year ago, according to Experian Hitwise, an Internet tracking firm, and 314 percent from two years ago.
Such sites enable customers, who are about to enter the busiest shopping period of the year, to score deals on elite brands. Still, one can, with surprising regularity, find some even better deals elsewhere.
That's because flash sale sites generally charge for shipping, have limited return policies (that often include ''restocking'' fees) and take more time than other shopping sites to deliver an order. And because tony brands and retailers are no longer as desperate to unload vast amounts of inventory as they were at the height of the recession, there are fewer jaw-dropping discounts to be had.
''The A-list designer merchandise may be harder to come by,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, a retailing analyst with Forrester Research. Yet ''most people assume they're just getting the best deal on these flash sale sites.''
Flash sales are the highest expression of shopping as competitive sport. To win, you must be among the first customers to put an item into a virtual cart, then commit to buying it minutes later or else watch as it -- poof! -- disappears from the cart. As those precious seconds tick by, there is hardly time to comparison-shop on other Web sites.
But doing so can pay off. It also pays to factor in shipping costs. Consider an Enzo Angiolini Sten boot that was $85 last week on HauteLook. The same boot on Piperlime, a Web site owned by Gap, was a few dollars more: $89. At first glance, HauteLook is the better deal. But Piperlime offers free shipping and returns. HauteLook charged $7.95 for shipping, so the boots ended up costing $92.95. That's $3.95 more than on Piperlime -- and if the boots didn't fit, you would pay extra for a refund.
Another reason things are sometimes cheaper from other types of online stores: frequent coupons and site-wide discounts. This week, a Celine bowler bag on the flash sale site Ideeli.com was $920.99, plus $9.95 shipping. But on the discount designer clothing site Bluefly.com, everything was an extra 10 percent off, making the same Celine bag $900 plus $7.95 shipping -- a savings of about $23.
Those who keep an eye on sales say there are more businesses proffering discount clothing than ever before, which means that no one channel is always tops for bargains. ''It's really hard to get good closeouts nowadays because so many places are fighting for them,'' said Hayley Corwick, who writes the designer sales tracking blog Madison Avenue Spy. ''Now the Web sites are fighting the discounters, who are fighting the flash sale sites.''
Ms. Corwick said she tends to find the best deals in brick-and-mortar stores. ''I always feel that there's nothing as good as an old-fashioned boutique or department store end-of-season sale,'' she said, explaining that returns are easy and that a good salesperson will call a customer when a coveted item is discounted. This is why Ms. Corwick posts salesclerk contact information on her blog. ''Those relationships really count for something,'' she said.
When shopping online, it may make sense to spend a bit more to buy from sites that offer free shipping and returns, like Zappos and Piperlime.
Consumers must also consider how often they buy from a particular site. For example, RueLaLa charges a $9.95 shipping fee, good for as many purchases as you like within 30 days. MyHabit.com is one flash sale site that offers free shipping and returns on certain items.
But some of the sites, including MyHabit, only offer site credit for returns. Gilt, RueLaLa and HauteLook allow customers to request a refund, but for a limited time and for a fee ranging from about $6 to $15. Whether customers pay sales tax depends on state and local laws.
Flash-sale customers can save by Googling a potential purchase to find out if it's being sold elsewhere for less. A fashion search engine like ShopStyle.com can help turn up results and coupon codes more quickly.
Be sure to search big online retailers, like Amazon and eBay, as well as designers' own Web sites. Sometimes you'll discover that only a few sizes are available for less than the flash sale price, but it's worth investigating: recently a Catherine Malandrino silk dress was $65 in some sizes on Yoox.com and $129.90 in other sizes on RueLaLa. A Web browser add-on like InvisibleHand is also useful: it alerts you when a product for which you've searched is cheaper on another Web site.
If browsing for handbags, check a site like eBags: the brands it stocks sometimes sell for less than flash-sale prices. Earlier this year, HauteLook had a Carlos Falchi metallic snake-embossed microfiber tote for $92.50, plus $7.95 shipping. It was simultaneously on eBags for $79.99 and free shipping.
That's a few extra dollars to stash inside that new bag.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PICK A SIZE: A Catherine Malandrino silk dress was on sale in some sizes for $65 at Yoox.com. Other sizes cost $129.90 on RueLaLa.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOOX.COM) (ST10)
JUST LESS: A Celine bag on Ideeli.com was $920.99, plus $9.95 shipping. The bag was on Bluefly.com for $900, plus $7.95 shipping. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BLUEFLY.COM)
 CONSIDER SHIPPING: Leather ballet flats by Born were $49.90, plus $9.95 shipping at RueLaLa.com. At 6pm.com, they were $38.25 and shipped for free. (PHOTOGRAPH BY 6PM.COM) (ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); GROUP BUYING (90%); RETAILERS (78%); WEB SITES (76%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1349 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1962 words

HEADLINE: Step Away From the Computer

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS have been fleeing Manhattan in search of more affordable housing for so long that just about every neighborhood in the other boroughs has been anointed the city's next great destination for bargains.
Despite this well-worn path off the island, however, finding a place to live in some up-and-coming corner of the city can have its challenges.
Buyers looking in Manhattan and in high-demand parts of Brooklyn can find nearly every listing online, including an extensive sales history and details about a property. Open houses are conveniently clustered on Sundays, and subway lines zip hunters from one neighborhood to another.
But buyers searching farther afield will find a more fragmented market. While big brokerages like Corcoran and Prudential Douglas Elliman have opened offices beyond Manhattan and brownstone Brooklyn, small independent agencies still dominate many neighborhoods -- often, family businesses that sons and daughters are being groomed to run. 
Mom-and-pop shops do not always embrace technology with the zeal of their iPad-toting counterparts on the Upper West Side, which means that buyers may have to expend some shoe leather to find properties that may never appear online.
And for house-hunters who have only a vague sense of where they want to live, narrowing down the list of choices to a few favorite neighborhoods can involve working with multiple agents, since a broker who knows Clinton Hill like the back of his hand may be a fish out of water in Canarsie.
''Every neighborhood has its own little brokerage company,'' said Michael P. Carfagna, the founder of MPC Properties in Queens. ''We basically specialize in Jackson Heights.''
Mr. Carfagna, who has lived in Jackson Heights for 25 years, says clients typically come to him through referrals, advertisements on phone booths or listings that appear on the New York Times Web site and his own Web site, mpcproperties.com. Although he does not belong to local real estate associations, which would require him to share listing information with their databases, he does not shy away from digital marketing.
''On Google,'' he said, ''we pop right up if you search for co-ops in Jackson Heights.'' (Indeed, MPC Properties and another neighborhood specialist, Jackson Heights Properties, are among the top results.)
Jackson Heights is known for its ethnic diversity, buildings with large interior gardens and an easy commute to Manhattan compared with other Queens neighborhoods. But it remains a bit under the radar, even among buyers looking for affordable housing.
Jason Andrews and his wife, Florence Cabre-Andrews, said they started seriously considering the area after a detour to escape highway traffic on a trip back to Manhattan from Long Island.
''We ended up driving through Jackson Heights and I thought: 'Why didn't we move here? This is great,' '' Mr. Andrews said. ''I'm American, my wife is French and our daughter is Chinese, so we fit right in.''
Working with Mr. Carfagna, they bought a two-bedroom apartment in Jackson Heights last year for $329,000. They said the agency's deep knowledge of the neighborhood helped them appreciate its charms and avoid properties with potential problems.
But buyers who are less certain about where they want to live may prefer working with an agent who covers a broader geographical area and can help narrow down the list of choices.
''I really think what holds people back from exploring Queens is that there are so many different neighborhoods,'' said Susanne Gutermuth, an associate broker at the Bayside office of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''The biggest part of the process is figuring out where they want to go.''
Ms. Gutermuth said many of her clients were first-time buyers currently renting in Manhattan or Brooklyn, who were considering Queens but knew little about its neighborhoods. For couples with children, she said, places at the top of the list include Forest Hills, Bayside and Flushing, while single buyers tend to gravitate toward Astoria, Long Island City and Jackson Heights.
The educational process can lengthen the time it takes to find the right home, compared with a search in an area a buyer already knows well. There are also quirks in how the market works in neighborhoods beyond Manhattan's borders.
''In Queens,'' Ms. Gutermuth said, ''it's not that much of an open-house culture. We do have open houses, but the times are all spread around -- we have them Thursday night and Saturday morning and some on Sunday.''
Up in Riverdale, in the Bronx, evening showings are less common than they are in Manhattan, said Susan Goldy, who ran her own agency in Riverdale for decades until it was bought by Halstead this year. Ms. Goldy, who directs her own team at Halstead, says the Riverdale real estate market still functions more like a small community, in which brokers set up tables at neighborhood events and give area tours to their clients.
''Somebody takes you in a car and drives you around,'' Ms. Goldy said. ''They'll show you the schools, the transportation hubs and where the different kind of housing is.''
Another way the other boroughs differ from Manhattan is that their listings do not necessarily show up in one centralized place online, so finding out what is on the market can take more resourcefulness than simply searching real estate Web sites and waiting for e-mail alerts to arrive.
Vicki Zubovic, who bought a three-family brownstone in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in 2006, estimated that she had found a third of the homes she considered by exploring the area and seeing ''for sale'' signs on houses, notices on coffee-shop bulletin boards, and even fliers on parked cars advertising for-sale-by-owner properties.
''There's some information that stays in the neighborhood,'' said Ms. Zubovic, although she noted that since her search, some of this local knowledge had migrated online. ''Neighborhood blogs about Bedford-Stuyvesant routinely feature open houses and homes for sale. I would've loved to have had that.'' She cited Bed-Stuy Patch as one such site.
Other community-based sites with real estate tips are Astorians.com, where locals trade advice about apartments, brokers and open houses in Astoria, Queens, and Brownstoner.com, which features real estate listings in neighborhoods around Brooklyn.
Jonathan Butler, Brownstoner's founder, said one challenge for buyers looking in Brooklyn was the sheer size of the borough. Someone with a budget of $800,000 for a town house might consider neighborhoods as diverse and far-flung as Bedford-Stuyvesant, Crown Heights, Prospect-Lefferts Gardens, Windsor Terrace, Sunset Park or Bay Ridge, he said. And he noted that Bed-Stuy itself was ''really a collection of small neighborhoods,'' each with a distinct feel and pricing.
Buyers hunting online for properties may find that different agents or Web sites draw the boundaries of Brooklyn neighborhoods in their own ways, and that some listings may be exclusive to agents who do little online promotion.
''I'm constantly amazed at how little or how poorly many small brokers use technology,'' Mr. Butler said. ''In many neighborhoods, you really do have to walk the block or ride your bike around to look for a shingle out front.''
John Reinhardt, the president and chief executive of Fillmore Real Estate, which was founded in Brooklyn in 1966, says the borough's reputation for independent agents who guard exclusive information about listings was changing -- especially as tech-savvy sellers demand wider exposure for their homes.
''There are still some of those brokers around,'' Mr. Reinhardt said. ''But the market is slowly but surely evolving.''
Even so, Brooklyn's preponderance of neighborhood-based specialists can make it tough for buyers casting a wider net, or those looking for less expensive homes.
''A downtown broker may have a snobby attitude about the rest of Brooklyn,'' said Mr. Reinhardt, recommending that more open-ended buyers find a broker ''who can talk about Canarsie, East Brooklyn and Bay Ridge in one breath.''
Finding a good agent, however, can be as big a challenge as finding the right home, especially for buyers on a tight budget and no contacts in the areas they're considering.
Jonathan Nichols and his husband, Karl Vinola, wanted to take advantage of the first-time buyers' tax credit that ended last year; they had a budget of $200,000 and a 10 percent down payment limit.
When they contacted some of the big Manhattan agencies, Mr. Nichols said, ''a lot of people were not even interested in talking to someone who was looking to buy in Queens.'' Inquiries about listings they had seen online sometimes led agents to push properties they couldn't afford. ''You'd call them and they'd say: 'Oh, that's not available. However, I can show you these other places that are nowhere near your price range,' '' he said.
They ultimately found Ms. Gutermuth of Prudential Douglas Elliman -- whom Mr. Nichols praised as honest and straightforward -- and closed on a one-bedroom apartment in Woodside last year, staying below their budget.
''A lot of times brokers will leave stuff off the listing just to get you in the door,'' Mr. Nichols said, ''but she often had the lowdown on the building.''
On the affordability scale, Staten Island continues to offer some of the best values in the city, and many homes there are still bought and sold based on newspaper advertisements and ''for sale'' signs in yards.
''We're still a community that advertises in print media, mainly The Staten Island Advance,'' said Robert Kelly, the owner of Master Realtors, which has been in Oakwood, in eastern Staten Island, since 1958. ''People still expect to see listings in there, even though 90 percent of consumers go online first.''
Those listings also appear on the paper's Web site, silive.com, and since most sales on the island are traded through the Staten Island Board of Realtors, its Web site, siborrealtors.com, is a comprehensive source of information about homes on the market.
Despite the growing popularity of many neighborhoods in outlying boroughs, more distant areas can seem like a bit of a frontier for those who work in Manhattan, and looking for a home there can involve a lot of travel back and forth. But there can be some pleasant transportation surprises.
Joseph Stellato, who grew up in the Marine Park area of Brooklyn and has been renting in the financial district, is about to close on a two-bedroom apartment in Bay Ridge -- in a move that mystifies some of his 20-something peers.
''Usually people want to know how long the commute is,'' he said. ''When I tell them there's an express bus, that usually piques their interest.''
With the express bus, he expects his commute to take about 40 minutes, and to be more comfortable than a crowded subway train. In general, he believes that the transit concerns of buyers in farther-flung neighborhoods are offset by the lower real estate prices. (He paid less than $300,000 for his apartment.)
''These areas are not seeing the inflation that a lot of other places have,'' Mr. Stellato said, ''because people don't view them as a viable option. But it's not a difficult commute at all.''
TIPS FOR HOUSE-HUNTING IN THE BOROUGHS
Friends and Family Many local brokers count on word-of-mouth for new business, so tap your networks, Facebook and Twitter.
Four Wheels You may need to rent a car to visit homes in areas without subway service.
Make a Date Some neighborhoods don't have a tradition of Sunday open houses. You'll often need to make appointments to view properties.
Old Media Some brokers rely on ads in community newspapers, fliers and for-sale signs to get the word out about their listings.
...And New Local Web sites like brownstoner.com, astorians.com and some brokers' sites have listings and neighborhood tips.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PERSON TO PERSON: At the Riverdale Festival of the Arts in the Bronx last Sunday, Susan Goldy, center, worked the real estate booth. She directs a local team for Halstead. Michael P. Carfagna, below left, who has his own agency in Jackson Heights, Queens, showed a place on 80th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
LEGWORK: Vicki Zubovic found her brownstone in Bedford-Stuyvesant by walking around the neighborhood. Jonathan Nichols, far left, and his husband, Karl Vinola, bought a one-bedroom in Woodside, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1350 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL DECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Protesters Hit the Bull's-Eye

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Occupiers of Zuccotti Park and other sites around the country have been criticized for the fuzziness of their goals. Their complaint that the privileged few in the top 1 percent are getting a disproportionate share of the nation's prosperity, however, is spot on. And Wall Streeters are taking a bigger and bigger chunk of that income.
Who exactly are the people at the top? They are 1.4 million families that made on average $1 million in 2009, the latest data available. They took a hit from the 2008 financial crisis, but no doubt are regaining lost ground. The rich always do: a report published last week by the Congressional Budget Office shows that the share of national income going to the top percentage of households skyrocketed over the last three decades, even as it fell for the vast majority of American families. 
The top 1 percent's share of the nation's total adjusted gross income was 17 percent in 2009, down from 23 percent two years before. But those people are still earning more than the entire bottom half of the population.
The first chart shows the share of national income that goes to families at different points of the income distribution. Since the mid-1980s the top 10 percent of Americans have increased their share at the expense of everybody else. But the lion's share of these gains accrued to the richest 1 percent; and half of those gains went to the top 0.1 percent.
Wall Street financiers were always well paid. In the last three decades their representation at the very top of the income pyramid has grown by leaps and bounds. A recent study by two academic economists and a Treasury Department analyst found that financiers -- bankers, fund managers and the like -- account for about 14 percent of the taxpayers in the top percentile of income distribution. There are more non-financial business executives than bankers in this wealthiest slice of income. But their share of this slice fell over the past quarter century, while the financiers' share grew substantially. Today financiers account for 16 percent of the income of the top percentile, up from 9 percent in 1979. Their share is now almost as big as that of lawyers and doctors combined.
It's hard to believe today, but from the 1960s to about 1980 workers in finance made little more than those in the rest of the private sector, on average. Then, things changed: from the '80s on, administrations from both parties embraced deregulation, undoing many of the rules put in place in the wake of the Great Depression to limit banks' riskiest, and most lucrative, investments. Gone were the limits on interstate banking, down came the wall separating commercial and investment banks.
From 1979 to 2006, the financial industry's share in the nation's corporate profits grew from a fifth to almost a third. By 2006, bankers and insurers were making 70 percent more, on average, than workers in the rest of the private sector. Then they set off one of the worst financial crises in living memory, and taxpayers bailed them out.
The protesters' grievances may be aimed at Wall Street as a metaphor for broader economic forces. But there is nothing metaphorical about who is taking home the wealth. The protesters might even aim a bit higher: the real income growth is happening in the top 0.1 percent. There are lots of bankers there, too.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
A chart in some editions on Oct. 30 that gave examples of how people in New York City rank by income mislabeled three categories. The category labeled ''Top 10 percent'' contained average income and population for those whose income was greater than 90 percent of Americans, but less than the top 1 percent. Similarly, the category labeled ''Top 1 percent'' contained statistics for those whose income was higher than 99 percent of others, but lower than the top 0.1 percent. And the category labeled ''Top 0.1 percent'' contained statistics for those whose income was higher than 99.9 percent of Americans, but lower than the top 0.01 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Which Groups Got How Much (Source: Internal Revenue Service
percentages are rounded)
 About Those Bankers (Sources: Jon Bakija, Adam Cole and Bradley T. Heim) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); INCOME TAX (87%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1351 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Big Brown Carries the Burden of His Owners

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
LEXINGTON, Ky. -- Big Brown is having a good autumn. His first crop of yearlings, a handsome bunch, has been selling crisply. The horsemen here in the bluegrass in advance of this week's 28th Breeders' Cup have been buzzing about what they have seen from Big Brown's babies in the sales ring. The big bay is in Australia, mating with a full book of 130 mares, and being paid nicely to do so: $27,500 a date.
Harmony, however, has not always surrounded Big Brown, who looked like a horse of a lifetime in the spring of 2008 as he pulled into the Belmont Stakes having posted eye-popping victories in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes. He was 6 for 6 and looked to be on the verge of becoming the 12th Triple Crown champion and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
His human connections certainly thought so, and Big Brown's Triple Crown campaign had developed something of the feel of a traveling circus. The colt's majority owner, International Equine Acquisitions Holdings, said it was raising $100 million for a hedge fund to buy, sell and breed horses, collecting management and performance fees. 
His trainer, Rick Dutrow, admitted during the Triple Crown pursuit that Big Brown, like many of his contemporaries, had been on a steroid regimen before running in the Derby. Finally, there were Big Brown's tender feet -- he was prone to abscesses on his front hooves that kept him from the track for long stretches and demanded a special farrier and shoe.
Still, on the eve of the Belmont, Dutrow called the Triple Crown championship for Big Brown ''a foregone conclusion.''
Big Brown's Belmont, of course, did not go as planned, and he finished dead last after jockey Kent Desormeaux felt something amiss on the far turn and gingerly galloped him home.
Was it Big Brown's sore feet and the training he missed because of them? Did he miss the steroids that had been a staple of his training? What kind of racehorses would he produce as a stallion, and how much would he command over the years to do so?
All remain open questions. What is not much in doubt is that the fortunes of many involved with Big Brown have gone the wrong way.
This month, the New York State Racing and Wagering Board barred Dutrow from racing for 10 years, citing his nearly 70 violations at 15 racetracks in nine states -- most recently for using powerful painkillers -- and saying he had ''eroded confidence in the betting public and caused an embarrassment throughout the industry.'' Dutrow has been granted a stay on the ban and is appealing the decision, which could end his career.
International Equine Acquisitions Holdings is down to four or five horses. In March, it closed an equine hospital near Belmont Park that it had built and operated. The hedge fund never materialized, but lawsuits and complaints of bounced checks and unpaid bills have.
And Big Brown? He may be not exactly a lonely stallion, but perhaps an overlooked one, through no fault of his own.
''There's always an entourage that surrounds the horse, and sometimes, you can get vanilla people and sometimes, you get colorful people,'' Paul Pompa Jr. said diplomatically.
Pompa originally bought Big Brown for $190,000, then sold 75 percent of him to I.E.A.H. for $3 million. He stayed out of the public eye throughout the 2008 Triple Crown run but has a robust stable and is one of the principal shareholders in the syndicate that owns Big Brown's stallion rights.
''Do I wish that some of the connections had more positive press?'' Pompa said. ''Yes. But at the end of the day, the horse speaks for himself. He was a brilliant horse who won seven of eight races and dominated his generation.''
Horse breeders here were slow to warm to Big Brown as a stallion, as his stud fee fell to $40,000 this year from $65,000 in 2009, his first season. His book of mares was healthy -- 98 last year, 114 in 2011 -- and many of them were foal shares, or deals in which money did not change hands until the offspring was sold at auction.
''We did go to stud as the economy was going down and the money dried up,'' said Michael Iavarone, an I.E.A.H. co-president, who is also a minority partner in Big Brown's stallion rights. ''It certainly impacted our stable. There was not the kind of money out there to buy the kind of horses we wanted to buy.''
Iavarone was the face of the I.E.A.H. stable. But as the Triple Crown chase progressed in 2008, revelations surfaced about how he had misrepresented himself as a high-profile Wall Street executive when in fact he had worked for penny stock firms. He had also been suspended for Security and Exchange Commission violations.
In the weeks before the Belmont, it also was revealed that James Tagliaferri, whose asset-management firm based in St. Thomas, V.I., had invested more than $25 million in I.E.A.H. for a 60 percent stake in its racing stables. In December 2010, one of his clients, Matthew Szulik, the retired chairman and chief executive of the software company Red Hat, filed a suit against Tagliaferri, whom he accused of defrauding him of $60 million, including using $20 million of it to buy into I.E.A.H. horses.
Tagliaferri did not respond to e-mails seeking comment.
But now that Big Brown's yearlings are making it to the auction ring, the focus has returned to what he did on the racetrack and whether he has passed those genes on. So far, 37 of them have sold for an average price of $93,467, and the reviews of Big Brown's offspring are promising.
Bob Feld, a bloodstock agent, spent $310,000 on a Big Brown colt at the Keeneland September sale because he was impressed with his athleticism.
''He had good size and looked very racy,'' Feld said. ''He was what you expect to see out of Big Brown. I look at the finished product, not the pedigree book.''
He did, however, acknowledge why a bias against Big Brown might exist in the insular world of commercial breeding in central Kentucky.
''If the horse was owned by Ted Bassett,'' said Feld, referring to the former president and chairman of Keeneland, ''there may be a warmer or fuzzier feeling about all this stuff.''
In time, then, Big Brown might yet be spared carrying the weight of some of his human connections. Is he ready to carry the hopes and dreams of other future Derby dreamers? It is too early to tell.
''He has produced some nice foals that trainers and horsemen like,'' said Case Clay, the president of Three Chimneys Farm, where Big Brown stands when he is in Kentucky. ''There is good buzz about them. No one knows what stallion will have good runners. But the true test is next year when they hit the track.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of the offspring of Big Brown and the mare Mrs. Debbie M. His stud fee has fallen to $40,000 this year from $65,000 in 2009, his first season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jockey Kent Desormeaux and Big Brown won the first two legs of the Triple Crown in 2008, but faltered in the Belmont. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON SZENES/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (SP9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); STEROIDS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1352 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Our Unpaid, Extra Shadow Work

BYLINE: By CRAIG LAMBERT. 
The deputy editor of Harvard Magazine.

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
THE other night at the supermarket I saw a partner at a downtown law firm working as a grocery checker, scanning bar codes. I'm sure she earns at least $300,000 per year. Even so, she was scanning and bagging her purchases in the self-service checkout line. For those with small orders, this might save time spent waiting in slower lines. Nonetheless, she was performing the unskilled, entry-level jobs of supermarket checker and bagger free of charge.
This is ''shadow work,'' a term coined 30 years ago by the Austrian philosopher and social critic Ivan Illich, in his 1981 book of that title. For Dr. Illich, shadow work was all the unpaid labor -- including, for example, housework -- done in a wage-based economy.
In a subsistence economy, work directly answers the needs of life: gathering food, growing crops, building shelters and fires. But once money comes into play, a whole range of tasks arises that do not address basic needs. Instead, such work may enable one to earn money and buy both necessities and, if possible, luxuries. 
To do the work requires extra jobs, like commuting. The commuter often has to own, insure, maintain and fuel a car -- and drive it -- just to get to work and back. These unpaid activities ancillary to earning one's wages are examples of shadow work.
In the industrialized world, few of us live in a subsistence mode, so shadow work is ubiquitous: shopping, paying bills, housework. Digital technology -- with its spam, e-mail, texting, smartphones and so on -- is steadily ramping up the burden of shadow work for all whose lives revolve around its magnetic field.
Science fiction novels of a half-century ago dramatized conflicts between humans and robots, asking if people were controlling their technologies, or if the machines were actually in charge. A few decades later, with the digital revolution in juggernaut mode, the verdict is in. The robots have won. Although the automatons were supposedly going to free people by taking on life's menial, repetitive tasks, frequently, technological innovation actually offloads such jobs onto human beings.
The conventional wisdom is that America has become a ''service economy,'' but actually, in many sectors, ''service'' is disappearing. There was a time when a gas station attendant would routinely fill your tank and even check your oil and clean your windshield and rear window without charge, then settle your bill. Today, all those jobs have been transferred to the customer: we pump our own gas, squeegee our own windshield, and pay our own bill by swiping a credit card. Where customers once received service from the service station, they now provide ''self-service'' -- a synonym for ''no service.'' Technology enables this sleight of hand, which lets gas stations cut their payrolls, having co-opted their patrons into doing these jobs without pay.
Examples abound, helping drive unemployment rates. Airports now have self-service check-in kiosks that allow travelers to perform the jobs of ticket agents. Travel agents once unearthed, perused and compared fares, deals and hotel rates. Shadow-working travelers now do all of this themselves on their computer screens. Medical patients are now better informed than ever -- as a result of hours of online shadow work. In 1998, the Internal Revenue Service estimated that taxpayers spent six billion hours per year on ''tax compliance activities.'' That's serious shadow work, the equivalent of three million full-time jobs.
Once upon a time, retail stores had employees who were not cashiers but roamed the floor, assisting customers. Go into a Wal-Mart or Target or Staples and find someone to help you locate and choose a product. Good luck. You're on your own, left to wander the aisles in search of an unoccupied staff person. (Meanwhile, you might stumble on and purchase some item you hadn't planned on buying.) Here, it's not technology, but a business tactic that cuts payroll expenses by trimming the service provided to customers -- and prolongs the time those customers spend rambling around inside the store. Regardless, the result is still more shadow work, as customers take on the job that retail salespeople once did.
Shadow work isn't always unpaid; sometimes it shows up at one's salaried job in the form of new tasks covertly added to one's responsibilities. Not long ago, human resources departments kept track of employees' vacation, personal and sick days. In many organizations, employees now enter their own data into absence management software.
One nostalgic appeal of the ''Mad Men'' television series is the way it evokes memories of certain amusingly dated aspects of business life, like ''support staff,'' and even ''secretaries.'' Support staff is becoming a quaint, antiquarian concept, a historical curiosity like typewriters, stenography and executive washrooms. We all have our own computers, of course, and we type and print our own letters, copy our own reports and mail our own missives. Even those in senior management perform these humdrum jobs.
Of course, these shadow chores never appear in one's job description, let alone justify any salary increase. Shadow work is just covertly added to our daily duties. As robotic devices replace human workers, end-users like customers and employees are taking on the remnant of the transaction that still requires wetware -- a brain. New waves of technology change how things are done, and we docilely adapt -- unavoidably so, as there's usually no alternative. Running a business without e-mail is hardly a viable option, but with e-mail comes spam to be evaluated and deleted -- more shadow work.
TO be sure, shadow work has its benefits. Bagging one's own groceries or pumping one's own gas can save time. Shadow work can increase autonomy and enlarge our repertoire of skills and knowledge. Research on the ''Ikea effect,'' named for the Swedish furniture manufacturer whose products often require home assembly, indicates that customers value a product more highly when they play a role in constructing it.
Still, doctors routinely observe that one of the most common complaints today is fatigue; a 2007 study pegged its prevalence in the American work force at 38 percent. This should not be surprising. Much of this fatigue may result from the steady, surreptitious accumulation of shadow work in modern life. People are simply doing a huge number of tasks that were once done for them by others.
Doing things for one another is, in fact, an essential characteristic of a human community. Various mundane jobs were once spread around among us, and performing such small services for one another was even an aspect of civility. Those days are over. The robots are in charge now, pushing a thousand routine tasks onto each of our backs.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CAM FLOYD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); GAS STATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); TEXT MESSAGING (64%); EMAIL MARKETING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1353 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; INBOX; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Intriguing Footnotes To Baseball History

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''No True Sense of History Without a Sense of Place,'' Oct. 23: Jane Leavy expressed surprise that the original gravestone of Jack Norworth made no mention of his composing ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game.'' But this apparent slight has less to do with overlooking his contribution and more with the rising importance of the song in the 50 years since his death.
When a movie biography of Norworth and his wife, Nora Bayes, was filmed in 1944, it was named for another song they co-wrote, ''Shine On, Harvest Moon.'' 
By the way, Norworth wrote only the lyrics to the baseball song; Albert Von Tilzer wrote the equally well-known music.
Steven A. King
New York
To the Sports Editor:
In lamenting the lack of caring that would go into the placement of plaques honoring the moments and long-gone places in baseball history, perhaps Jane Leavy should have mentioned that the Boston Red Sox cared enough to place a bright red seat in the right-field bleachers to commemorate the longest home run hit at Fenway Park.
The seat marks the spot where Ted Williams crushed a pitch 502 feet on June 9, 1946. The measurement was taken from home plate to the spot where the ball hit the bench (actually, the head of the fan sitting on it).
Mary-Ann Tirone Smith
East Haven, Conn.
Time to Start N.B.A. Season
To the Sports Editor:
The players and the owners could save more than the season by agreeing to escrow the amount of money in dispute, and proceeding with the season now based on the amount of money not in dispute. For example, if one side is at 48 percent and the other is at 52 percent, 4 percent is in dispute but 96 percent is not.
With the season under way, the owners and the players can sort how the 4 percent in dispute should be divided, and the N.B.A. will earn a great deal of good will.
Wick R. Chambers
Hamden, Conn.
To the Sports Editor:
It is time for President Obama to step in to strongly encourage both parties to agree to binding arbitration in labor negotiations. What is at stake is neither the multimillion-dollar player contracts nor the owners' desire to make more money, but the jobs held by everyday people and the livelihoods of many small business owners.
Those who say the two parties should work it out among themselves have not looked at the calendar. This approach has not worked. This is a stalemate that only quick action by instituting binding arbitration can save this season.
Paul Jankovic
Bethany Beach, Del.
To the Sports Editor:
The N.B.A. players association, led by Derek Fisher and Billy Hunter, is out of touch with the economic realities of the day. They interpret fairness to mean that each player is paid not what he's worth to his team, but a perfectly fair share of all the pro basketball revenue.
But what about the fans? Life is not fair to those of us who have seen the power of our unions diminished, our pensions disappear and our investments lose value.
Notwithstanding an amazing Dallas Mavericks championship last season, the N.B.A. has lost much of the fans' interest since Magic, Larry and Michael left the game. The players would be smart to sacrifice to make sure this season starts as soon as possible. If the N.B.A. loses the whole season, I don't believe it will ever recover.
Michael J. Gorman
Queens
Cheering a Trailblazer
To the Sports Editor:
Re: ''A Leading Pioneer,'' Oct. 26: Bravo to Dr. Julia Chase-Brand. As a 1950s graduate of a women's college, I have always wondered why women attending the sister schools could, even in the late 1880s, play full-field field hockey and, just a bit later on, play full-field lacrosse, yet not run a few miles or take more than two dribbles on half of a basketball court.
Barbara A. Conover
New York
Communication
And Pronunciation
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''Missed Bullpen Calls Lead to an Interesting Game of Telephone,'' Oct. 26: St. Louis Manager Tony La Russa was unable to communicate to his bullpen coach that he also wanted Jason Motte warming up in the eighth inning of World Series Game 5, which the Cardinals subsequently lost.
I would like to offer a low-tech solution that has been used for decades when pilots communicate with control towers and more recently when doctors communicate with nurses: repeat back. Simply put, the person who receives the call confirms the content by repeating what has been said.
Leon Reinstein
Baltimore
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''The Only Name That La Russa Made Clear,'' Oct. 27: Marc Rzepczynski pronounces his surname Zhep-CHIN-ski. In Polish, the only purpose of an r preceding a hard consonant is to soften it, from a ''z'' sound to a ''zh'' sound, for example.
Russian, similar but with a Cyrillic (based on Greek) rather than a Latin alphabet (as in Polish), has diminutive letters (''soft sound'' and ''hard sound''), with no Latin counterpart. When a Russian surname with one of these sounds is transliterated into the Latin alphabet, the softened sound of the two combined letters is used. So there is nothing ''Americanized'' about the way Rzepczynski pronounces his name. That's the way his ancestors did it.
John Zdrojewski
Redlands, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SONG WRITING (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (55%)

PERSON: STEVE KING (53%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); DELAWARE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1354 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3758 words

HEADLINE: Roaring at the Screen

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH. 
Frank Rich is writer at large for New York magazine .

 BODY:
PAULINE KAEL
A Life in the Dark
By Brian Kellow
417 pp. Viking. $27.95.
THE AGE OF MOVIES
Selected Writings of Pauline Kael
Edited by Sanford Schwartz
828 pp. The Library of America. $40.
In his introduction to ''The Age of Movies,'' the Library of America anthology canonizing Pauline Kael, Sanford Schwartz writes that she was ''undoubtedly the most fervently read American critic of any art'' during her two-/decade tenure at The New Yorker. That's not hyperbole. Such was the power of Kael's voluminous writing about movies that she transformed the sensibility and standards of mainstream pop culture criticism in America -- mostly for the better, despite her bullying personality (in print and in life), her sloppy professional ethics and her at times careerist escapades in self-dramatizing contrarianism. She had a lot to write about. Her prime years as a critic happily coincided with sequential renaissances in foreign cinema (the 1960s) and American movies (the 1970s). Week after week, she whipped up torrents of copy that could make causes celebres out of even the most ephemeral Hollywood fluff. 
She upended journalistic criticism the way contemporaneous New Journalists like Tom Wolfe and Hunter Thompson revolutionized reportage. Her essays, fiercely present in the moment and epic in length, buttonholed readers so they'd feel as if they were sitting next to her in the dark, seeing every/thing she saw. She fired up her exultantly vernacular American prose as if she were writing high-octane fiction, not passing judgment on ''Cabaret.''
It's also true, as Schwartz writes, that Kael's retirement, in 1991 at age 71, was a national news story. But her death, at 82 in 2001, was not. The culture of the new century was rapidly moving on. Now yet another decade has passed, and Kael may be little read outside of cineaste circles and film-studies academia (a milieu she detested). Most of her books are out of print. Ask moviegoers under 40 who she is, and you may draw a blank. Then again, what serious film critics of any era, including our own, are household names these days? We no longer live in the age of movies, and ambitious professional arts criticism is an increasingly arcane calling in a digital world where the old maxim, everyone's a critic, is literally true. While much of Kael may be out of print, today it's an anomaly when the output of any critic is collected in a book in the first place (let alone Kael's 11 anthologies of full-length reviews). Few movies can muscle their way onto center stage in our reality-TV-saturated media universe. The individualistic filmmaking that sustained Kael and her peers now must fight to find financing or theatrical distribution outside New York. Even the once unassailable Oscars are suffering an identity crisis and struggling to hold on to their annual /spotlight.
It's hard to believe there was a time, not that long ago, when movie zealots would race to the newsstand on the days The New Yorker and The Village Voice were hot off the press to see Kael square off against her principal critical antagonist, the essential Andrew Sarris, on whatever was new in theaters that week. Though there are still some fine film critics at work, few readers wait for their verdicts on the new Almodovar or Scor/sese the way so many once waited for Kael's. Print movie critics declined in influence with the rise of Siskel and /Ebert's thumbs up-thumbs down appraisals on television. Now film criticism on television has largely vanished, too, succeeded by depersonalized aggregation sites like /Rotten Tomatoes. The double-entendre book titles Kael chose to convey the orgiastic passions informing her criticism -- ''I Lost It at the Movies,'' ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang,'' et al. -- seem as distant and overheated as the title cards in silent melodramas. Today's mass audience is more likely to watch movies (or, more often, time-shifted television) on a digital screen at home or on an iPad than in the sensuous dark of a movie house.
Some newcomers to Kael may not know what to make of ''The Age of Movies.'' Her style has been imitated by so many for so long that the excitement the ur-texts generated may not be instantly accessible. More than a few of the movies sparking her enthusiasm have faded into obscurity. (''The Last American Hero'' is apparently M.I.A. even on Netflix.) So have some of the once-sacred cows she slaughtered, like Michelangelo Antonioni's ''Blow-Up.'' To appreciate Kael's trailblazing, you have to see it in its broader context. Luckily, that backdrop is filled in with sure-footed sophistication by Brian Kellow in ''Pauline Kael: A Life in the Dark,'' a fair-minded and deeply reported Kael biography being published simultaneously with the artfully winnowed Library of America sampling of her work. The books should be read side by side.
Kellow is an editor at Opera News whose previous biographical subjects include the divas Eileen Farrell and Ethel Merman. They had nothing on Kael. A short, compact woman, she possessed a voluble personality -- sometimes mother hen-ish, sometimes anything but -- that could fill a room. ''She's like Willie Mays -- you always know when she's on the field,'' the New York Times critic Vincent Canby said to me, with wry respect, as we emerged from a screening in the '70s at which Kael's exasperated sighs and not-so-sotto-voce wisecracks had been particularly distracting. There may never have been an American movie critic with a more voracious desire to work her will on the world -- or with a more sui generis back story.
As told by Kellow, the protracted first act of the Kael saga would have made an ideal vehicle for Barbara Stanwyck or Bette Davis, stars who ranked high in her pantheon. It offers more than a few scenes worthy of ''Stella Dallas'' and ''Of Human Bondage'': Kael, a hand-to-mouth single mother, spent decades in a professional and personal wilderness before landing her job at The New Yorker at the age of 48. Kellow also detects parallels between Kael and a later Hollywood star whose career she would champion, Barbra Streisand: ''a smart Jewish girl who had refused to alter, even modify, her singular talent and her independent approach to life.''
Though Kael often made a shtick out of her Western roots -- all the better to cast herself as a rebel in opposition to the East Coast intellectual establishment she resented -- she was in fact a second-generation American of ''Yentl''-ish heritage. Her parents had migrated from Poland to the slums of Hester Street and ultimately to the then pastoral town of Petaluma, /Calif., where they joined a thriving community of Jewish chicken farmers. Kael, the youngest of five children, was born there in 1919. She adored her father, Isaac, a flagrant adulterer. ''Rather than resenting her father for his infidelity to her mother,'' Kellow writes, ''Pauline seemed almost to take pride in it.'' As an adult, she ''would be drawn steadily to similarly unapologetic, confident and self-reliant males -- as friends, sometimes as lovers and often as objects of professional admiration.'' In that last category were the directors Robert Altman, Sam Peckinpah, James Toback and Brian De Palma.
After Isaac Kael lost his farm in the economic turmoil of the late '20s, he sought work in San Francisco, where Pauline would become a precocious high school student and an expert debater who in one competition, tantalizingly enough, faced Carol Channing. (Alas, the topic and the victor aren't named.) After graduation, Kael entered Berkeley as a philosophy major and stepped up her prodigious consumption of literature. But she quit college before graduation, impatient to pursue a career as a writer of short fiction and plays. By then she was also pursuing serial attachments to men who had something other than confidence and self-reliance in common. They were all poets, and all gay or bisexual -- Robert Duncan, Robert Horan and James Broughton.
Kael and Horan hitchhiked across America in 1941 to break into the Manhattan literary world. Broke and homeless upon arrival, they camped out in Grand Central Terminal. Horan wandered the streets in search of food, and one night caught the eye of the composers and lovers Samuel Barber and Gian Carlo Menotti when they spotted him weaving in front of Saks Fifth Avenue as they walked home from the opera. The couple unofficially adopted Horan, and, unsurprisingly, he peeled away from Kael. Thus began an odyssey, lasting more than a decade, in which she supported her writing habit with what she called ''crummy jobs'' -- among them stints as a /publishing-house grunt, a clerk at Brentano's, a violin teacher and a freelance tutor. After some four years of defeat in her efforts to break into professional writing in New York, she returned to San Francisco. By the early '50s, she was running a laundry and tailoring business off Market Street, desperate to support her young daughter, Gina, fathered out of wedlock by Broughton in 1948. She continued to crank out unpublished stories and unproduced plays in whatever spare time she could find. When she learned that Gina had a congenital heart defect, she could not afford the surgery needed to repair it.
Once Kael's fortunes finally changed, it was through a lucky break as improbable as starlets being discovered at Schwab's drugstore. Arguing with a friend about a film in a Berkeley coffeehouse in the fall of 1952, she was overheard by Peter D. Martin, the founder of a new film-criticism journal, City Lights. Martin was so captivated by Kael's riff that he invited her to review Chaplin's ''Limelight'' -- which she did, in a pan revealing her critical voice in embryo. Mocking the film's climax, in which the Chaplin hero, a has-been clown, dies in the wings of a theater after achieving redemption, Kael wrote that it was ''surely the richest hunk of self-/gratification since Huck and Tom attended their own funeral.'' The piece attracted the attention of Mary McCarthy, among others, and soon Kael was submitting articles about film to other small but prestigious outlets like Partisan Review and Sight and Sound. At the ripe age of 33, she had at last found her subject as a writer. She had also found a literary community, in an exploding Bay Area bohemia populated by the likes of Kenneth Rexroth, Robert Creeley, Allen Ginsberg and Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Peter Martin's partner in creating the legendary City Lights bookstore and the founder of its publishing-house spinoff.
What Kael did not find, however, was a way to make money. Her next big breaks, both in Berkeley, brought her a devoted local following, not income. In 1955, she was recruited by KPFA-FM to contribute film reviews -- a million words' worth in her accounting, all without pay, by the time she quit in anger in 1963. Her broadcasts caught the attention of Edward Landberg, the owner of the Berkeley Cinema Guild, a pioneering twin-screen art house. He and Kael became a couple, which led to Kael's writing program notes for the films he booked, which in turn led to her commandeering almost all aspects of the theater, from the creation of inventive double bills (Clouzot's ''Diabolique'' and Capra's ''Arsenic and Old Lace'') to the nuts and bolts of house management. Kellow writes that ''locals grew accustomed to seeing her up on a ladder changing the Guild's marquee, a hip flask filled with Wild Turkey dangling from a belt loop.'' Along the way Landberg and Kael married. It didn't last long -- ''I soon found out that I couldn't stand this woman,'' Landberg says -- but Kael's fleeting (and only) husband did pay for Gina's heart surgery.
Kael's national reputation began to grow with essays that staked out her idio/syncratic take on movies and that attacked the reigning film critics back east. Beginning with ''Movies, the Desperate Art,'' published in 1956 (and the kickoff entry in ''The Age of Movies''), a coherent vision emerges. Kael deplored the empty mercantile dictates of Hollywood's studio executives and their corporate masters. But she was equally contemptuous of the faddish, pretentious art-house crowd that ''accepts lack of clarity as complexity, accepts clumsiness and confusion as 'ambiguity' and as style.'' Much as her favorite films of her 1930s youth were screwball comedies and Warner Brothers gangster movies rather than the highfalutin prestige productions of Louis B. Mayer and Irving Thalberg's MGM, so she'd consistently prefer a low entertainment with a distinctive voice to a fashionable slab of deracinated chic like ''Last Year at Marienbad'' or a knee-jerk Hollywood message drama steeped in unearned righteousness. She valued emotional messiness over the technical mastery of a Hitchcock or Kubrick. ''I don't trust anyone who doesn't admit having at some time in his life enjoyed trashy American movies,'' she wrote in ''Trash, Art and the Movies,'' her landmark manifesto published in Har/per's Magazine in 1969. But for all her dislike of New York's literary elite (and, for that matter, the city itself), she was fully grounded in the Western canon and by no means provincial. She adored Jean Renoir and Satyajit Ray no less than Coppola and Spielberg. You could disagree with her judgments, as I did at least half the time, and still find her an invigorating, inspired and entertaining connector of culture's dots whatever the bottom-line verdict on the film at hand.
Kael's trajectory to The New Yorker included abortive runs at publications as disparate as The New Republic and the slick women's magazine McCall's, both of which tried and failed to tame her. /McCall's reportedly fired Kael for a retrospective attack on ''The Sound of Music'' that she shoehorned into a review of ''The Singing Nun'' in 1966. ''Wasn't there perhaps one little Von Trapp who didn't want to sing his head off, or who screamed that he wouldn't act out little glockenspiel routines for Papa's party guests, or who got nervous and threw up if he had to get on a stage?'' she wrote. By then, Kael was too much of a cult favorite to be slowed down by a pink slip. ''I Lost It at the Movies,'' a collection of her early work published in 1965 and propelled by a generous rave from Richard Schickel in The Times Book Review, had sold a remarkable 150,000 copies in paperback.
The piece that finally brought Kael east for keeps was a 7,000-word exegesis of ''Bonnie and Clyde'' that she wrote as an implicit tryout for The New Yorker in 1967. I still remember how liberating the essay felt when I read it as a college freshman. Kael not only wrote with a seductive, jazzy voice and an encyclopedic command of the arts high and low; she also situated the film's groundbreaking use of violence in the simmering late-'60s America where it had landed. Despite antecedents like James Agee and Manny Farber (both Kael role models), this kind of criticism was almost unheard-of in a mass-/circulation publication then. The norm was instead exemplified by the most powerful movie reviewer of that time, Bos/ley Crowther, who had been The Times's chief critic since 1940. He had dismissed ''Bonnie and Clyde'' as ''a cheap piece of baldfaced slapstick comedy'' that threatened the nation's moral health.
Crowther had long been in Kael's cross hairs, and with good reason. A witless writer who fell in line with most big-/budget packages the studios were flogging and was baffled by almost anything else, he exemplified moralistic middlebrow arts criticism at its most pernicious. Because of his position, he exercised a lot of clout in the marketplace besides. ''Bonnie and Clyde'' effected a revolution. Crowther's tone-deaf pan, greeted with an uproar of protest from the paper's readers, provoked The Times to replace him with an iconoclastic young critic, Renata Adler. Kael's uninhibited rave persuaded the editor of The New Yorker, William Shawn, to move his film critic, Brendan Gill, to the theater beat, and divide the film job between Kael and the British writer Penelope Gilliatt, who would each serve six months a year in alternation (and often in bitter conflict).
At this triumphant juncture, a reader should turn to Kael's full New Yorker reviews rather than Kellow's year-after-year summaries of them. His narrative bogs down in recaps of movie plots and the juvenile jockeying that attended the annual awards balloting by the New York film critics' organizations. Mercifully, this chronicle finally gives way to a dishy, if depressing, account of Kael's decline. If her rise inspired many young writers to enter film criticism, her fall is a cautionary tale illustrating why critics in positions of power should get out while the getting is good, before they invariably flame out in corruption, self-parody, first-person megalomania or, in Kael's case, all three.
A fierce skeptic of all dogmas (including religion, feminism and liberalism) who made her name in part by knocking Sarris for promoting the auteur theory, Kael didn't recognize that she had morphed into a dogmatic auteurist in her own right -- lauding her pet directors no matter what. Her hypocrisy didn't end there. Where once she had derided Dwight Macdonald, then reviewing movies for Esquire, for likening Alain Resnais's ''Hiroshima, Mon Amour'' to Joyce and Stravinsky, she now compared Altman's ''Nashville'' to ''Ulysses'' and Bernardo Bertolucci's ''Last Tango in Paris'' to ''Le Sacre du Printemps.'' Her reviews started to swing between implausible overpraise and apocalyptic overkill to such an extent that she might have been describing herself when she dismissed Lina Wert/muller's ''Seven Beauties'' as ''all bravura highs and bravura lows, without any tonal variation.'' Someone had to cry foul, and that provocative someone turned out to be Renata Adler, who, writing in The New York Review of Books in 1980, declared Kael's work ''piece by piece, line by line, and without interruption, worthless.''
Kael's ethical breaches were more problematic than the coarsening of her writing. Though scrupulous about refusing to accept gifts or meals from movie people -- a no-brainer, surely -- she sought out and befriended those she admired without disclosing these often intense personal relationships in her (usually favorable) reviews of their films. This incestuousness would lead her to Hollywood for a brief, humiliating tenure as a Paramount functionary under Warren Beatty's sponsorship in 1979. Though she returned to The New Yorker after that failure, her authority as a writer and critic was diminished. The falloff was compounded by the falloff in movies. In the judgment of her friend James Toback, Kael was slow to recognize the metastasis of Hollywood's blockbuster mentality after the success of ''Jaws.'' From now on, as Toback puts it, movies were ''going to be made for 12-year-old boys,'' with only ''a sliver of money spent, relatively speaking, on the rest of us.''
The most serious brief against Kael's professionalism, however, is Kellow's discovery that she ripped off the research of a U.C.L.A. academic, Howard Suber, for ''Raising Kane,'' her lengthy 1971 essay about the making of ''Citizen Kane.'' Adding to that infraction, her piece contained many factual errors of her own, all undetected by New Yorker fact checkers and all contrived to reinforce her anti-auteurist argument that the screenwriter Herman Mankiewicz, not Orson Welles, was the movie's principal author. ''Raising Kane'' was omitted from the Library of America volume for reasons of space, according to Schwartz's introduction, but Kellow's account suggests it should have been eliminated in any event for its /improprieties.
In keeping with the titles of Kael's books, Kellow's subtitle, ''A Life in the Dark,'' has its own double meaning. Kael's personal life was often benighted. Her overbearing relationship with her daughter -- whom she home-schooled as a child and kept on a tight leash as secretary, driver and companion well into adulthood -- has a chilling vibe. Nearly as dispiriting is Kael's badgering and baiting of the genial, strait-laced Shawn, who indulged her with more space and literary latitude than perhaps any critic has ever enjoyed in a major American periodical (though he refused to be strong-armed into letting her write about ''Deep Throat''). Kellow also delves into Kael's sometimes fraught dealings with her fawning retinue of young critical acolytes, the so-called Paulettes, some of whom she disappointed, stunted or betrayed -- if they didn't betray her first.
In Kellow's acknowledgments, he reports that virtually the only major figure in Kael's life who declined to talk with him was her daughter, Gina James. But he does quote from what he rightly calls her ''remarkably brave and unsentimental'' eulogy at her mother's 2001 memorial tribute at Lincoln Center. It was Kael's ''lack of introspection, self-awareness, restraint or hesitation'' that gave her ''supreme freedom to speak up, to speak her mind, to find her honest voice,'' James said. ''She turned her lack of self-awareness into a triumph.''
It's clear that Pauline Kael lost much more than she ever knew at the movies. But her daughter is right. It was precisely that obsessive, even self-destructive personal investment that makes her work, both at its extraordinary best and at its most egregious, unlike anything else in the modern history of cultural criticism. If you want to understand what it was like to be in the audience during America's thrilling, now vanished age of movies, you must begin with Kael.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2011; November 27, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of one of the bibliographical notes with this article listed the price, publisher and other details about ''The Age of Movies'' incorrectly. (The erroneous information pertained to another book discussed in this section, ''Which Side Are You On?'')
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review on Oct. 30 about ''Pauline Kael: A Life in the Dark,'' by Brian Kellow, and ''The Age of Movies: Selected Writings of Pauline Kael,'' edited by Sanford Schwartz, erroneously attributed a distinction to the Berkeley, Calif., radio station KPFA, which in 1955 recruited Kael to contribute film reviews. KPFA, which went on the air in 1949, was not ''the first listener-supported radio station in America.'' (One earlier station that relied for a timeon listener contributions was little WEVD in New York, which began broadcasting in 1927 as a Socialist station.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF PAULINE KAEL BY MARTHA HOLMES/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) (BR1)
''Wasn't there perhaps one little Von Trapp who didn't want to sing his head off ?'': Julie Andrews in ''The Sound of Music.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX) (BR12)
 Kael compared ''Last Tango in Paris'' t o Stravinsky's ''Sacre du Printemps.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED ARTISTS CORPORATION) (BR13) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDA AKALTUN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM SCHOOLS (73%); JOURNALISM (71%); ETHICS (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Pauline Kael (Book); Age of Movies, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011



1355 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Jumping Jacks and Jabs At a City Budget Parade

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
It's rich to watch a City Council member rail at the very existence of Chicago's ethics office, especially given that 30 current or former aldermen have been convicted in the past 40 years.
Robert Fioretti of the Second Ward believes that the jurisdiction of the seven-person ethics operation is outrageously broad. To bolster the contention, he used an annual budget hearing last week to, as he described it, quote the Supreme Court justice Byron White declaring ''I know it when I see it'' about pornography. 
Mr. Fioretti was suggesting that he knows what's unethical, and the office doesn't, though he botched his jurisprudential history. The porn line was from another justice, Potter Stewart.
As for the office's being promiscuous in its labors, Steve Berlin, its longtime leader, persuasively squashed several of Mr. Fioretti's qualms with low-key aplomb.
The alderman did some final harrumphing and declared that the two men differed. He concluded that the office's annual budget -- now just $598,894 for a group competently overseeing ethics, campaign finance and lobbying issues -- is not ''prudently fiscal,'' as, presumably, opposed to being fiscally prudent.
But since we assume neither the king's English nor upright behavior from our elected officials, I viewed his miscues as a benign part of the free entertainment of a long day at the Council on Thursday.
Four departments paraded before the Committee on Budget and Government Operations, facing soft inquiries and receiving so many salutes to their bureaucrats' work that a libertarian would gag.
Aldermen want to stay on the best of terms with the folks who hear their requests to fix a pothole, erect a fence, replace a lamp, deal with gang-bangers and, as I would learn, procure an inflatable Jumping Jack for a block party. Their thank-you lists at times exceeded the litanies from Academy Award winners.
The day's big enchilada was the Police Department, led by Garry McCarthy, the central casting ''no-nonsense New York cop'' import. His large team arrived dressed to the nines, with more commendations and ribbons than are found on a May Day reviewing stand of a tin-pot dictatorship.
This law enforcement ''Project Runway'' was not mirrored by the business attire of the leaders of the ethics, cultural affairs and housing and economic development departments. But their sessions had their moments, even if the aldermanic and news media turnouts were tiny.
Andrew Mooney, a respected holdover from the Richard M. Daley regime, led the housing contingent. The interrogation focused on tax increment financing; what might be done with the head-turning 11,266 parcels of vacant city-owned land; and the frustrating matter of jobs.
''Cities are left to their own devices to stimulate their economies,'' Mr. Mooney said, summarizing the lay of the land in an era of scant state and federal help.
Aldermen wondered about how wards could get their mitts on T.I.F. revenues, seen as some magical elixir or at least, as Matthew O'Shea of the 19th Ward put it, ''the only tool I have in my repertoire'' for development.
The subject prompted a plaintive and nostalgia-filled call to revive vacant factory space from Richard Mell, the 33rd Ward alderman with eminence grise status who is the father-in-law of Rod Blagojevich, the convicted former governor.
He recalled long-gone days of workers hopping a bus to the Western Electric or Stewart-Warner plants, and his reverie continued until Carrie Austin, the committee chairwoman, interrupted:
''Alderman, can you wrap your story up?'' He gave way to lunch, and then the Department of Cultural Affairs and Special Events, led by Michelle Boone.
She inherits an operation rife with politically driven untidiness, including apparent violations of anti-patronage hiring mandates. There's also the challenge of following the impressive creative legacy of Lois Weisberg, her octogenarian predecessor.
There was no probing of Ms. Boone's vision beyond her plan to hold lots of community meetings. But John Arena, 45th Ward alderman, wondered why $400,000 budgeted for inflatable Jumping Jacks, a staple of block parties, was being cut in half.
Ms. Boone explained, and detailed a seemingly more efficient system of allocation that would not shirk block parties.
In this age of pension and budget debacles and tottering European economies, it's reassuring to know that, at least in Chicago, a few young citizens may get more bounce for the buck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); ETHICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LOBBYING (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); TAX LAW (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1356 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; STATE OF THE UNIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Set in Their Ways, But Still Very Flexible

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
DOMINIQUE MARTINET, 67, loves the noise surrounding her apartment in Manhattan, the roar of the buses, the conversations just begging to be overheard, the street-corner strains of music.
Her husband of five years, Andre Simonpietri Jr., prefers the silence of his country house in Woodbury, Conn. He is committed to open-air transportation, biking just about everywhere, including across the country for 10 weeks last spring.
''I asked myself, Do I think I can do it?'' he said. ''Then I made a plan to make it happen.'' 
Life is just one challenge after another with Mr. Simonpietri, 69, a retired engineering manager and Navy veteran whose cross-country bike ride was one in a series of methodical dares he has made to himself over the years.
While married to his first wife, who died from lymphoma in 1999, he scaled Mount Kilimanjaro and walked long days on the Appalachian Trail.
After he and Ms. Martinet married in 2006, he took up biking because his knees began to fail. When he gets off his bike, he can be found lavishing attention on the country house: painting, installing a tin roof, chopping firewood.
''He is happy to be retired,'' she said. ''I am still reluctant to consider myself as retired.''
He carefully plans his days. And once he's done, he tries to plan his wife's. He hasn't been having much luck, though.
Trying to tame Ms. Martinet is like trying to blow out the bubbles in Champagne. She and Mr. Simonpietri, who met in 1960 at a Red Cross lifesaving class when they were in separate high schools in and around Washington, D.C., are opposites in so many ways that their pairing is somewhat remarkable.
''We're both very intense people,'' said Ms. Martinet, a former consultant on international business who was briefly married in 1970 before seeking an annulment. ''The fact that we are both in our 60s, well, we're set in our ways.''
He is economical with his words; she is ebullient. He reads newspapers in the morning; she peruses the Internet. The country house (his) has no TV set; the city apartment (hers) plays the TV news nonstop. And where her idea of preparing a meal typically involved a microwave exclusively, he is strictly a conventional-oven man.
Yet the inevitable has happened. He is trying to sleep in the city despite the noise. She has become a consummate cook, whipping up bouillabaisse for him, and entertaining his five siblings and numerous cousins, many of whom visit frequently.
''We are both very social, and Andre is a wonderful host,'' Ms. Martinet said, ''although sometimes I think it was easier to work than to be retired and at home.''
When they travel together, which is often, their differences melt away. In the last five years they've been to Russia, Greece, France, Canada, Hawaii and California. She organized a reunion in 2010 of 32 of his family members on Corsica, where his grandfather lived many years. ''We are good travel buddies,'' she said.
In fact, they began their marriage with a road trip. Having amassed a lifetime of friends, they were reluctant to leave any out. So in place of one wedding reception, they had five. ''We wore our wedding garb at every reception,'' Ms. Martinet said.
The first was in Southbury, Conn.; the second, in Kent, Conn. The third was at the Metropolitan Club in Manhattan; No. 4 took place in Culpepper, Va., with his relatives (''Just 52 of his cousins showed up for that one,'' she said, tongue-in-cheek); and No. 5 was in Paris with Ms. Martinet's family.
In 2009 and 2010, she accompanied him on the Bike New York TD Bank Five Boro Bike Tour, a 42-mile exertion. ''I tried to get her to do some training or preparation,'' he said. ''We had a beautiful series of pictures from it: the Staten Island ferry, the Verrazano Bridge, at the restaurant with a bottle of Champagne. And in the last picture, she is in bed with the remote, which was too heavy at that point for her to pick up. But she managed to complete the ride.''
They have also kept the intensity of their romance alive. Each day of his bike trip last spring, he managed to locate a stamp and a mailbox or a mail carrier to send his wife a card or note. Once he reached Washington State, she flew out to meet him, driving one-day legs of his trip while he biked them, and meeting him for lunch and evenings at bed-and-breakfasts.
''That was the best week of the whole trip,'' he remembered. ''I feel very fortunate that she's here. My life would be pretty funky without her, down in the dirt, pretty gray.''
And while they do sometimes fight, he said his first marriage taught him, ''There's no sense carrying a grudge, don't try to keep score, let it go.''
''With Dominique,'' he added, ''I've learned that even when she is angry, she gets over it and gives it up, and then I know that she does love me.''
Ms. Martinet said: ''Andre is very protective of me, very loving and affectionate, and he tries to be accepting of my ways. Even though being married to him is a full-time job, he's worth it.''
''Small gestures make big impressions,'' she said. ''The biggest thing that I have learned from being married to Andre is how important it is to take care of each other and to show it with an act of love every single day no matter where we are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPPOSITES ATTRACTED: The couple on what could best be called common ground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (68%); PAINTING (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); LYMPHOMA (53%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (77%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (71%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (56%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1357 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Pizzas and Pessimism

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
BEING surprised by something nutty from Herman Cain's presidential campaign is like balking at an autopsy in a ''CSI'' episode: certain things go with the territory. Still, you had to pause and peel your jaw off the ground after watching an Internet ad for Cain that prompted considerable conversation last week.
In it Cain's chief of staff, who comes across mostly as an untidy salt-and-pepper mustache with a rumpled politico attached, delivers the needless reminder that Cain has ''run a campaign like nobody's ever seen.'' To prove the point he glowers meaningfully at the camera while sucking manfully on a cigarette. Alligators as border-patrol agents and nicotine for all: that's the Cain agenda. The candidate appears in close-up at the end of the commercial, flashing a grin that's two parts demented to one part demonic. Were there a thought bubble attached, it would say, ''In my wildest dreams I never thought you people would actually buy this pizza.'' 
Meanwhile Rick Perry, who would trade his five best pairs of custom-made cowboy boots for just one of Cain's percentage points in the polls, tried to steal the dubious thunder of the Herminator's 9-9-9 tax hallucination by announcing an either-or, multiple-choice tax phantasm of his own. It would compel you to hire an accountant to figure out whether you're best served by the existing code or by a 20 percent flat tax designed to spare you the accountant. If you go the 20 percent route, Perry said, you can file your returns on a postcard. I think he should add a deduction for taxpayers whose postcards promote national pride. I'll pick one with the Statue of Liberty. You can do Mount Rushmore or the Washington Monument.
In the midst of all this, two attention-commanding sets of numbers were released. One, from the Congressional Budget Office, confirmed an increasingly uneven distribution of wealth in this country, noting that the inflation-adjusted incomes of the most affluent Americans had grown much, much faster over the last three decades than the incomes of the middle class. The other, from a New York Times/CBS News poll, showed that 74 percent of Americans think the country is on the wrong track and 89 percent do not trust that government will do the right thing.
That's a chilling and extraordinary pessimism, grafted onto a 9.1 percent unemployment rate and projections of a grim economy for some time to come. And it makes the kookiness of the Republican primaries all the more disquieting. As the (later disputed) story goes, Nero fiddled while Rome burned. Cain's chief of staff smokes while the citizenry smolders.
The disconnect between the seriousness of our angst and the silliness of our politics -- between how big our problems are and how hopeless or just plain stuck the people who are supposed to address them seem -- defies belief. Right now the system isn't working, and a recognition of that is one of the ties that bind Occupy Wall Street and the Tea Party. They don't identify the same villains or promote the same solutions. But they're flowers of a shared frustration.
And neither movement is a marginal, renegade phenomenon. A recent Time magazine poll found that 54 percent of Americans have a favorable view of Occupy Wall Street, while 27 percent have a favorable view of the Tea Party. Even assuming some overlap, that translates into a great many people supportive of movements railing against the status quo. These Americans have lost faith in business as usual and government as usual. Small wonder, then, that the Times/CBS poll showed an approval rating for Congress now at 9 percent. Nine percent. I bet a higher percentage of Americans believe that Elvis and Michael Jackson are still alive and honeymooning on Lake Como after a wedding -- to each other -- in upstate New York.
REGARD for Congress isn't likely to rise over the 12 months until the election, given that Republicans and Democrats have largely slipped into campaign mode. For a while, over the summer, President Obama seemed to resist that, and came across as cool-headed and big-minded, his desire to legislate keener than his itch to agitate. But his newly frequent trips outside Washington and newly fiery rhetoric suggest that he has partly given up. In terms of real progress on jobs creation, infrastructure and other matters central to our economic predicament, we could be looking at a solid year of nothingness, and therein lies another of the moment's disconnects. Our need is urgent, but the possibility that it will be meaningfully addressed is remote.
The Congressional supercommittee charged with whittling down the national debt will hold a public hearing Tuesday. The heart beats faster. Already there are reports of a Democratic insistence on significant new taxes and a Republican opposition to same, which basically brings us back to where Obama and John Boehner left off. We're looking at an interminable November.
At least we'll have the Republican presidential candidates to marvel at. And Perry had a marvelous week, in the strict sense of the word. He revived questions about Obama's birth certificate. He also blamed his wretched debate performances on formats that denied candidates adequate time to ''lay out your ideas and concepts.''
Was it your impression that all he needed was a few more acres of oratorical stamping grounds and eloquence would be his? It was my impression that short-form or long-, Perry is to oratory what Weird Al Yankovic is to balladry. Only the humor isn't intentional.
Elsewhere in the Republican field, Jon Huntsman, the former ambassador to China, told a Chinese-food joke of questionable taste; Michele Bachmann started peddling Bachmann-campaign fleeces in exchange for $75 donations; and the Cain campaign announced that even without promises of commemorative clothing, it had raised $3 million this month. Cain was in a statistical dead heat with Mitt Romney, according to the Times/CBS News poll.
Some observers say that the absurdity of that is indeed a mirror of our distress -- that Americans are grasping at simplistic straws. But Cain's support won't last or turn out to have been all that meaningful. The poll's more consequential findings were that 6 in 10 Republican primary voters weren't paying close attention yet and 8 in 10 said it was too early to decide on a candidate.
What worries me isn't the Cain surge or the Bachmann boomlet before it, but the likelihood that when Americans do focus, more and more will see nothing hopeful happening and a motley crew of politicians who are merely blowing smoke.
What happens then?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGETS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (92%); RICK PERRY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1358 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Some of Season Is Lost, but N.B.A. Deal Is Tantalizingly Close

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
The new N.B.A. labor deal is practically done. You wouldn't know it from the headlines, the dour news conferences or the apocalyptic rhetoric spilling from league officials. But the deal, in practical terms, is about 95 percent complete.
The N.B.A. and the players union have agreed on contract lengths and luxury-tax rates, trade rules and cap exceptions, and a host of oddly named provisions offering ''amnesty'' and ''stretch payments'' and less onerous ''base-year'' rules. 
All of these pieces -- some favoring the players, most of them favoring the owners -- have fallen into place in recent weeks, even as talks collapsed and restarted and collapsed again. The checklist has been reduced to a few items.
But it is the last 5 percent that is ruining the prospects for labor peace and gradually eroding the N.B.A. season.
Four weeks of games are gone, and more could fall, because owners and players are still fighting over how to split $4 billion in revenue. The league wants a 50-50 split. The players want 52.5 percent.
In real terms, they are separated by about $100 million a year -- a hefty sum, but small in the context of these negotiations. They were once 20 percent and hundreds of millions apart.
The difficulty in closing the gap is psychological and financial.
The players, who last season earned 57 percent, have already made a $180 million concession. They have agreed to a harsher luxury tax, shorter contracts and smaller raises. They have made concessions on nearly every major item in the collective bargaining agreement -- a tacit admission that the league's economic woes are real and substantial and had to be addressed.
The final deal will, by any objective measure, heavily favor the owners when compared with the last two C.B.A.'s. Union leaders contend they have moved far enough.
The owners make the same claim. They initially demanded an absolute, hard salary cap, an $800 million rollback in salaries, elimination of guaranteed contracts and a 37 percent share for players. They have dropped all of those demands and are making the 50 percent offer over the objections of several small-market owners.
N.B.A. officials say the 50-50 split will barely get them to the break-even point, after losing $300 million last season. Moving beyond 50 percent would mean several more years of losses, they say, and small-market teams would remain handicapped, even with more revenue sharing.
If the union compromises further, it will agitate the high-powered agents, who could rally against ratification. If the N.B.A. compromises further, it risks a revolt from owners.
Neither side believes it can, or should, make another move. Their mutual intransigence has cost them a month of games and hundreds of millions in revenue.
Yet if the negotiating pattern holds -- and the breakdown in talks is quickly followed by another last-gasp return to the table -- it should not take long to complete the deal.
Tentative agreements are already in place on the following major items:
Luxury-tax rate: Teams will be charged $1.50 per $1 spent beyond a threshold, replacing the previous dollar-for-dollar tax, according to people who have seen the plan.
To further discourage spending, the tax will increase for every $5 million spent beyond the threshold: to $1.75 after $5 million, $2.25 after $10 million and $3 after $15 million.
Under this system, the Los Angeles Lakers would have paid $42.5 million in taxes last season, compared with $20 million under the old formula. (The rates could still change based on other tradeoffs.)
Contract lengths: Players with ''Bird'' rights will be eligible for five-year deals, while others will be limited to four. The previous C.B.A. allowed for six-year (Bird) and five-year deals. The 1999 C.B.A. allowed for seven-year (Bird) and six-year deals.
Raises: Annual raises will be reduced by several percentage points, possibly as low as 5 percent for Bird players and 3.5 percent for non-Bird players. The prior deal allowed raises as high as 10.5 percent (Bird) and 8 percent.
Midlevel exception: It will start at $5 million, a decrease of $800,000. The contract length and annual raises attached to the exception remain under discussion.
Amnesty clause: Each team will be permitted to waive one player, with pay -- anytime during the life of the C.B.A. -- and have his salary be exempt from the cap and the luxury tax. Its use will be limited to players already under contract as of July 1, 2011.
Stretch exception: Teams will be permitted to stretch out payments to waived players, spreading out the cap hit, over several seasons. The payment schedule will be set by doubling the years left on the contract and adding one. (Thus a team waiving a player with two years left could pay him over five years.)
There are a few critical issues still under debate. The N.B.A. wants to further punish tax-paying teams by denying them use of the midlevel exception and sign-and-trade deals, and wants additional penalties for ''repeat offenders.'' The union opposes those measures.
Nearly all of the new provisions will benefit the owners. In return, the players will gain an easing of trade rules and relaxed regulations on restricted free agents.
So the broad parameters of an agreement are in place. The gap on the revenue split is significant, but manageable. As N.B.A. officials have said many times, both sides know where the deal is -- they just have to get there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: D.J. Augustin of the Charlotte Bobcats played Thursday in a benefit game at the Schofield Army Barracks in Wahiawa, Hawaii. Exhibition games have proliferated during the N.B.A. lockout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUGH GENTRY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); SPORTS REVENUES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE BOBCATS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1359 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: What Tax Dollars Can't Buy

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
OVER the last 30 years, the U.S. economy has generated more large fortunes and more stress for the middle class. While the rich have grown extraordinarily rich, median wages have barely increased, the costs of health care and higher education have jumped, and socioeconomic mobility has lagged behind that of other developed nations. Americans have never begrudged the wealthy their success, as long as they had a chance to rise higher than their parents, and perhaps get rich themselves. But our era of diminished expectations is putting that in doubt.
From the drum circles of Zuccotti Park to the hustings of Barack Obama's re-election push, a suddenly invigorated liberalism thinks that it has the answer to this angst: a renewed demand for higher taxes on America's richest 1 percent. And if all you care about is reducing measured income inequality, then the Occupy Wall Streeters and their Democratic admirers have it right. Tax millionaires sufficiently and you'll end up with a more equal society. The tallest poppies will be trimmed, and some of their income will find its way to someone's else pocket. 
But true social mobility and broadly shared prosperity are not so easily achieved. Remember that those tax dollars, once collected, would not be disbursed with perfect effectiveness to the most deserving members of the American middle class. Instead, they would be used to buy a little more time for our failing public institutions -- postponing a reckoning with unsustainable pension commitments, delaying necessary reforms in our entitlement system and propping up an educational sector whose results don't match the costs.
More spending in these areas won't necessarily buy us more mobility. The public-sector workplace has become a kind of artificial Eden, whose fortunate inhabitants enjoy solid pay and 1950s-style job security and retirement benefits, all of it paid for by their less-fortunate private-sector peers. Some on the left have convinced themselves that this ''success'' can lay the foundation for a broader middle-class revival. But if a bloated public sector were the blueprint for a thriving middle-class society, then the whole world would be beating a path to Greece's door.
Our entitlement system, meanwhile, is designed to redistribute wealth. But this redistribution doesn't go from the idle rich to the working poor; it goes from young to old, working-age savings to retiree consumption, middle-class parents to empty-nest seniors. The Congressional Budget Office's new report on income inequality points out that growing Medicare costs are part of the reason upper-income retirees receive a larger share of federal spending than they did 30 years ago, while working-age households with children receive ''a much smaller and declining share of transfers.'' Absent reforms, this mismatch will only grow more pronounced: by the 2030s, Medicare recipients will receive $3 in benefits for every dollar they paid in.
Then there's the public education system, theoretically the nation's most important socioeconomic equalizer. Yet even though government spending on K-to-12 education has more than doubled since the 1970s, test scores have flatlined and the United States has fallen behind its developed-world rivals. Meanwhile, federal spending on higher education has been undercut by steadily inflating tuitions, in what increasingly looks like an academic answer to the housing bubble. (If the Occupy Wall Street dream of student loan forgiveness were fulfilled, this cycle would probably just continue.)
The story of the last three decades, in other words, is not the story of a benevolent government starved of funds by selfish rich people and fanatical Republicans. It's a story of a public sector that has consistently done less with more, and a liberalism that has often defended the interests of narrow constituencies -- public-employee unions, affluent seniors, the education bureaucracy -- rather than the broader middle class.
The alternative to this liberalism should not, however, be the kind of reverse class warfare currently being championed by the not-Romney candidates in the Republican field, whose flat-tax fantasies would ask working Americans to bear more of the burden for public institutions that have been failing them for years.
Rather, it should be a kind of small-government egalitarianism, which would seek to reform the government before we pour more money into it, along lines that encourage upward mobility and benefit the middle class. This would mean seeking a carefully means-tested welfare state, a less special interest-friendly tax code, and a public sector that worked for taxpayers and parents rather than the other way around.
This was the potential message that had some of us excited about the prospects of either a Mitch Daniels or a Chris Christie candidacy. Given his background and his bank account, Mitt Romney is an unlikely champion for a more egalitarian conservatism. But it wouldn't be the first time that an American patrician has emerged as a champion of the common man.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON/VII) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MEDICARE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1360 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 4765 words

HEADLINE: In China, an Internet joke is not always just a joke. It's a form of defiance -- and the government is not amused.

BYLINE: By BROOK LARMER

 BODY:
The cellphone vibrated softly, insistently, echoing off the whitewashed walls of the artist's studio. It was a Sunday morning in early April, and Wang Bo -- an Internet animator better known to his legions of online fans by his nickname, Pi San -- ignored the call at first. He wanted no intrusions. A compact 40-year-old with short-cropped hair and arched eyebrows that give him a look of permanent bemusement, Pi San is most famous for creating a mischievous cartoon character named Kuang Kuang, but he earns money by making animations for corporations, and he was on a deadline. Pi San had bicycled to his studio in a defunct factory building on the outskirts of Beijing that morning, hoping to finish up some work in peace. But the buzzing of the phone didn't stop.
The moment Pi San picked up, the caller blurted out the news: State security agents had just detained Ai Weiwei, China's most famous contemporary artist and a government critic. Pi San spat out a profanity. Over the previous six weeks, hundreds of bloggers -- lawyers, activists, journalists -- had vanished into police custody in one of the harshest assaults on social activism in decades. Now they had Ai -- fat, brilliant, bombastic and internationally renowned. If Ai could be arrested, was any independent thinker in China safe? 
Pi San had reason to be scared. He and Ai were friends. A few weeks earlier, over lunch, the two artists talked about collaborating on a satirical Internet animation. Though a bit wary of Ai's Web activism, Pi San admired his daring solo exhibitions in New York, Berlin and London. The most recent show had consisted of 100 million sunflower seeds made of porcelain, laid out across the floor of the Tate Modern, which visitors were invited to walk upon. Some considered the seeds to be symbols of the downtrodden Chinese people.
Despite his fear, Pi San quickly posted the news about Ai's detention on Sina Weibo, China's closely monitored equivalent of Twitter and the fastest-growing Internet platform in the world. An invisible censor deleted the message in seconds. He then tried posting, without comment, a cartoon drawing of Ai, the better to evade China's word-sensitive filtering software. But the image disappeared, too -- a sign that a human being, not computer software, had deleted the drawing. Pi San told his Weibo followers: ''Again I was 'harmonized.' It's just a picture!''
Now the creative synapses started firing. ''I had to do something to lift the fear,'' Pi San told me later. ''Others might write or protest; I make animations.'' He and a colleague worked feverishly through the night on a 54-second flash animation entitled ''Crack Sunflower Seeds.'' The animation takes place in Kuang Kuang's school, where a little girl is speaking over the loudspeakers. ''Once upon a time,'' she begins, ''there was a Chinese man selling sunflower seeds.'' Suddenly, a black cartoon hand yanks her off the set. A succession of trembling announcers tries to tell the same story, but the black hand pulls them off too, each time more quickly than the last.
Finally, it is Kuang Kuang's turn. The boy hems and haws and, giving up, sighs in exasperation: ''Ai.'' A word bubble appears with the Chinese character for the sigh ( ), virtually the same as Ai's surname ( ). Kuang Kuang is hauled off, screaming. In the next frame, the black hand sweeps away sunflower seeds arranged in the same ''Ai.'' Then we hear a grating sound -- teeth meeting porcelain -- followed by an off-screen scream: ''Damn it! Who sold us these fake sunflower seeds?''
Pi San finished the animation before dawn on April 4, less than 24 hours after Ai was detained. ''I hesitated for a second before posting it online,'' he told me. ''But then I thought, If I don't put it up, that would be like self-castration.'' With a few clicks, he sent ''Crack Sunflower Seeds'' into cyberspace, posting it onto China's top video Web sites. In just a few hours, a million or more netizens watched the animation online. Then the video began disappearing from Chinese Web sites one by one, just like the announcers in his animation. Pi San lashed out directly at the censors in a Weibo post: ''You're like the eunuch who gets worried before the emperor does!'' There was no response. Even in his anger, Pi San was left wondering if the black hand would come for him.
No government in the world pours more resources into patrolling the Web than China's, tracking down unwanted content and supposed miscreants among the online population of 500 million with an army of more than 50,000 censors and vast networks of advanced filtering software. Yet despite these restrictions -- or precisely because of them -- the Internet is flourishing as the wittiest space in China. ''Censorship warps us in many ways, but it is also the mother of creativity,'' says Hu Yong, an Internet expert and associate professor at Peking University. ''It forces people to invent indirect ways to get their meaning across, and humor works as a natural form of encryption.''
To slip past censors, Chinese bloggers have become masters of comic subterfuge, cloaking their messages in protective layers of irony and satire. This is not a new concept, but it has erupted so powerfully that it now defines the ethos of the Internet in China. Coded language has become part of mainstream culture, with the most contagious memes tapping into widely shared feelings about issues that cannot be openly discussed, from corruption and economic inequality to censorship itself. ''Beyond its comic value, this humor shows where netizens are pushing against the boundaries of the state,'' says Xiao Qiang, an adjunct professor at the University of California, Berkeley, whose Web site, China Digital Times, maintains an entertaining lexicon of coded Internet terms. ''Nothing else gives us a clearer view of the pressure points in Chinese society.''
So pervasive is this irreverent subculture that the Chinese have a name for it: egao, meaning ''evil works'' or, more roughly, ''mischievous mockery.'' In its simplest form, egao (pronounced ''EUH-gow'') lampoons the powerful without being overtly rebellious. President Hu Jintao's favorite buzz word, ''harmony,'' which he deploys constantly when urging social stability, is hijacked to signify censorship itself, as in, ''My blog's been harmonized.'' June 4, the censored date of the 1989 massacre of pro-democracy protesters, is rendered as May 35 -- or ''535.'' There are also more complex forms of egao, like Hu Ge's 2010 film spoof, ''Animal World,'' in which a rare species of Internet users is ''saved'' from ''compulsive thinking disorder,'' i.e., the urge to think freely.
Satire is sometimes a safety valve that government might grudgingly permit. Better a virtual laugh, after all, than a real protest. But being laughed at, as Orwell found during his stint as a colonial police officer in Burma, can also be a ruler's greatest fear. And the Chinese government, which last year sentenced a woman to a year of hard labor for a sarcastic three-word tweet, appears to suffer from an acute case of humor deficiency. ''Jokes that mock the abuse of power do more than let off steam; they mobilize people's emotions,'' says Wen Yunchao, an outspoken blogger who often mounts sardonic Internet campaigns in defense of free speech. ''Every time a joke takes off,'' Wen says, ''it chips away at the so-called authority of an authoritarian regime.''
Satirical threads sweeping across the Internet can often seem like brush fires whose origins are lost in the conflagration. But behind every outbreak are individuals probing the limits of self-expression, flirting, often perilously, with the blurry line between the permissible and the punishable. Over the past several months I followed two individuals -- the animator Pi San and the blogger Wen Yunchao -- in an effort to understand the dynamics of ''mischievous mockery'' and the increasingly serious game of cat-and-mouse taking place along China's digital front lines.
Pi San and Wen are perfect counterpoints -- a northerner and a southerner who approach egao from different angles. One specializes in visual images, the other mainly in words. Pi San shudders at being considered an activist; he sees satire as an artistic way to vent personal frustration. Wen wears the activist label proudly; he views humor as a ''weapon of the weak'' to mobilize civil society. As the government crackdown intensified, each man was forced to adjust his calculations of danger and opportunity: How far could they go before they crossed the invisible line?
Wen learned the true power of Internet humor not from a joke but from a cry for help from a police interrogation room. Early one morning in July 2009, Wen, who is 39, woke up in his apartment in the southern city of Guangzhou to find a startling message on his Twitter feed: ''I have been arrested by Mawei police, SOS.'' The jailhouse tweet was from Guo Baofeng, a young friend and fellow blogger, referring to a district in the coastal city Xiamen, some 300 miles away. Minutes later came another tweet from Guo, also in English: ''Pls help me, I grasped the phone during police sleep.''
Then there was nothing.
Wen knew how easily people could disappear into the labyrinths of China's prison system. Guo, who was then a 25-year-old English-language translator, had reposted a video in which the mother of a gang-raped murder victim accused local Xiamen authorities of a cover-up. Now Wen wondered how far the police would go to muzzle the messenger.
The tweets from detention -- and the silence that followed -- unsettled Wen. But what could he do? Any direct protest would be shut down immediately, even if people could overcome their fear to participate. Then he noticed a phrase that was going viral on the Internet: ''Jia Junpeng, your mother is calling you home for dinner!''
The line's origins were a mystery, but the online masses latched onto it as a joking commentary on their Web-addicted generation -- lost in cyberspace, unreachable by the outside world. That very day, millions retweeted the phrase. Wen, though, gave it a new twist. He urged his tens of thousands of microblog followers to send postcards to the Mawei police station and post photos of them online, all with the same words: ''Guo Baofeng, your mother is calling you home for dinner!''
Nobody can know if the Internet campaign made a difference. But instead of being lost in the prison system -- four other bloggers arrested for reposting the same video were sentenced to one to two years in prison -- Guo was released after 16 days. For Wen, the incident crystallized his thinking. ''Humor can amplify the power of the social media,'' he told me. ''If it hits a nerve, like a case of injustice or abuse, it can be contagious. It's indirect -- just a joke, right? -- so people lose their fear of getting involved.''
Growing up as the oldest child in a poor family in rural Guangdong Province, Wen wasn't always keen to get involved himself. When army tanks crushed the 1989 pro-democracy movement in Beijing, Wen, who was then a middle-school student prone to skipping class, applauded the crackdown. ''I agreed with the government that it was necessary to prevent chaos,'' he recalls. Wen's most daring act in college -- he was assigned to study machine welding at a technical institute in Harbin, a city in China's icy far north -- was to smuggle in Cantonese pornography and pop music to help him endure the long winters.
His Internet ''awakening,'' as he calls it, came years later, when he toiled at a power station near Guangzhou. One night after clocking out, Wen watched a television special beamed in from nearby Hong Kong that contradicted the official story of the 1989 massacre. Finding a trove of information online to confirm its veracity -- this was before the Great Firewall, erected in 2003, blocked such terms as ''June 4'' -- he emerged with a new conviction: ''The Internet will open the door of democracy.''
Hungry to learn more, Wen transformed himself over the next decade into an information machine, first as a journalist and then as a blogger. Covering events for state-run newspapers and, later, for government television, he produced reports and commentaries that toed the official line. On the Internet, though, he adopted a more freewheeling persona, writing a popular blog called Ramblings of a Drunkard under a pseudonym. Soon, Wen moved full time online, working for the Chinese Internet company Netease and moonlighting as one of the country's earliest citizen journalists. His first article, typed into his cellphone, chronicled the 2007 street protests in Xiamen that succeeded in halting construction of a chemical plant.
The censors were never far behind, turning Wen's life into a perpetual game of hide-and-seek. First a few posts were blocked, then his entire blog, then the Chinese Internet portal he used. An overseas Web server worked until the Great Firewall shut it out too. Riding the next wave of technology, Wen began typing out 140-character blasts on Twitter and China's fast-growing microblogging sites. Weibo, a Twitter equivalent that barely existed two years ago, now has 200 million users, churning out some 40 million messages a day. The government, hard-pressed to keep up, leans on Web companies to censor their own content in return for ''self-discipline'' points needed to renew licenses. ''No place is safe anymore,'' Wen says. ''But whenever censorship grows, so do the opportunities for sarcasm and satire.''
Not long ago, Wen even dared to target China's most unassailable icon: Mao Zedong. The chairman has been dead for 35 years, but his massive portrait still presides over Tiananmen Square. It is just one sign of what Wen calls the ''awful influence'' wielded by the founder of the People's Republic. Ridiculing Mao is almost unthinkable in China today. Even so, on the anniversary of Mao's death in 2009, Wen urged his online followers to join a devious ''de-Maoification'' campaign. Since ''mao'' is also the Chinese word for ''hair,'' he suggested posting before-and-after shots of shaved body parts -- people literally ''getting rid of mao.''
Wen is a beer-bellied man with a thick Abraham Lincoln-style beard. Among the hundreds of images of shorn beards and hair-free legs that flashed across the Web that day was Wen's own contribution: a photo of his rotund belly with its hair in a topiary of the ''t'' of the Twitter logo. Wen's abdominal salute was funny, but it was also a manifesto for a more open China -- and a dangerous move in his showdown with Chinese authorities.
When Pi San was a young boy -- around the same age as his impish creation, Kuang Kuang -- his parents used to smack his hand with a ruler every time they caught him drawing cartoons in the margins of his school books. ''I was a mediocre student,'' says Pi San, whose family lived in a bleak copper-mining town in the hills of Shanxi Province. ''My parents thought my doodling doomed me to a life in the mine.''
Despite the punishment, Pi San kept drawing, even selling caricatures of Kung Fu heroes to his friends. Nearly two decades later, Pi San runs Hutoon, the animation company he founded in 2005. Hutoon's staff of 50 young designers fills most of a floor in ''798,'' a trendy district of art galleries, studios and cafes built on the remnants of a military electronics factory in northeastern Beijing. The young men and women -- most dressed in black, like their boss -- huddle over banks of computers, the clicketyclack of keyboards resounding in the high-ceilinged industrial space.
When I first visited his fourth-floor studio in early March, Pi San seemed to move easily between his roles as entrepreneur and provocateur, a reflection of what he jokingly calls his multiple-personality disorder. A few years ago, Hutoon produced an animated series for China Central Television -- the government's main propaganda arm -- but Pi San chafed at the lack of creative freedom. ''Even CCTV's cartoons are all about indoctrination, not entertainment,'' he said. Now he and his staff crank out animated Internet ads and videos for clients including rock stars and Fortune 500 firms like Motorola and Samsung.
In mid-April, I watched Pi San and his crew work on an episode of ''Ms. Puff,'' Hutoon's most lucrative animation series. Centered on a risque but apolitical female character -- censors notice Puff only when the strap on her camisole slips -- the series is the first original animated content commissioned by Youku, the Chinese equivalent of YouTube. Two weeks earlier, Youku had been one of the first Web sites to delete his anti-censorship satire, ''Crack Sunflower Seeds.'' This didn't matter to Pi San. Hutoon's financial future depended on the success of ''Ms. Puff.'' ''You have to have a split personality to succeed in China,'' he told me. ''With some animations, I make money. With others, I just make fun.''
That afternoon, though, the boss was preoccupied. There was no news of Ai Weiwei, and Pi San's thoughts about the future -- that of his wife and their 7-year-old son -- cycled between anger, fear and resignation. Leaving Hutoon's main studio, he led me to a back room filled with heaps of corrugated cardboard, which were the miniature sets used in the Kuang Kuang animations. ''This is where I come when my emotions are running high,'' Pi San said, bending down to examine the eight-inch-tall room that loomed large in ''Crack Sunflower Seeds.''
Nearby was a tiny school building featured in Pi San's first Kuang Kuang satire in 2009, a mordant swipe at the education system called ''Blow Up the School.'' An instant Internet sensation among Chinese youth, the animation generated a few million hits on its first day and so angered officials that they slapped him with a fine for ''inappropriate content.'' As more irreverent Kuang Kuang videos appeared, Internet fan clubs formed in nearly every Chinese province, turning the bubbleheaded boy and his creator into minor cult figures.
None of Pi San's work has evoked China's social ills more provocatively than ''Little Rabbit, Be Good,'' made last January. The four-minute ''greeting card'' to mark the Chinese Year of the Rabbit begins as a soothing bedtime story about bunny rabbits. But as Kuang Kuang drifts off to sleep, the story morphs into a nightmare. Ruled by tigers (the outgoing zodiac sign) who promise to ''build a harmonious forest'' -- a pointed jab at Hu Jintao's catchphrase -- the rabbits suffer an endless series of abuses. Babies die from drinking poisoned milk. A protester fighting forced eviction gets crushed under a tiger's car. A reckless driver kills a rabbit in a hit-and-run and boasts about his high-level police protection.
The thinly disguised allegory is based on real-life events that sparked outrage on the Internet. The ending, however, is sheer fantasy. Instead of accepting their fate, the rabbits rise up in revolt, ripping their tiger overlords apart with their bare teeth in a catharsis of ''South Park''-style violence. The uprising ends with a warning: ''Even rabbits bite when they are pushed.''
Pi San knew ''Little Rabbit'' might have crossed the line. After consulting a fortuneteller -- ''I wanted to know if this would cause me trouble,'' he said -- he hedged his bets, uploading the video to a few small fan Web sites in the middle of the night. ''Little Rabbit'' still received more than 70,000 hits within two hours, he says. By the time censors deleted the versions proliferating across the Internet two days later, an estimated three to four million people had seen it. Local media didn't touch the story, but foreign journalists pressed him on the video's political message. His coy response: ''I only made a fairy tale.''
Pi San's dark satire landed just as popular revolutions fueled by social media in Tunisia and Egypt were beginning to topple dictators. A few weeks later, Chinese bloggers who alluded online to the possibilities of a similar ''jasmine'' revolution in China would be detained. ''I was worried,'' Pi San admitted. ''The line moves all the time, so we never know where we stand.''
Most Chinese Internet users don't give the invisible line between acceptable satire and detainable offense a second thought. They may know it exists, but their online activities -- shopping, blogging, gaming, networking -- remain safely within the confines of the Great Firewall. But the boundary is of the utmost concern for a growing number of artists and activists. ''The government's primary means of control is the fuzzy line,'' says David Bandurski, a researcher at the China Media Project at Hong Kong University. ''No one ever knows exactly where the line is. The control apparatus is built on uncertainty and self-censorship, on creating this atmosphere of fear.''
Wen felt the line shift a year ago, after judges in Oslo awarded the Nobel Peace Prize to the jailed Chinese writer Liu Xiaobo. Few Chinese had ever heard of the man behind Charter 08, the human-rights declaration that, like Liu's name, was banned inside the Great Firewall. But the government was apoplectic. Chinese officials smeared the ''criminal'' Liu in the press, pressured foreign countries to boycott the ceremony and blocked a raft of new words on the Internet, even ''Norway'' and ''Nobel.''
When the banned words extended to the phrase ''empty chair'' -- the most conspicuous sign of Liu's absence at the Nobel ceremony -- Wen hit on an idea. If the words were not allowed, why not post photos of empty chairs as a tribute to Liu? ''Everyone has an empty chair,'' Wen pleaded with his 40,000-plus followers on Twitter and Weibo. ''If we only watch, then one day [the empty chair] might appear by your family's dining table as well.'' At his urging, bloggers posted dozens of seemingly innocuous pictures online, from an empty chair in a Van Gogh painting to a magazine ad for an Ikea lounger. The censors eventually caught on to the joke, but not before Wen had turned a bit of microblog mischief into a human rights statement.
Three months later came the broad crackdown seeming to stem from Beijing's paranoia about the possible domestic repercussions from the uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa. Wen was visiting Hong Kong when he received an e-mail warning from Chinese public-security agents: ''Don't come home. You'll be arrested before you even see your wife and son.'' His was now the empty chair. Wen decided to wait out the threats in Hong Kong, which is governed by different laws than the rest of China. Wen's absence may have spared him detention or prison, but now he was in limbo.
When I visited Wen in Hong Kong in April, he was living in a temporary apartment with a row of shirts drip-drying in the window. Dinner consisted of a six-pack of beer followed by sausages fried up at 1 a.m. At one point, he pulled out his BlackBerry. ''Gone, gone, gone,'' Wen said, as he scrolled down a list of friends who had vanished, most likely into police custody.
Wen's Twitter account was now swarming with the gadflies of the 50-Cent Party, which is the nickname for commentators who reportedly get paid 50 Chinese cents for every pro-government post. He showed me the barrage of disparaging tweets he had received, along with two fake Twitter accounts the 50-Centers had set up to look like his. More menacing were the text warnings from anonymous senders who seemed to know everything about him: his identification number, his travel itineraries, even details about his wife, his 10-year-old son and his parents.
Early in the evening, Wen scoffed at the intimidation attempts. ''The government has too much invested in the Internet financially to shut it down, so all it can do is resort to scare tactics,'' he said. But as the night wore on and the beer cans piled up, he confided: ''I'm worried they might pick me up even here in Hong Kong. I'm even more frightened for my family.''
The following day, I joined Wen on an excursion to Lingnan University, along Hong Kong's border with mainland China, where he was to give a talk about Internet activism. On the train ride out, he spoke about his tenuous life in Hong Kong. A local satellite television company had hired him to develop a show that would beam propaganda-free reports into China. At night, Wen still tweeted prodigiously, launching jokes and spoofs over the Great Firewall, like a medieval catapulter outside the castle ramparts. His wife and son would join him in Hong Kong months later, but Wen's inability to return freely to his homeland left him depressed. ''I got angry the other day when a friend called me a liuwang, an exile,'' he told me. ''It's such a sad word. I never thought it would apply to me.''
At the university that evening, a table covered in red velvet had been set up on a small outdoor stage. Wen was handed a microphone, but it proved unnecessary. Fewer than a dozen students stopped to listen. The train home skirted within a few hundred yards of the mainland Chinese border. Hurtling through the darkness, Wen looked up from his BlackBerry and gazed out toward the border, the one line he may never cross again.
As a cocoon of heat and smog enveloped Beijing last June, Pi San began to wilt. Two months had passed since Ai Weiwei was detained, and the artist's fate and whereabouts were still unknown. The police had also detained another close friend of Pi San's, the rock musician Zuoxiao Zuzhou, just days after a live performance in which the words ''Free Ai Weiwei!'' appeared on a giant screen above him. The musician was released within a day, but Pi San was spooked. He shelved an idea for another Kuang Kuang satire and began, for the first time, to consider seriously his friends' advice to leave the country.
Then, on June 22, came a surprise: Ai reappeared at his home after 81 days in detention. The artist provocateur, much thinner now, was uncharacteristically silent. Though not formally charged with a crime, he was still under a form of house arrest ''pending further investigation'' into tax fraud. Two days later, Pi San rode his electric bicycle to the blue door of Ai's studio -- ''like a delivery boy,'' he said. High-spirited as ever, Ai marched back and forth across the small room, showing Pi San how he had lost so much weight. The two friends talked for hours. Given Ai's house arrest, their plan to collaborate on a satirical animation would have to wait. When Pi San was about to leave, Ai gave him a memento from his days in custody: a couple of stale biscuits, part of his ''detention diet.''
Many artists and bloggers interpreted Ai's release as merely a face-saving measure to help Premier Wen Jiabao avoid embarrassment when he traveled to Europe a few days later. Dozens of other lawyers and Internet activists were still held in detention without formal charges, while the harassment of others continued unabated. ''I can't say if anything has changed,'' Pi San said, ''but it was a big relief'' to see Ai back in his home.
I dropped by Pi San's studio again in July. This time, I found his 7-year-old son, his head shaved for summer, sitting at his father's wooden desk and playing a game on an iPad. Pi San shuffled around in shorts and sandals, relaxed and happy. His wife, a fellow painter whom he met at college, worked on accounting ledgers at a table nearby.
Business had never been better. The first 10 episodes of ''Ms. Puff'' had pulled in an average of two million viewers, more than half of them women between 18 and 30. The Youku series's success raised ad rates, Hutoon's largest source of revenue, and several other Web portals had approached Pi San with offers, eager to entice his young viewers to their sites too.
In his darkest moments, Pi San vowed never to make another satire again. Shadowboxing with censors and security agents was too nerve-racking, and the risks to his family were too high. Now, in the wake of Ai's release, his fear was subsiding. ''I think the government still looks at what I do as just cartoons, child's play,'' he said, struggling to explain why other artists and bloggers were detained or forced into exile while he escaped unscathed. It is a misconception Pi San is happy to embrace, even if, as he put it, ''animated cartoons may be the most realistic way to capture the absurdity of our country.''
Not long ago, Pi San started gravitating, once again, to the back room filled with miniature cardboard sets. ''I think I have a few moves left,'' he said. He has already mapped out three new Kuang Kuang episodes. The theme of the next one? Pi San flashed a little grin. ''It's a game of hide-and-seek.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pi San in his studio in Beijing with Ms. Puff , a popular (apolitical) creation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONG CHAO) (MM35)
A. Pi San's thinly veiled parable of the detention of the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, featuring Pi San's popular character Kuang Kuang and the word ''Ai'' depicted in sunfl ower seeds. (MM36)
B. Pi San's Year of the Rabbit ''greeting card'': A rabbit will endure only so much brutality before it bites the tiger back. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HUTOON ANIMATION) (MM37)
 The Exile: Wen Yunchao at his apartment in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WEI LENG TAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); ARRESTS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); WRITERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1361 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CULTURAL STUDIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: The Good Divorce

BYLINE: By SUSAN GREGORY THOMAS. 
Susan Gregory Thomas is the author of ''In Spite of Everything: A Memoir.''

 BODY:
I NEVER wanted to get divorced. My parents' split had been like an antipersonnel bomb, ripping everyone to pieces. So for 16 years, I stayed married.
But the relationship curdled over time, and, ultimately, it rotted into nothing. The contrast of these two endings always reminds me of that pithy old Robert Frost poem ''Fire and Ice,'' in which passion leads to detonation and dispassion to gelidity. In both cases, it's over and terrible.
Frankly, hearing the word-sandwich of ''good'' and ''divorce'' -- which I do with some frequency -- makes me queasy. Bluntly, there is precious little upside to divorce. It is a horror, its effects on everyone are real and enduring, and in a parenting culture that sees skinned knees as spiritual gifts, it can seem as if we're giving our children the big door prize of relentless psycho-economic distress. It is hard to feel as if one is a good, divorced parent. But one can try. 
Weirdly, and mercifully, ending our marriage was not utterly devastating. My former husband and I were, and are, never going to have one of those California divorces, where the exes all sit around the Hockney-style pool drinking Chablis. Not our style. But we have concentrated not on our rancor but on our children. Like most divorced people our age we know.
''It could be that, because this group is marrying later in life, if at all -- and mostly staying together -- if they do get divorced, they do it very differently,'' said Betsey Stevenson, an assistant professor at the Wharton School of Business who tracks marriage and divorce trends.
''Differently'' may not sound like a radical move, but in the annals of American divorce, it actually is. First of all, ''this group'' (by and large, Generation X, born between 1965 and 1980) according to Dr. Stevenson's research and census data, does a full recon to avoid divorce in advance, to the extent that nearly 60 percent of us now live with their future spouses before marrying. Almost 80 percent of us over all have made it a decade into marriage, a good indicator of marital longevity.
So it makes sense that if we do divorce, we do our due diligence there, too. Consider that just 30 years ago, only three states upheld joint custody; today, all do. Also consider that divorce mediation and collaborative divorce are on the rise, a result of parents' wanting to spare children the horrors of the Kramer v. Kramer bloodbaths of their own childhoods. Survey the increasing legions of exes who continue to share homes, holidays, vacations to preserve a sense of family for the children.
Part of doing my due diligence includes keeping an eye on the newswire. I always read every study I can find on the impact of divorce in children, and they are all deeply upsetting. On a hopeful note, however, many conclude that if the parents maintain open, friendly relations, children do -- in time -- develop in as well-adjusted a way as anyone. Which gives me some feeling of faith, even as I am terrified that it is not true.
Then I read a report that squashed all that: Children of divorce score worse in math and social skills, and suffer from lower self-esteem than those from non-divorce households, period. Published in the June issue of American Sociological Review, the author, Hyun Sik Kim -- a doctoral candidate at the University of Wisconsin, Madison -- formulated this devastating conclusion: ''After the divorce, students return to the same growth rate as their counterparts ... But they remain behind their peers from intact families.''
It got worse. Mr. Kim attributed the setbacks to factors like fighting and potentially depressed parents, dividing time between parents, and financial hardship.
The blood dropped from my brain straight into my heart: My kids endured all those risk factors. There was no question that I became depressed and freaked out; the recessed and post-divorce money situation was rough. My girls' father and I have joint custody, so they spend a week with him and a week with me; in other words, they shift households regularly. Again: all the risk factors.
As if on cue, our older child had had a very difficult third-grade year, two years ago, in which she was at the vortex of a mean-girl tornado. She'd always had an entrenched sense of justice, but when she perceived that a classmate had deeply violated her code, the propulsion of her hate-mongering was breathtaking. Her father and I were dumbfounded: ''Heathers'' -- really?
Then, our younger one had reading and math problems. We couldn't understand: She was so bright, so eager to learn, had such an allusive imagination. What was the problem?
We talked about it -- again, a small but radical move. Indeed, our divorce, while heartbreaking, in many ways strengthened our core friendship. My parents' fiery demise, like many of their peers,' had meant that not only had they not talked about the problems my brother and I were having, but they ''talked'' only through their lawyers and eviscerated each other's character in front of us.
I wonder sometimes: Do those marriages that suffered from a lack of heat while intact generally produce better divorced parents? ''I think those of us who don't feel any sense of jealousy or having been spurned have an easier time talking with each other about our children,'' said a Brooklyn author and divorcing mother who asked that her name not be used. ''We can rewrite the 'divorce' script.''
I tend to agree. It had unquestionably contributed to the ruin of our marriage that my former husband and I had been friends rather than devoted spouses, but in this case, there but for the grace of God went we. It was a no-brainer for my children's dad and me to double up on strengthening the only risk factor that our children had not had to suffer: bickering, blaming ex-spouses.
We then hunkered down, talked candidly daily, shared observations about each child's behavior and what we could do in our respective households to maintain a unified system. We met with the school psychologist to puzzle through the subtext of the queen-bee situation; we got extra help in reading and math for our younger child.
To our older daughter, we asked her to consider the possibility that she was angry and confused about all the really hard changes in her life, and that she might well be scapegoating her classmate as a way of channeling those powerful feelings. To our younger one, we practiced reading at the same time every day, at Mom's and at Dad's.
Gradually, the difficulties lifted. Our older daughter ultimately came around; without prompting, she apologized to her target in a thoughtful, responsible way, and was forgiven. We haven't seen any repeat since.
Our younger child's reading has blossomed; she even writes her own books now. Math is still hard. But we're working on it. The teachers' conferences and report cards have brought tears to our eyes: Everyone is working so hard.
My former husband and I were not good spouses. But we admire and trust each other. We do not do anything perfectly. We are stressed, we struggle financially, we're not great at masking our feelings on certain days. We know there are more problems ahead, a lifetime of them. We do not bicker; we talk about the kids every day. We don't know what else to do. We love these children. Like every other parent we know.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PARENTING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); TRENDS (68%); GENERATION X (68%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (66%); CENSUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1362 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: A Deal That Wouldn't Sting

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
AFTER months of back and forth, a deal that is supposed to punish large financial institutions for foreclosure misconduct may be nigh.
While the exact terms remain under wraps, some aspects of this agreement -- between banks on one side, and the federal government and a raft of state attorneys general on the other -- are coming into focus.
Things could change, of course, and the deal could go by the boards. But here's the state of play, according to people who have been briefed on the negotiations but were not authorized to discuss them publicly. 
Cutting to the chase: if you thought this was the deal that would hold banks accountable for filing phony documents in courts, foreclosing without showing they had the legal right to do so and generally running roughshod over anyone who opposed them, you are likely to be disappointed.
This may not qualify as a shock. Accountability has been mostly A.W.O.L. in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis. A handful of state attorneys general became so troubled by the direction this deal was taking that they dropped out of the talks. Officials from Delaware, New York, Massachusetts and Nevada feared that the settlement would preclude further investigations, and would wind up being a gift to the banks.
It looks as if they were right to worry. As things stand, the settlement, said to total about $25 billion, would cost banks very little in actual cash -- $3.5 billion to $5 billion. A dozen or so financial companies would contribute that money.
The rest -- an estimated $20 billion -- would consist of credits to banks that agree to reduce a predetermined dollar amount of principal owed on mortgages that they own or service for private investors. How many credits would accrue to a bank is unclear, but the amount would be based on a formula agreed to by the negotiators. A bank that writes down a second lien, for example, would receive a different amount from one that writes down a first lien.
Sure, $5 billion in cash isn't nada. But government officials have held out this deal as the penalty for years of what they saw as unlawful foreclosure practices. A few billion spread among a dozen or so institutions wouldn't seem a heavy burden, especially when considering the harm that was done.
The banks contend that they have seen no evidence that they evicted homeowners who were paying their mortgages. Then again, state and federal officials conducted few, if any, in-depth investigations before sitting down to cut a deal.
Shaun Donovan, secretary of Housing and Urban Development, said the settlement, which is still being worked out, would hold banks accountable. ''We continue to make progress toward the key goals of the settlement, which are to establish strong protections for homeowners in the way their loans are serviced across every type of loan and to ensure real relief for homeowners, including the most substantial principal writedown that has occurred throughout this crisis.''
Still, a mountain of troubled mortgages would not be covered by this deal. Borrowers with loans held by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be excluded, for example. Only loans that the banks hold on their books or that they service for investors would be involved.
One of the oddest terms is that the banks would give $1,500 to any borrower who lost his or her home to foreclosure since September 2008. For people whose foreclosures were done properly, this would be a windfall. For those wrongfully evicted, it would be pathetic. Roughly $1.5 billion in cash is expected to go into this pot.
The rest of the cash that would be paid by the banks is expected to be split this way: the federal government would get about $750 million, state bank regulators about $90 million. Participating states would share about $2.7 billion. That money is expected to finance legal aid programs, housing counselors and other borrower support. If 45 states participated, that would work out to about $60 million apiece.
OBVIOUSLY, the loan modifications would make up a majority of the deal. And this is where real questions arise. For example, how can we be sure this plan won't reward banks for modifications that they would have agreed to or should already have done absent the deal?
Perhaps most important, will the banks change the terms of loans enough to ensure that borrowers can actually meet their obligations over time? Or will these modifications default again, as is often the case? If so, the banks will have received a lucrative credit, even though borrowers fall back into trouble.
Such concerns are justified because past settlements promising big help to borrowers have failed to live up to their hype. An example is the 2008 settlement with Countrywide Financial that was struck by Illinois and California. Characterized as providing $8.7 billion in relief to troubled borrowers, it turned out to generate nowhere near that benefit.
The deal being discussed now may also release the big banks that are members of MERS, the electronic mortgage registry, from the threat of some future legal liability for actions involving that organization. MERS, which wreaked havoc with land records across the country, was sued last week by Beau Biden, Delaware's attorney general, on accusations of deceptive trade practices.
The MERS registry was also subpoenaed last week by Eric Schneiderman, the attorney general of New York, as part of his investigation into the fun-while-it-lasted mortgage securitization fest. If he were to sign on to the settlement, his investigation into MERS could not move forward.
''Rules matter,'' Mr. Biden said in announcing his suit. ''A homeowner has the obligation to pay the mortgage on time and lenders must follow the rules if they are seeking to take away someone's house through foreclosure.''
Abiding by the rules has not been the modus operandi in the foreclosure arena. That's why any settlement must be tough, truly beneficial to borrowers and monitored for compliance. Otherwise, the deal would be another case where our government let the big banks win while Main Street loses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); EVICTION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1363 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Cruze Slips In Survey, But Not In Sales

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
The Consumer Reports Annual Auto Reliability Survey, released on Tuesday afternoon, is intended to provide shoppers with a sense of the projected reliability of new models. But as the sales of some new cars indicate, a poor showing in the study does not translate to poor performance in the marketplace. 
The Chevrolet Cruze, equipped with either the 1.4-liter or 1.8-liter engine, received the worst rating of any small car in the survey. Through September, however, Chevy had delivered 187,524 Cruzes in the United States, making it the highest-selling car in its segment, according to data provided by J.D. Power & Associates.
In contrast, Scion, the highest-rated brand over all in the survey, had sold 7,292 examples of its xD, the Toyota subsidiary's highest-rated model, through September.
The car with the best predicted reliability, the Lexus CT 200h, helped Toyota's luxury subsidiary rank second over all.
The survey was a forecast of the predicted reliability of 2012 models, listing vehicles that were newly recommended or no longer recommended because of changes in their reliability.
Jeep advanced seven places in the rankings to No. 13, supplanting Ford as the most reliable domestic brand. Each of the Chrysler division's vehicles for which the editors had data was deemed at least average, which translated into a significant jump over all for the brand.
The two vehicles with the lowest projected reliability came from the same manufacturer: the Jaguar XF and XJ sedans. And while it is not a volume player, Jaguar reported a 15 percent sales increase in September over the same period last year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GO FIGURE: The Chevrolet Cruze scored poorly in the Consumer Reports Annual Reliability Survey, but sales are strong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RANKINGS (73%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1364 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: A New York Village's Debate Over Drilling Turns Personal

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. -- The letter that arrived in Kim Jastremski's mailbox on County Highway 52 suggested that she stop protesting the possibility of natural gas drilling. It seemed more of a threat than a request.
Computer-generated, unsigned and sent to about 10 other opponents of a practice known as fracking, it compared them to Nazis and said they were being watched while picking up their children at school in their minivans.
Jennifer Huntington's abuse is more public, like comments online suggesting that people find out where her dairy sells its milk so that they can stop buying it, or the warning that her farm, which has a lease with a gas company, ''will fall like a house of cards when your water is poisoned.'' She and other drilling proponents have also been called ''sellout landowners that prostitute themselves for money.''
The debate over horizontal hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the injection of huge quantities of chemically treated water underground to free up natural gas, has become increasingly contentious across the Eastern United States, with dozens of communities passing or considering bans. But that ill will often takes its most intimate form in small towns and rural areas like this one, best known as the home of baseball's Hall of Fame, where fracking has emerged as the defining, non-negotiable political issue. 
The dispute has pitted neighbor against neighbor, and has often set people who live in suburbs or villages against the farmers and landowners who live outside them. The discord is compounded by hard times on both sides and by communication online giving everyone instant access to limitless information confirming their point of view.
And if gas companies have the power and money, fracking opponents, who are concerned about ecological threats like the possible contamination of drinking water, often have the numbers and the intensity to dominate local discourse. ''There's no arguing with a person who is opposed to hydrofracking,'' said Bill Michaels, a councilman in the Town of Otsego, which includes parts of Cooperstown. After waiting to take a position, he eventually supported changes to the town's land-use law that would prohibit fracking, but he still faces opposition from a slate of antifracking candidates. ''There is no debate or conversation,'' he added. ''This is so important to so many people it's pretty much hijacked everything else.''
The state plans to hold hearings in November before issuing final regulations on gas drilling, and the first gas wells drilled under the new rules could be possible next year.
As it turns out, despite the furor here, the Marcellus Shale, a vast rock formation under New York, Pennsylvania and other states, is so shallow near Cooperstown it is not clear how much gas would be available and what kind of drilling would take place here. And no one expects that fracking will ever come to Cooperstown itself.
Still, at the top of the Village of Cooperstown's Web site is a statement recommending a statewide ban on gas drilling and fracking. Middlefield, the other town that includes parts of the Village of Cooperstown, was one of the first municipalities to ban gas drilling through changes to its master plan and zoning.
More than 30 antifracking candidates are running for office in Otsego County in November.
The dispute is also running like an electric current through everyday life. Ms. Jastremski, who five years ago moved back to family-owned land when her husband became an English professor at the State University of New York at Oneonta, thought she had found the perfect place to raise her two children, replete with chicken coops, bee hives and a vegetable garden.
But as she became aware of leases that would allow drilling for gas on various properties in the area, she became increasingly wrapped up in fracking politics. Now, she says, she stays up at night crying over what she sees as the possibility of polluted water, an industrialized landscape and having to leave her home as its value plummets. She said she understood the economic pressures facing some farmers, but could not excuse people who want drilling on their land.
''I think even if individuals here are not incredibly greedy, they are being sucked into a corporate greed that's at work in our country,'' she said. ''They're seeing dollar signs everywhere, and they're not seeing the bigger picture that they're harming their neighbors.''
Ms. Jastremski, 43, who has a Ph.D. in Slavic Studies and works as a technical writer, says she is uncomfortable with the discord surrounding the issue, like a clash she had at the gym with another mother who stood to gain from a gas lease, but feels she has no choice but to be vocal.
Ms. Huntington, 49, became a lightning rod when her Cooperstown Holstein Corporation, which includes a 379-acre farm with 500 head of dairy cattle, sued the Town of Middlefield seeking to overturn its drilling ban. The suit, filed in September, argues that only the state can ban fracking.
Before that, she decided her daughter should no longer attend the same middle school Ms. Huntington had attended as a girl. She said she acted partly because of antifracking activism in the schools, including a movement to ban fracking on school grounds, and the demographic changes that she said made a dairy farmer's daughter feel out of place. ''I knew as time went by it wasn't going to be a comfortable place for her,'' she said.
Like many farmers, she sees the drilling opponents as largely comfortable urbanites in an area increasingly home to retirees and second-home owners who know nothing about the economics of farming and little about the safety of drilling.
She cites the methane digester her family introduced in 1984, which used manure to produce natural gas that was used in part to heat the county nursing home, or the co-generation unit added to it seven years later that produced electricity for the farm.
''This land and my family are my life,'' Ms. Huntington said. ''We probably use three to four million gallons of water to feed my cows. I'm not going to spoil something I need to make my living and for future generations to come.''
Proponents of fracking say that many farmers are on the verge of losing their property.
''The term we use is pastoral poverty,'' she said. ''You have farmers trying to hold on to land that's been in their family for 100 to 200 years. People like the landscape, but it's people living in poverty who are maintaining what they like to look at.''
But many businesses fear an industrialized landscape that would be antithetical to the tourism Cooperstown depends on.
Opponents have suggested a boycott of businesses that do not oppose fracking, and have circulated reports via e-mail identifying cars or trucks possibly involved in gas leasing that have been seen at their neighbors' residences. And some farmers say fracking could ruin them. Siobhan Griffin, an organic dairy farmer, cited a letter from the Park Slope Food Co-op in New York City saying its members would not shop from any area that allows fracking.
Many drilling proponents, meanwhile, say the professionals and retirees drawn to the area have become antigrowth fanatics, opposing a once-a-year music festival proposed in nearby Springfield, wind turbines proposed for Cherry Valley, even additional Little League fields.
Indeed, people on both sides say the ill will probably goes beyond fracking.
''At one time, people in Cooperstown could disagree, but it was never personal,'' said Catherine Ellsworth, who writes a column in a local weekly newspaper and supports drilling. ''Now it's more like they want what they want, and that's it. There's no sense we're in this together. But I guess that's not just here. Society has changed, and Cooperstown has changed along with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kim Jastremski, who lives near Cooperstown, N.Y. (A1)
 Jennifer Huntington, left, a dairy farmer, has sued Middlefield, N.Y., over a fracking ban. Kim Jastremski is concerned about the threat of ecological damage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FORSTER ROTHBART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) MAPS (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); POISONINGS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BASEBALL (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); PROPERTY LAW (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); WATER POLLUTION (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1365 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: New Dreams for Field

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
DYERSVILLE, Iowa -- Mike Dollar had a faraway look as he watched his wife, Laura, hit baseballs to their son, Jesse, who fielded them at shortstop in an Atlanta Braves T-shirt. Abby, their daughter, played catcher. The sun was bright, the sky was clear and the cornstalks were waving in the breeze.
''They really captured the purity of it,'' said Dollar, who had driven 900 miles from their home in Georgia so they could frolic here. ''This field, we'd hate to see it change.''
Change, it turns out, comes creepingly at the Field of Dreams Movie Site. In the film ''Field of Dreams,'' a farmer hears a voice telling him to build a baseball diamond in his cornfield so the ghosts of the disgraced 1919 Chicago White Sox can return to play. 
The movie so touched a chord that since its 1989 release, hundreds of thousands of fans have come to this corner of Iowa to run the bases, walk in the cornfields and soak up the feel of the place, which looks much as it did in the film. Retired major leaguers like George Brett, Lou Brock, Catfish Hunter and Kirby Puckett have been here. Politicians on the campaign trail have stopped by. Kevin Costner, a star of the film, returned with his band in 2006.
In essence, Universal Studios built it and they came.
But on Sunday, Don and Becky Lansing, the owners of the 193-acre farm that includes the field, are to announce that they are selling their property to an investment group led by a couple from the Chicago area. The group plans to keep the field as it is but also to build a dozen other fields and an indoor center for youth baseball and softball tournaments.
For the Lansings, who have no children, it is a bittersweet transaction. The property has been in the family for more than a century, and Don grew up in the two-bedroom house featured in the movie. The couple tended the grounds, gave tours and sold souvenirs. They spurned offers to commercialize the site and tried to maintain their privacy even as each year 65,000 visitors from around the world pulled into their driveway.
But Don, 68, who retired from his job at John Deere, and Becky, 58, decided that they had done as much as they could. They listed the property in May 2010 for $5.4 million. Some local residents said they were asking too much, given the value of farmland and the weak economy. The Lansings wanted to sell only to someone who would preserve the authenticity of the field, which has been free to visitors.
''We really have been aware all these years that the field has to grow in some capacity,'' Becky said. ''We have done what we needed to do with the field. We nurtured and protected it and allowed the field to become all it is meant to be.''
After considering many offers and even inviting Costner to bid on the property, the Lansings settled on Mike and Denise Stillman, who assembled a group called Go the Distance Baseball L.L.C., borrowing a line from the movie. The parties did not disclose the sale price.
The Stillmans plan to leave the field much as it was when Ray Liotta portrayed Shoeless Joe Jackson there. The bleachers erected by Ray Kinsella, Costner's character, will continue to stand near first base. The white house with the wraparound porch and the white picket fence will still overlook the field.
But on the property away from the movie site, the Stillmans plan to build a complex called All-Star Ballpark Heaven. Having watched their son and daughter play baseball and softball, they believe demand is strong for sports centers like those run by Cal Ripken Jr.
Specific plans are still being completed, but Denise Stillman said Roger Bossard, the head groundskeeper for the White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field, who is also known as the Sod Father, would help design the fields, including several, they hope, that replicate major league ballparks. She expects the complex to open in 2014 but said it was too early to say how much the project would cost or how many people would be employed there. Those who work at the movie site will keep their jobs.
The Stillmans, who will not live on the property, have been talking to the Lansings since July 2010. Mike, who grew up on Chicago's South Side, is a lawyer and a White Sox season-ticket holder. Denise is a business consultant who specializes in marketing. They met while attending Bradley University in Peoria, Ill., and one of the first movies they saw together was ''Field of Dreams.''
''It has this sort of bucolic, magical sense to it,'' Denise said of the film, which was nominated for the Academy Award for best picture. ''It seems to transport you. It has a certain sensibility about it that we'd like to raise more.''
The field, which is about three miles outside this town of 4,000, is also a bundle of contradictions. It is as real as any diamond in the world, except for the cornstalks that double as an outfield fence. But it was built by a movie studio in a few days for a film based on a fictional story about players from 70 years earlier.
The Field of Dreams has become a tourist attraction in the most unassuming way. Other than its Web site and a few brochures, it is barely promoted. No billboards alert drivers to turn off the highway; only a few signs point the way to the farm. The Lansings placed a donation box near the guest book at the backstop. Shirts and other souvenirs are for sale, but there are no neon signs or corporate come-ons. The site is closed in the evenings and in the winter.
''We're a sleepy little farm town without it,'' said Mike English, a councilman and pub owner. ''It was a big surprise to everyone that people started showing up. But I don't see it waning. As long as people watch baseball, they will come.''
After the movie, which was filmed in the summer of 1988, few local residents had any idea what was to come. The overhead power line running from third base to right field and beyond, which had been rerouted during filming, was put back. Al and Rita Ameskamp, who owned the land in left and center field, replanted corn there. Don Lansing left his portion of the diamond intact so friends and family could use it for a few years.
Within weeks of the movie's release the next spring, people started arriving. One stranger traveling cross-country gave Don Lansing an old New York Giants cap, which he has kept. When he left for work in the morning, he would leave some buttons that the filmmakers had made for the extras, and they were gone when he returned. He offered T-shirts, with a coffee can and a sign asking for $5. The shirts sold out.
He moved a trailer near the house and converted it into a shop. His sister, Betty, started designing T-shirts. Don learned how to maintain the field.
''Before the movie, the only people who used to come out here were insurance or feed salesmen,'' he said with a chuckle.
About 7,000 people showed up the first year, so Al Ameskamp restored his section of the outfield. The next year, twice as many people came to take in the site. Some brought their fathers' old gloves and left them in the cornfield. Others exchanged wedding vows or scattered ashes of deceased relatives.
A few neighbors, some of whom were semipro ballplayers and had been extras in the movie, pitched to the visitors. For kicks one weekend, Keith Rahe and his friends wore replica jerseys like the ones in the film. When they emerged from the cornfield the way the players in the movie did, a girl supposedly yelled, ''Mommy, it's the ghost players.''
The story was reported in the local paper, and hundreds of visitors appeared the next weekend and for weekends after. So Rahe formed the Ghost Players, who developed a comedy routine like that of the Harlem Globetrotters. In time, the troupe performed at charity events, held youth clinics and even traveled overseas to military bases.
''I told my brother at the time that the Lord had opened up the skies and given us a gift and told us to do with it what we can,'' Rahe said.
The players became so popular that Joe Scherrman, a local filmmaker, made a documentary about them.
''We call it the longest pickup game in history,'' he said of the Ghost Players. ''It's so great for the community.''
Rahe called his group Left and Center Field of Dreams, because that is where it performed on summer Sundays beginning in the mid-1990s. Although the Ameskamps did not seem to mind the crowds on their property -- a concert by Costner's band drew thousands -- the Lansings wanted the field left alone.
''My husband's sense was to keep it small, simple and serene,'' Becky Lansing said. ''We have worked harder than anyone will ever know to keep it that way.''
Al Ameskamp died, and in 2007, the Lansings bought his 100 acres, consolidating the field and a farm that was originally owned by Don's grandfather.
Based on the starry-eyed reactions of visitors, the Field of Dreams continues to cast a spell on baseball fans and movie buffs. More than two decades later, the film's catchphrases have a place in American popular culture. One recent visitor wore a shirt depicting a beer keg with the words, ''If you tap it, they will come.''
It was the Stillmans' wholesome plan for the property, though, that attracted the Lansings, particularly Don, who was born there. He feels pride that his little slice of Iowa was chosen as a movie set, and he wants that to endure.
''I never really dreamt people would come, just like they say in the movie,'' he said. ''I have a lot of affection for the place. I'm not in it for the money. I'm in it for the fun. My fun is over, and I'm ready to move on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ghost Players, a troupe formed by neighbors of the ''Field of Dreams'' site, re-enact the role of the 1919 Chicago White Sox in the 1989 movie with Ray Liotta, below left, and Kevin Costner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE SCHERRMAN/DREAMCATCHER PRODUCTIONS LLC
UNIVERSAL PICTURES, VIA EVERETT COLLECTION)
Don and Becky Lansing, owners of a 193-acre farm in Iowa that includes the field, are selling their property to an investment group led by a couple from the Chicago area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HIRSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP1)
A tourist at the Field of Dreams Movie Site last year near Dyersville, Iowa, above. The actor Kevin Costner with the singer Lisa Loeb before a 2006 concert featuring Costner at the field. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STAN GROSSFELD/THE BOSTON GLOBE
 ERIC ROWLEY/GETTY IMAGES) (SP3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SOFTBALL (78%); CHILDREN (76%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); YOUTH SPORTS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) IOWA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1366 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Ugandans May Get a Game Yet

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
When the team from Kampala, Uganda, was denied visas and was unable to play in the Little League World Series last July, the filmmaker Jay Shapiro found himself adding a heart-rending chapter to the documentary he was filming about the team, and doing so in a sea of sympathy. All kinds of people, from children offering to donate their baseball mitts to major league players, contacted him to ask the same thing: what can I do?
Shapiro did not have an answer until he got an e-mail from Ruth Hoffman of Vancouver, British Columbia. She wrote to Shapiro proposing a game between the Rev. John Foundation team from Kampala and a team from Langley, British Columbia, which was to be the Ugandan team's first opponent at the Little League World Series. They began to hatch a plan. 
If the fund-raising goal of $155,000 can be reached, the Langley team will travel to Uganda in January for a series of games and a good-will baseball mission that is being called the Pearl of Africa Series. Shapiro and Hoffman have teamed with the organization Right to Play to create the trip and a way to help improve the Ugandan program and facilities.
''At first, we thought, wouldn't it be great if those kids could finally get their trip?'' Shapiro said. ''But we talked to the coach and started to believe these games had to be played in Uganda. It is going to have a much bigger impact.''
The Ugandan team was the first African team to qualify for the Little League World Series, but diplomatic red tape undid the team's dream to travel to the tournament. Discrepancies with the players' documentation, particularly the legitimacy of the birth certificates, which are hard to come by in Uganda, led the United States State Department to deny the visas.
None of that mitigated the sympathy many people felt for the players. Hoffman had no connection to the Langley team, or to Little League baseball, although her children played for a team that qualified for the World Series in 2006 when her family was living in Belgium. But she loves baseball, and the team's story hit home. She remembered how excited her children were for their trip of a lifetime to South Williamsport, Pa.
So she was moved to employ her considerable organizational skills to help the Ugandan team. She is involved in microfinance organizations that do work in Africa, and a few of her African contacts had relationships with the Ugandan baseball program.
''All of those stars lined up for me,'' Hoffman said. ''There were so many personal connections to this story that I had to try to do something. I thought, 'If I don't do this, who will?' ''
She said she read an article about the team in The New York Times and saw the short film Shapiro produced for ESPN on the team's plight. She soon contacted Shapiro. He had spent more than two years on his documentary, ''Opposite Field,'' which told the story of baseball's unusual foothold in Uganda, and he loved the idea of writing a happy final chapter.
''There's a pretty epic story to be told about baseball in Uganda, and I couldn't have scripted a better ending,'' he said. ''It's really exciting. It's a shame the kids had to go through the heartbreak of not making it to the World Series, but now their story can be so much bigger.''
Hoffman brought the idea to Right to Play, an organization championed by the Norwegian speedskating star Johann Olav Koss that supports sports programs in underdeveloped countries.
Right to Play had already conducted some of its programs -- intended to teach life skills and social development and improve the quality of basic education -- in Uganda. Robert Witchell, the national director of Right to Play Canada, said Hoffman's idea appealed to the organization because it would go beyond just playing a series of games.
''What Ruth wants to do is not just play this one game, but to leave a legacy behind in Uganda as well,'' Witchell said. ''We want to improve their educational opportunities, create a safe play space for them, create a fund for them to play in future international tournaments.''
Right to Play is hosting a Web site soliciting donations. Of the $155,000 it hopes to raise, about $50,000 will go toward paying for the Langley team's trip; $26,400 is earmarked to pay two years of school fees for 22 players; $35,000 will build a practice field closer to where the players live; and $35,000 will finance future international trips.
Until now, much of the costs to support Ugandan baseball have been borne by one man, Richard Stanley of Staten Island, a part-owner of the Yankees' Class AA affiliate, the Trenton Thunder.
He founded the youth baseball league in Kampala in 2005 after visiting as part of a United Nations economic development program. He said he had spent more than $1.5 million of his money to build facilities and support the program.
''I think this is a good plan,'' Stanley, 68, said. ''It's always a bit difficult in Uganda to make sure the money goes where it is supposed to go, and that's my only concern. But as far as the Canada team going, I think it's great.''
Hoffman said $75,000 had to be raised by the end of the year for the trip to be possible. The effort received a boost when one of Right to Play's athlete ambassadors, the former Toronto Blue Jays player and current Rogers SportsNet analyst Gregg Zaun, mentioned the game during a World Series broadcast on Sunday. By Thursday, more than $17,000 had been pledged. Witchell said the president of Rogers SportsNet also promised to donate $10,000 and to send a crew to televise the games in Uganda.
''I'm sure this is going to happen,'' Hoffman said. ''These kids deserve this to happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The team from Kampala, Uganda, had to settle for watching the Little League World Series on television after its visas were denied. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TADEJ ZNIDARCIC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); MICROFINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (93%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%) UGANDA (97%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (72%); BELGIUM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1367 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: The Fine Print

 BODY:
Part of a conversation between a high-matching pair (L.S.M. = 77 percent). They wanted to see each other afterward.
WOMAN: Let's get the basicsover with. What are you studying? 
MAN: Uh, I'm studying econ and poli-sci. How about you?
WOMAN: I'm journalism and English literature.
MAN: O.K., cool.
WOMAN: Yeah.
MAN: All right, um, where are you from?
WOMAN: I'm from Iowa, a town of 700.
MAN: I'm from New Jersey. Uh --
WOMAN: Probably not 700.
MAN: All right, well, I mean, actually, believe it or not, where I'm from in New Jersey has a lot in common with, like, Iowa and stuff.
Half of low-L.S.M. couples broke up within three months.
Neither of these students was interested in seeing the other again. (They scored 54 percent.)
WOMAN: Where are you from?
MAN: Connecticut. . . . How about you?
WOMAN: Um, I'm from Austin, Tex.
MAN: Texas? Nice, O.K.
WOMAN: When you say football, I understand football.
MAN: Oh, O.K.
WOMAN: That's kind of like one of those things.
MAN: That's -- you a U.T. fan or a --
WOMAN: Um, ''fan'' would be the wrong word.
MAN: An understatement? Or an o --
WOMAN: No, the wrong word.
MAN: Ah, O.K.
O'Donnell vs. Hasselbeck
Hasselbeck: I asked you a question
O'Donnell: And you wouldn't even answer it.
Hasselbeck: You wouldn't even answer your own question.
O'Donnell: Oh, Elisabeth. I don't want. . . . You know what? You really don't understand what I'm saying?
Hasselbeck: I understand what you're saying.
Try it yourself
secretlifeofpronouns.com/exercise/synch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LITERATURE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%) NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); TEXAS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1368 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Urban Undead

BYLINE: By GLEN DUNCAN. 
Glen Duncan is the author of eight novels, most recently ''The Last Werewolf.'' Its sequel, ''Talulla Rising,'' will be published next summer.

 BODY:
ZONE ONE
By Colson Whitehead
259 pp. Doubleday. $25.95.
A literary novelist writing a genre novel is like an intellectual dating a porn star. It invites forgivable prurience: What is that relationship like? Granted the intellectual's hit hanky-panky pay dirt, but what's in it for the porn star? Conversation? Ideas? Deconstruction?
With the human odd couples, the answer stays behind closed doors (until divorce yields the tremulous interview or hemorrhaging memoir), but with their novelistic analogues, it's all ours for less than $30. 
Colson Whitehead is a literary novelist, but his latest book, ''Zone One,'' features zombies, which means horror fans and gore gourmands will soon have him on their radar. He has my sympathy. I can see the disgruntled reviews on Amazon already: ''I don't get it. This book's supposed to be about zombies, but the author spends pages and pages talking about all this other stuff I'm not interested in.'' Broad-spectrum marketing will attract readers for whom having to look up ''cathected'' or ''brisant'' isn't just an irritant but a moral affront. These readers will huff and writhe and swear their way through (if they make it through) and feel betrayed and outraged and migrained. But unless they're entirely beyond the beguilements of art they will also feel fruitfully disturbed, because ''Zone One'' will have forced them, whether they signed up for it or not, to see the strangeness of the familiar and the familiarity of the strange.
The novel is set chiefly in Manhattan, some time after a plague has turned a majority of the world's population into zombies (or, as Whitehead calls them, ''skels,'' short for ''skeletons''). Skels are of two kinds. They're either dozily rabid predators reduced to a monolithic imperative -- eat living flesh -- or they're ''stragglers,'' harmless catatonics piteously stuck at their former posts. Geographically, ''Zone One'' is everything south of Canal Street, a barriered region largely cleared of the undead by the military. Local authority is the brass at ''Fort Wonton'' in Chinatown, while national administrative power lies with the new provisional government in Buffalo. Civilization is attempting a comeback. According to propaganda, the ''American Phoenix'' is rising, thanks to frail corporate sponsorship and therapy for those suffering from P.A.S.D. (post-apocalyptic stress disorder). There's an Orwellian slogan, ''We Make Tomorrow!'' (which I heartily wish didn't remind me of ''Yes We Can'') and a new morale-boosting anthem: ''Stop! Can You Hear the Eagle Roar? (Theme From 'Reconstruction').'' There are also ''sweepers,'' teams of quasi-military volunteers who go in after the Marines to pick off any stragglers the primary purge might have missed.
A plot summary is impossible: there isn't a plot. To make matters worse, the protagonist is a laconic introvert of self-avowed mediocrity. The only ostensibly interesting things about him are his nickname, Mark Spitz (the explanation for which is withheld so long that the payoff stakes rise perilously high), his tendency to hallucinate falling ash and his ominous flirtation with the mysterious ''forbidden thought.'' Spitz is a sweeper and, for the novel's three-day, flashback-filled present, our guide to the new (and hence the old) reality.
Let's deal with the porn star half of the liaison first: ''Zone One'' as zombie novel. Notwithstanding the absent plot, Whitehead ticks a lot of boxes. There's an alternative world with its own idiom and logic. There are moments of Boschean mayhem. Heads are shot and lopped off. There's at least one (Freudianly amped-up) evisceration. The sweepers trade mordant one-liners, and the skels shuffle and suppurate and tear the living to pieces whenever they can get their teeth into them. People are bitten, infected, transformed. On the face of it, there are genre thrills aplenty.
The problem, or virtue, depending on your attention span, is that the intellectual half of the couple -- ''Zone One'' as literary novel -- is always there too: you never get the porn star alone.
''Whatever is happening,'' Susan Sontag pointed out, ''something else is always going on,'' and it's this ''something else'' that Whitehead is really interested in. Of course it is: he's a literary writer, hard-wired or self-schooled to avoid the cliched, the formulaic, the rote. He knows reality -- even the reality of a world overrun by gaga revenants -- is always going to have more to it than the dictates of genre allow. So in the action sequences we get essayistic asides and languid distentions, stray insights, surprising correspondences, ambivalence, paradox. We get, in short, an attempt to take the psychology of the premise seriously, to see if it makes a relevant shape.
The shape it makes is a love story. More specifically, a story of lost love, at first glance contemporary America's for its own cultural protocols -- from sidewalk etiquette to sitcom vectors -- but beyond that, humanity's love for ritual, its dependence on ways of imposing meaning on the void; for religious trinkets or scientific models or personal superstitions or long-term financial plans; for every gimmick, brand preference, boxed set or mumbled prayer that helps us deny the absurdity of our predicament and the certainty of death. Some ''Zone One'' humans are still at it, post-Apocalypse, framing the plague as God's righteous reboot or the planet's eco backlash, but for the antiheroic Mark Spitz the framing days are over. What happens happens, and there's nothing behind it but a random biological swipe. Philosophically, the novel's as existentially hard-line as they come.
Spitz's characterization -- oblique, muted, hazy at the edges -- which at first seems an imaginative underachievement, turns out to be apposite: his averageness makes him the perfect Everyman Survivor, sufficiently attached to the lost mores to lament them but dull enough to bear their loss:
''Beauty could not thrive, and the awful was too commonplace to be of consequence. Only in the middle was there safety. . . . He had led a mediocre life exceptional only in the magnitude of its unexceptionality.''
Stylistically the novel takes a while to settle. Shoot-from-the-hip phrases like ''a weather-beaten broad who dispensed smiles beneath a slumping orange beehive'' sit uneasily alongside sub-Victorian constructions like ''He was bereft of attractive propositions, constitutionally unaccustomed to enthusiasm and generally malleable when it came to his parents' wishes.'' But once he finds his register, Whitehead writes with economy, texture and punch. He has a talent for sardonic aphorism -- ''Hope is a gateway drug, don't do it'' -- and an ear for phonetic intrigue: ''Snipers trained their scopes, muzzles crackling next to the squatting cornice gargoyles and the shells hopping on the rooftop tar.'' (Read that aloud and see.)
There will be grumbling from self-/appointed aficionados of the undead (Sir, I think the author will find that zombies actually . . .) and we'll have to listen for another season or two to critics batting around the notion that genre-slumming is a recent trend, but none of that will hurt ''Zone One,'' which is a cool, thoughtful and, for all its ludic violence, strangely tender novel, a celebration of modernity and a pre-emptive wake for its demise. If this is the intellectual and the porn star, they look pretty good together. For my money, they have a long and happy life ahead of them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNAH K. LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Zone One (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1369 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: The Times Gives Them Space, but Who Pays Them?

BYLINE: By ARTHUR S. BRISBANE

 BODY:
PEOPLE don't just argue about what is written on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. They argue about who is doing the writing and why.
In a skeptical age, readers and organized groups frequently question perceived hidden interests and agendas of Op-Ed contributors who, unlike the paper's own opinion columnists, are outsiders.
This month, a government and industry watchdog group called the Checks and Balances Project submitted a petition -- signed by more than 50 journalists and educators -- calling on The Times to ''set the nation's standard by disclosing financial conflicts of interest that their op-ed contributors may have at the time their piece is published.''
The group pointed at Robert Bryce, author of a June 8 Op-Ed article headlined ''The Gas Is Greener,'' which identified hidden costs of wind and solar power. The Times's italicized author line accompanying the article said, ''Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the author, most recently, of 'Power Hungry: The Myths of ''Green'' Energy and the Real Fuels of the Future.' '' 
This wasn't enough for Checks and Balances, which said readers wouldn't know that the Manhattan Institute got financial support from the fossil fuel industry and that Mr. Bryce was ''masquerading as an unbiased expert.''
I don't think Mr. Bryce is masquerading as anything: experts generally have a point of view. And the Manhattan Institute's dependence on this category of funding is slight -- about 2.5 percent of its budget over the past 10 years. But the issue of authorial transparency is an important one, albeit one that isn't always simple.
As my mail from readers suggests, concerns about disclosure are sometimes straightforward. An Op-Ed article by Avi Jorisch (''To Punish Iran, Seize Its Embassy,'' Aug. 2) brought complaints that the author line, which identified Mr. Jorisch as a former Treasury Department official and the author of a book on money laundering and terrorism finance, should have noted that he was the founder of the Red Cell Intelligence Group, a consulting firm that specializes in counterterrorism.
Jack Corbett, of Portland, Ore., argued that the affiliation should have been mentioned because, among other reasons, the author line should speak to the writer's current activity, not something from the past. ''It is hard to see this as anything but an attempt to conceal from the average reader that an author brings a potentially significant bias to the content,'' he wrote.
A complaint about another Op-Ed piece (''How to Weaken the Power of Foreign Oil,'' Sept. 21), by Robert C. McFarlane, a national security adviser under Ronald Reagan, and R. James Woolsey, a former Central Intelligence Agency director, presented a bit more complexity.
Mark Kinnucan, a reader from Huntington, N.Y., thought that because the article advocated alternatives to gasoline, The Times should have disclosed that both writers were on the advisory board of the Myriant Corporation. Mr. Kinnucan noted that on the company's Web site, Mr. McFarlane is quoted as saying that Myriant's technology will ''enable us to replace oil as a feedstock for everything from the fuel which drives our transport system to the clothes on our backs.''
But when The Times questioned the authors about this after publication, they and Myriant's chief executive issued a statement saying the company ''has never been engaged in the biofuels industry.'' Rather, the firm uses biotechnology to produce industrial chemicals, plastics, food additives and other nonfuel products.
So there does not appear to be a direct link between the topic of the article and the authors' involvement with Myriant. But there was plenty of room for confusion. (Mr. McFarlane told me that a predecessor of the company had demonstrated technology for biofuels but that Myriant subsequently decided not to get into that business.)
It is important to pause and note that The Times takes steps to ward off financial conflicts of interest. All Op-Ed contributors are required to sign an agreement that states, ''You agree to disclose to The Times any financial interest you may have in the subject matter of the article,'' Andrew Rosenthal, the editorial page editor, told me.
''Story editors ask each writer if there is any real or perceived material or financial interest we should know about,'' he added in an e-mail explaining the Op-Ed disclosure policy.
Finally, another category of reader complaints concerns Op-Ed pieces by writers like Martin S. Feldstein, prominent figures whose long resumes cut across the public and private sectors. Some readers want to see a more exhaustive bio, not merely what's in the author line -- in the case of Mr. Feldstein, for example, that he is a Harvard economics professor who was a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Reagan.
Mr. Rosenthal told me the author lines are crafted for ''clarity, transparency and brevity.'' It's not practical to list every affiliation of an author like Mr. Feldstein, he said, and he questioned whether changing Mr. Jorisch's author line would have improved it.
As for Mr. Bryce, Mr. Rosenthal said the Op-Ed article itself made very clear that he was a proponent of traditional energy sources. The Manhattan Institute is ''well known for its pro-market stances, including its skepticism of subsidies for alternative energy,'' he said.
Certainly, the Manhattan Institute is well-known to some, including organized groups like the Checks and Balances Project, whose Web site's promotion of green energy makes clear that it is on the opposite side of the energy debate (something its petition doesn't mention).
But I don't think every reader knows what the Manhattan Institute is. So, while I recognize that The Times has limited space in print to provide more disclosure, I believe it should do more to help readers learn about outside Op-Ed contributors.
In print, besides noting prominent past achievements, author lines should include the writer's current paid role, as it did for Mr. Bryce but often doesn't do. The Times should avoid simply noting that the writer is a ''consultant,'' as it sometimes does, and provide the consulting firm's name.
On NYTimes.com, The Times should include links for these organizational ties so readers can investigate, if they wish. Finally, it would be useful if The Times required contributors to provide a document listing all current paid positions, and publish a link to the document. (I should note that The Times has begun to include online links for contributors who have their own Web site, or online biography.)
These steps aren't as simple as perhaps they sound, and, even if done well, some readers will ask for more. That said, such changes would shed light where it's needed, in a skeptical age.
The public editor serves as the readers' representative. His conclusions are his own. E-mail: public@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (76%); WIND ENERGY (73%); PETITIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1370 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Around the Globe, Economic Lessons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Four Nations, Four Lessons'' (Economic View, Oct. 23), in which N. Gregory Mankiw uses the examples of France, Greece, Japan and Zimbabwe to describe policies the United States should avoid: 
In the column, he says that if taxes here approach those of Europe, ''we can then see whether the next generation of Americans spends less time at work earning a living and more time sipping espresso in outdoor cafes.''
My several months spent living with a family in the French Alps three years ago exposed me to a more normal French experience -- of working hard just to pay the bills. Higher taxes ensure public health, a safe retirement, cleaner streets and good schools. Gee, maybe you get what you pay for. France has a fairly thriving democracy without all the rancor we are suffering.
The French are no strangers to issues of immigration, racial tensions and health. Still, to suggest that they escape the ''nose-to-the-grindstone American culture'' assumes that a scraped nose is a good thing and that a balanced life is laziness. Neither is true, there or here. Rather than criticize progressive societies we should consider learning from them.
Edward McFadd
Encinitas, Calif., Oct. 23
To the Editor:
N. Gregory Mankiw concludes that ''if American policy makers don't rein in entitlement spending over the next several decades, they will have little choice but to raise taxes close to European levels.''
But he leaves a huge part of the federal budget out of his analysis: the hundreds of billions spent on the military.
Our deficit has been largely fueled by fighting two wars of choice while, at the same time, cutting taxes. A discussion of alternatives must consider substantial cuts to the military budget, not just to social programs.
Ben A. Solnit
Morris, Conn., Oct. 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); IMMIGRATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1371 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CULTURED TRAVELER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2035 words

HEADLINE: On Frank Lloyd Wright's Trail in Wisconsin

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
WHEN I told my friends that I was planning a family vacation in Wisconsin, I received either blank stares or teasing comments about the admittedly unsexy specialties for which the state is known. There was mention of cows and cornfields and cheese curds. Yet Wisconsin is also Frank Lloyd Wright country, the place where he was born and reared and to which he kept returning. To travel there is to marvel at the contrast between the calm landscape and the delirious inventiveness of his work.
Unlike books or paintings, the objects created by an architect are not always easily encountered. Most of Wright's 400-plus buildings are private homes scattered around the country and closed to the public. But Wisconsin has at least three Wright sites that are welcoming: Taliesin, his former home and studio in rural Spring Green; Monona Terrace, a convention center in bustling Madison; and the Johnson Wax building in industrial Racine. As my family and I set out to visit them, we realized we had previously been inside only one Wright building, the Guggenheim Museum in New York, a dreamy if arrogant masterpiece whose curving white walls seem designed to outshine the paintings. 
Wright, who died in 1959 at age 91, just six months before the Guggenheim opened, was an elegant and imperious figure. He wore a black cape and could seem indifferent when clients complained about the water dripping onto their heads from roofs he had designed.
His own origins were modest. Descended from Welsh immigrants, he was born in Richland Center, a farm town. After dropping out of college, he moved to Chicago and eventually settled in suburban Oak Park, Ill., where he presided over a family of six children and was courted by affluent neighbors who longed to live in one of his fashionably low-slung Prairie houses.
Everything changed in 1911, after he fell in love with a married neighbor, Martha Borthwick Cheney, or Mamah. They left Chicago and moved to a hideout he built for them in the remote hills of his Wisconsin childhood. This is the house known as Taliesin, in Spring Green, about 40 miles west of Madison.
Getting there is a bit of a trek, especially if you start in New York and stop along the way to see a Cubs game at Wrigley Field, as my husband and I and two college-age sons did last summer. We flew to Chicago, took an excellent tour of Oak Park's Wright houses and then drove off for a week in Wisconsin.
Avant-garde art movements generally take root in major cities. It helps to have a dense population of young artists competing for greatness. Perhaps that's why it feels so surprising to stumble on Wright's jolting modernism in the quiet countryside. Here, amid the emerald green fields, is Cubism (evoked in the jutting planes of his houses). Here is Surrealism (note his habit of turning a homely edge into a thing of curve and whimsy). Here are buildings whose forms must have once seemed as alien in this terrain as flying saucers.
Taliesin began life as a wood-and-stone bungalow tucked into a grassy slope. Over the years, it grew into a rambling compound that is often compared to an Italian hill town. It is, all at once, a house, a laboratory and a manifesto of Prairie-style architecture. The key idea is horizontality. At a time when Americans were enthralled by ever taller skyscrapers whose silhouettes pulled away from the ground as if to escape coarseness itself, Wright wanted his buildings to look as if they had grown out of the earth.
Taliesin is also a haunted house whose history is inseparable from tragedy. Wright's affair with Mamah Cheney escalated from a local scandal into a national one, inciting a barrage of moral condemnation from gossipy store clerks in Spring Green as well as from headline writers at major newspapers. One August day in 1914, when Wright was away, Mamah and her two children were murdered by a household worker who came after them with an ax.
The incident, in which four men helping out at the house were also murdered, recently resurfaced with aching clarity in two novels. Nancy Horan's ''Loving Frank'' (2008) offers a memorable portrait of Mamah, a serious-minded woman who translated feminist tracts from Swedish into English. T. C. Boyle's eloquent ''The Women'' (2009) follows Wright through three complicated marriages and makes Wisconsin feel akin to the storm-lashed moors of Wuthering Heights.
Which is not to suggest that impulse and instinct reign at Taliesin today. The place imposes nearly militaristic demands on visitors. Granted, I did not mind donning plastic shoe covers to shuffle through the living room or surrendering my purse to minimize the possibility of grazing a wall. Such are the imperatives of vulnerable houses and historic preservation.
The only way to see the house is by guided tour. The Taliesin tours, besides being costly (two-hour house tours are $47), require constant group adherence, beginning at an off-site visitors' center, where you board a bus. It all began to seem a bit mirthless when, after leaving Wright's monkish bedroom, we were herded back onto the bus, unable to linger on the green hillside that stretched out in every direction. The brisk pace is antithetical to Wright's wise dictum: ''Study nature, love nature, stay close to nature. It will never fail you.''
A few days later, I was savoring the warmth of the sun outside a convention center in Madison. Wright attended high school and college there and eventually designed a masterpiece for the city. The Monona Terrace Community and Convention Center, despite its clunky name, is an unutterably lovely building, an all-white semicircle perched on the edge of Lake Monona. The rooftop terrace juts over the water and functions as a gargantuan public plaza, complete with a cafe. Suspended between views of the Wisconsin State Capitol and the level blue stretch of the lake, the building offers a stark choice between the power of the state and the escapism of nature.
As I took in the terrace's perimeter walls, which swoop through space as if in a practice run for the dazzling curvilinearity of the Guggenheim Museum, I found myself thinking about Wright's suspected learning disabilities. According to Ada Louise Huxtable and his other biographers, he was a poor to middling student who probably never graduated from high school. He wangled his way into the University of Wisconsin, where he lasted for fewer than three semesters.
Perhaps the insistent horizontality of Wright's work was rooted in a desire to overcome the indignity of his early academic struggles -- one ''reads'' his buildings from left to right, as opposed to up and down. If his school assignments saddled him with persistent frustration, he turned his limitations into a strength of his art, imprinting the American landscape with bravura forms that at times seem to echo the flow of sentences across paper.
A tour of Monona Terrace costs only $3 and is offered daily at 1 p.m. The history of the building is a fascinating narrative of on-again-off-again city planning. Wright initially proposed his design in 1938. But the denizens of Madison were bitterly divided over whether to lavish taxpayer money on the work of an adulterer and a scoundrel, and the building was not completed until 1997. For this reason, some scholars characterize it as ''Wright-inspired'' rather than 100 percent undiluted Frank.
The last stop on our Wright tour was Racine, a factory town that has seen better times. Guidebooks tend to talk you out of visiting, perhaps because the city suffers from high unemployment; empty storefronts abound. Yet there remains one incredible draw. The Johnson Wax Administration Building went up in 1939 and continues to serve as the headquarters for the company that started out making parquet flooring in the 19th century. Free tours are offered on Fridays, and nothing about the red-brick building can prepare you for the breathtaking eccentricity of the space known as the ''great workroom,'' a half-acre windowless, high-ceilinged space furnished with dozens of Art Deco desks. Wright designed furniture, too, and the desks are nifty affairs with wooden tops and curvy metal frames painted Cherokee red.
The grounds include a research library that is open to the public, a handsome room where biographies of Wright, scholarly tomes and historical black-and-white photographs share shelf space with displays of home-cleaning products, including antique cans of J-wax, Beautiflor (''cleans as it waxes'') and Glade air freshener.
Perhaps cleaning products, as much as Wright's radical architecture, are part of the story of Utopian longing in America. The desire to live in a serene space, to make the floorboards glow and purge one's world of darkness: who wouldn't want that?
When you leave the Johnson Wax building, you exit through an indoor parking lot that amounts to an adventure of its own. The white-painted ceiling and red floor continue the color scheme of the building's interior. Blue reflecting pools amplify the sense of light. Stunning white columns flare at the top into inverted ziggurats, each a mini-Guggenheim Museum.
I paused to take photographs and e-mailed them to friends back home, thinking they would be amused to see the ethereal forms of the Guggenheim echoed in a humble garage in Racine. It was then that I realized what the famous ramps of the museum most resemble. The Guggenheim is oddly similar to a multistory parking garage.
IF YOU GO
For most of our trip, we stayed in Lake Geneva, a picturesque resort town in southern Wisconsin whose lakefront estates surface in the novels of F. Scott Fitzgerald. It was not until we arrived at our hotel, the Grand Geneva Resort and Spa (7036 Grand Geneva Way; 800-558-3417; grandgeneva.com), that we realized it was slightly east of town. And not on the famous lake!
But there were compensations. The Grand Geneva, as it turns out, was built in 1968 as a Playboy resort. Our two hotel rooms (doubles start at $159) had terraces overlooking a body of water in the shape of bunny ears. The athletic facilities are first-rate; the building housing the Well Spa also features indoor tennis courts and a regulation-sized basketball court, where my sons spent many contented hours.
The Johnson Wax Building, about an hour away in Racine, is in a working-class residential neighborhood that is short on restaurants. But West Racine is an eminently historic and walkable neighborhood with century-old buildings and a population descended from Danish immigrants.
Larsen's Bakery (3311 Washington Avenue; 262-633-4298; larsenskringle.com) is a celebrated shop whose shelves are laden with local specialties like raspberry-filled kringles and poppy-seed crescents. A chocolate log beautifully decorated to resemble tree bark caught my eye. It was $2, an end-of-the-day markdown, I was told. As I paid for it, I thought it was the deal of the century, until I learned it had been only $4 in the morning.
Spring Green, the site of Taliesin, has few restaurants but there are wonderful one-of-a-kind motels. We stayed at the Spring Valley Inn (6279 County Highway C; 608)-588-7828; springvalleyinn.com), whose Wright-style exterior and furnishings were designed by architects at Taliesin. Breakfast, included in the room rate (starting at $90), is served in a glass octagonal room that overlooks a garden where hummingbirds and finches convene at bird feeders.
The guests were abuzz with Wright anecdotes, exchanging stories and chuckling over his behavior as if he were some impossible genius with whom they were personally acquainted. I certainly knew to whom one man was referring when I overheard him say: ''One of his nicknames was Slow Pay Frank. You could never get a nickel out of him.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Oct. 30 with an article about Frank Lloyd Wright-designed buildings in Racine, Wis., misidentified the multistory building shown beside a sculpture. It is the S. C. Johnson Research Tower, which was designed in 1944 and opened in 1950. It is not the S. C. Johnson Administration Building, which was completed earlier. (The tower adjoins the administration building.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frank Lloyd Wright's influence is seen everywhere in his native Wisconsin. TOP from left: Taliesin, his home tucked into a hillside in rural Spring Green
the rooftop terrace of the Monona Terrace Community and Convention Center in Madison
the Johnson Wax Administration Building, built in 1939 in Racine. ABOVE: The Monona Center, which was not finished until 1997.
TOP: The half-acre workroom at the Johnson Wax building, with its Art Deco furniture and high ceilings. ABOVE: The building's indoor parking lot.
 Wright built Taliesin horizontally, to fit into the landscape. It was both a home and a laboratory for the Prairie style. FROM LEFT: A stone terrace, the drafting rooms and office, and the living room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (88%); MAMMALS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%)

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON & SON INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2842 SPECIALTY CLEANING, POLISHING, & SANITATION PREPARATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011



1372 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Protests in Oakland Test Mayor and Her Activist Background

BYLINE: By SHOSHANA WALTER. 
swalter@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
When Jean Quan was an undergraduate, she once sat for 10 hours inside Sproul Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, demanding better treatment for minority students. As a community activist, she helped unionize hospital workers and organized parents in a poor neighborhood of West Oakland.
At another time, Ms. Quan, the mayor of Oakland, might have joined the hundreds of protesters who have camped out near City Hall as part of Occupy Oakland. Instead, she is now a focus of their wrath. Late Thursday night, protesters chased her from a rally, shouting ''Go home,'' and refusing to let her speak. The protesters were reacting to her decision to shut down the encampment, which led to a night of street violence on Tuesday, with police unleashing tear gas on the demonstrators. Ms. Quan said the area had become unsanitary and unsafe.
''She raided us. People are hurt for no reason,'' said Adam Jordan, an Occupy Oakland organizer, alluding to several people who were injured, including an Iraq war veteran who sustained a severe head wound. ''She's the establishment.'' 
Ms. Quan's transformation from one of the more progressive mayors in the country into an object of Occupy Oakland's scorn has left her isolated and weakened politically. Even her closest friends and supporters questioned her judgment. Dan Siegel, Ms. Quan's legal adviser who has known her since her days at Berkeley, said he briefly considered resigning over the raid.
But instead of giving in, Ms. Quan is trying to win back the support of the protest community she once called her own.
On Friday, hours after she fled the rally, Ms. Quan said she would not resign. She apologized for a second time and sought to align herself with the Occupy movement, which claims to represent the 99 percent who they say are shut out of a political process that caters to corporations.
''Oakland is definitely part of this 99 percent,'' Ms. Quan said.
On Thursday, Ms. Quan had reversed herself and allowed the protesters to resettle in Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, despite the fact that Oakland, facing a $76 million budget deficit, spent an estimated $1 million on cleanup costs and police overtime during the Occupy protest, according to finance officials.
Three-dozen tents were spread across the plaza on Friday morning; there were 150 before Tuesday's raid. Phil Horne, a San Francisco attorney, was handing out yellow leaflets asking people to sign a petition to recall Ms. Quan as mayor. Her actions last week erased her accomplishments as an activist, he said.
Edwin, a 23-year-old office assistant from San Mateo who declined to give his last name out of concern he would lose his job, said he regretted that Ms. Quan had not been allowed to speak to the protesters. But he said he was not sure whether to forgive her.
''I'm willing to give her a second chance because of her history,'' he said. ''But if she continues to do what she's been doing the last two days, I think she needs to go.''
Ms. Quan, who got her start in activism as an undergraduate at Berkeley, clearly has a lot of work to do in order to regain her anti-establishment credibility.
At Berkeley, she gained experience working with the Third World Liberation Front, whose efforts on behalf of minority students led to the establishment of the university's ethnic studies program.
After Berkeley, Ms. Quan moved to Hong Kong, New York and Los Angeles, working in the labor movement. In 1980, she returned to the Bay Area and led a campaign against the Ku Klux Klan after five anti-Klan protesters were killed in Greensboro, N.C.
In the mid-1980s, Ms. Quan, who by then had two children with her husband, Floyd Huen, helped elect several progressive candidates to the Oakland school board. She then ran herself, and later became school board president before being elected to the City Council.
Mr. Siegel, her legal adviser, said part of her strength as an activist and politician is her tireless approach.
''When Jean runs for office and knocks on doors, the joke that people make is that they'll vote for her because she won't leave,'' he said. ''She's not afraid when it gets dark, she's not afraid when there's an angry dog or if she's in a sketchy neighborhood. She's not afraid of a couple of angry people in the plaza.''
Ms. Quan often speaks in short forceful spurts. Since her upset victory last November, which made her the city's first Asian-American mayor, she has sought to impose a progressive agenda on Oakland, but she has been stymied by polarizing politics, a struggling economy and her city's 16 percent unemployment rate.
She often clashed with the police, recommending community organizing to offset a police force decimated by budget cuts. On Oct. 11, Chief Anthony Batts abruptly resigned. While he did not blame Ms. Quan directly, he said bureaucracy and micromanaging by city officials had made it impossible for him to do his job.
Long-time allies have encouraged Ms. Quan to embrace Occupy Oakland. Josie Camacho, executive director of the Alameda Labor Council, said she told Ms. Quan: ''If we let this movement continue, we will have a lot of pride for stepping out there. And we will have your back. You have to look at things differently.''
Ms. Camacho said it was important to help build the movement, and allow people to stay where they want to stay. ''When do you see homeless and students and families come together in a shared space?'' she said. ''At some point you have to take a risk and at some point you have to take a stand.''
On Thursday, Ms. Quan released a video in which she addressed the protesters directly and emphasized her background as an activist.
''We are a nation in crisis,'' she said. ''Oakland more than most cities faces budget cuts, unemployment and foreclosures. We are also a Progressive city. And as a long-time civil rights activist and union organizer I want my City to support the movement.''
On Friday, after fleeing from the rally, Ms. Quan decided she would not let up. She continued to court the protesters.
''This is a tough job,'' she said. ''I wanted to talk to them. I still want to talk to them and we stand ready to talk to them any time.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about Mayor Jean Quan of Oakland and her struggle to lead her city during the Occupy Oakland movement, referred incorrectly to Ms. Quan's status at the University of California, Berkeley. While she did attend Berkeley, she did not graduate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: San Francisco resident Phil Horne outside city hall in Oakland on Thursday. Above left, Scott Olsen was injured in Tuesday night's violence at Occupy Oakland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER/ASSOCIATED
PRESS KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS
 JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PETITIONS (76%); RIOTS (74%); IRAQ WAR (67%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011



1373 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KINNAIRD, DENNIS E.

 BODY:
KINNAIRD--Dennis E.,one of California's leading trial lawyers, died at home in Los Angeles on Monday from complications of esophageal cancer. He was 75. He grew up in San Diego. 
After serving in the Army he graduated from San Diego State University in 1961, and received a J.D. from University of California, Boalt Hall, Order of the Coif in 1964. After a brief time at Keating & Sterling he joined the U.S. Attorneys' Office and became Head of Special Prosecutions where he was regarded as an honest and effective federal prosecutor, one of the first to prosecute economic crimes in Los Angeles. Dennis then distinguished himself at Munger, Tolles & Olson, as a partner who litigated high profile complex cases. He was a Fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers. He retired in 2001. His colleagues and friends described him as fiercely loyal, wise, a gentleman, a true friend, and above all valued his quick wit that would fill your heart with laughter. More than his legal acknowledgments Dennis valued the love of his life, Connie McCreight. He is also survived by his sister Susan Gribble, brother Donald Kinnaird, nieces Stephanie Levy, Shelby Scott and Keli Emery; and nephew Tod Emery. Contributions in his honor can be made to the Samuel Oschin Comprehensive Cancer Institute at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 8700 Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90048 or please visit: www.discoveringforlife.org/ Kinnaird

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); CANCER (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%)

COMPANY: MUNGER TOLLES & OLSON LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); ORDER OF THE COIF (57%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF TRIAL LAWYERS (56%); CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1374 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: State Finds a Way to Make Weatherization Work

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
For conservative opponents of the federal stimulus package, the beleaguered Weatherization Assistance Program has been an easy target. Texas' component of the Obama administration's ''green jobs'' initiative has also been plagued by well-documented problems and criticisms, and the disdain of Texas' Republican leadership, including Gov. Rick Perry.
But despite the Texas program's rocky start, state officials say it has actually been quite successful -- surpassing its goal of weatherizing more than 38,000 homes and creating more than 1,000 jobs across the state.
The federal weatherization program, created to help low-income families make energy-efficient upgrades to their homes, has been around since the oil crisis of the 1970s sent electricity prices soaring. But its relatively small annual budget did not generate much attention until the Obama administration infused the program with $5 billion as part of the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. As a result, Texas' $13 million annual weatherization budget got topped off with $327 million in stimulus money. 
''When the federal government comes at you unannounced and throws $327 million at you and says, 'Go create something and here's a bunch of rules,' it's a real challenge,'' said Tim Irvine, executive director of the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, which administers the program.
The program came with a set of rigorous federal regulations. Contractors had to perform specific diagnostic tests to determine the most cost-effective way to weatherize a home. And as with all stimulus programs, employers had to abide by the Davis-Bacon Act, which requires them to pay fair and competitive wages determined by the United States Department of Labor.
The program got off to a slow start nationally, and Texas was no exception. Nearly a year after the passage of the stimulus legislation, Texas' program had created only 118 jobs and failed to weatherize a single home.
In a letter to the Department of Energy in March 2010, Michael Gerber, then the executive director of the housing and community affairs department, blamed the federal government for the delay. He wrote that it had taken the Department of Labor nearly a year to determine appropriate wage rates and that Texas did not receive the information until December 2009. Most states, including Texas, chose to wait on weatherizing homes rather than risk overpayment or underpayment.
The governor's office places the blame even higher -- with the Obama administration. ''This is yet another example of a stimulus program that was poorly designed and has come under national scrutiny for wasting taxpayer funds,'' Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for the governor, wrote in an e-mail.
But Kevin Jewell, an economic analyst for Texas Low Income Housing Information Service who has chronicled the progress of the state program on that nonprofit's blog, said state officials used the lack of Davis-Bacon wage information as an excuse, and the delay occurred because the housing department had to build the program from scratch.
''They were ramping the program up from a small annual program to a very large, short-term, one-time project,'' he said. ''Although they had that seed from the original program, that in my mind is the real reason things had a slow start.''
Many of the small nonprofits in Texas' existing network of weatherization providers struggled with the increased financing and new federal regulations. Fourteen of the original providers gave back a combined $29 million in weatherization money because they were not prepared to administer the program; several providers forfeited their stimulus contracts altogether, and at least two of those nonprofits were involved in investigations for fraud.
The providers who stayed in the program often had contractors who were good at the technical aspects of their jobs but were not at record keeping, Mr. Irvine said -- a major problem given federal audit procedures and other requirements.
A Texas Tribune review of more than 130 housing and community affairs department monitoring reports found weatherization providers consistently had problems accurately documenting expenses and conducting energy audits, which in some cases led to thousands of dollars in unexplained costs and improper installations of materials. More than half of the 3,500 weatherized homes inspected by the department had workmanship deficiencies that contractors were ordered to return to fix.
The monitoring reports also reveal more severe transgressions.
The executive director of the West Texas nonprofit Community Council of Reeves County was accused in June of using weatherization money to buy groceries and toys, and of authorizing three months of pay for an employee she knew was on unpaid leave. Following a state investigation, the council voluntarily returned more than $1.6 million in government financing to the housing and community affairs department, including $800,000 for the weatherization stimulus program. The council is no longer in business, and its former executive director could not be reached for comment.
In Laredo, the Webb County Community Action Agency also relinquished its financing after an investigation earlier this year determined that on at least 43 occasions workers hired by the organization had invoiced the program for materials that had not been installed. The activity was caught before the organization asked the housing department for reimbursement. Officials from the housing department said they could not comment on pending, or possible, criminal investigations. Mr. Irvine said the monitoring reports had helped the department identify ''a few instances of improper activity,'' but he said the real takeaway was that most providers learned from their mistakes.
Texas' problems were not unique. Recent audits of other states' programs by the Department of Energy's inspector general found that many have been technical and bureaucratic nightmares.
With five months remaining and $65 million left in the bank, Texas' program looks successful by comparison. It has surpassed the weatherization goal set by the Department of Energy by 7,000 homes. The program has created more than 1,000 jobs in the state. Meanwhile, the housing and community affairs department has trained more than 3,000 contractors, electricians and other technicians through the stimulus-financed Weatherization Training Academy.
Not everyone is impressed. Ms. Nashed, the governor's spokeswoman, said recovery.gov, which tracks Recovery Act spending, inflated the number of jobs created by the stimulus program, ''making it impossible to know the actual impact of these massive stimulus programs on employment across the nation.''
Mr. Jewell, a supporter of the program, said the weatherization providers had hired the right number of workers to get the job done. His concern is that Texas providers' spending per household was lower than projected. ''It may indicate the homes that needed the most work haven't been prioritized,'' he said. Providers spent only $5,500 per household on average, while the spending limit set by the government is $6,500.
But at the ground level, the recipients of the home improvements and the Texas contractors who have been hired say it has been a giant benefit.
Josie Valdez, whose company, Valdez Remodeling and Weatherization Inc., contracted by Austin Energy to provide weatherization services in Central Texas, was able to hire five full-time employees with money from the stimulus program. ''My business is doing great because of this,'' she said.
Sebero Palacio, who works at an Austin grocery store, had the house he shares with six family members upgraded with a new energy-efficient air-conditioner after receiving a flyer about the stimulus program in the mail. He is looking forward to the cost saving.
''We don't have money to pay the bills,'' Mr. Palacio said. ''Sometimes when it's real hot, we have to use the A-C all the time, day and night.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker installs energy-saving home improvements for a low-income family in Austin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WISEMAN/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); UTILITY RATES (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1375 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Why Our Candidates Disappoint Us

BYLINE: By DREW WESTEN. 
A professor of psychology and psychiatry at Emory University and the author of ''The Political Brain: The Role of Emotion in Deciding the Fate of the Nation.''

 BODY:
Atlanta
AS a psychotherapist for more than 25 years, I've never been fond of boilerplate formulations. But if there's one aphorism I've repeated to patients many times, it's one that applies as much in politics as it does in daily life: Our strengths and our weaknesses tend to flow from the same wells.
Understanding that about ourselves can help make life easier. And understanding that about our politicians can help explain why, after more than 30 million people have tuned in to the Republican debates, the most popular political figure or institution in the country remains ''none of the above.''
In everyday life, the ability to deal comfortably with authority or accept ''how things have always been done'' can produce a good teammate or employee. But it can also lead someone to nod his head approvingly as a leader is about to make a catastrophic decision. Similarly, a tendency to value reason and intellect in decision-making is invaluable, but its flip side can be a discomfort with emotion that can interfere not only with intimacy in close relationships but, paradoxically, with good decision-making. 
Making good decisions requires an ability to anticipate the emotional consequences of one course of action or another, often by listening to ''gut-level'' rumblings that provide an early warning signal that something is amiss.
And so it is in politics, as the wellsprings of hope are so often laced with the contaminants of despair.
Perhaps it couldn't be otherwise. All of us have the misfortune of having grown up in imperfect families, born with a set of designer genes that even millions of years of evolution couldn't tailor to perfection. And from that pool of imperfect people we draw our leaders, many of whom are attracted to politics as much by their weaknesses as by their strengths.
Those weaknesses seem to be on display today, as voters face the possibility that their choice next November may be between the quintessential ''corporation man'' in Mitt Romney, a character straight off the set of ''Mad Men'' but seemingly without the character development, and the intellectualized undecider in Barack Obama, who couldn't seem to feel, until recently, the ''fierce urgency of now'' for people desperate for a job or crushed by a mortgage.
In fact, attitudes toward authority and intellect are essential differences between political parties of the right and left and they help explain why most Americans believe the Republicans and Democrats could both use some time on the couch.
Conservatism is by its nature concerned with preserving tradition, and with tradition comes a greater emphasis on obedience and hierarchy. ''Spare the rod and spoil the child'' rolls off the lips of many of my fellow Georgians, but it's not among the top proverbs in Manhattan. Because of their attitude toward authority and hierarchy, Republicans in Congress are more likely to follow their leaders (although the tea in the Tea Party has added some libertarian spices for which some Republican leaders are still trying to develop a taste). This aptitude for synchronized swimming can lead to Olympic victories, but also to Pyrrhic ones.
Democrats on the other hand react so strongly against taking ''marching orders'' that they can scarcely stay on message even if their political lives depend on it (which they often do). Whether because he wasn't sure exactly what he wanted to do or because he took the laissez-faire attitude toward leadership that bedevils the Democratic Party, President Obama let a Democratic Congress craft his signature legislation on health care. The result was a patchwork quilt that took 15 months to sew, and was stitched so sloppily that it left the average American cold.
Just as the two parties differ in their attitudes toward authority, they diverge in the value they place on intellect. In both cases, the two parties might have something to learn from each other.
Whereas Democrats have carried forward the belief in the role of science and knowledge in improving our lives, Republicans have moved in increasingly anti-intellectual directions. Three of the Republican presidential hopefuls report entering the race at the urging of God, a claim that would have distressed the founders, who rejected claims to leadership by divine right.
It is deeply ironic that the Republican Party, long the party of privilege, has become the party that champions the view that anyone -- from an exterminator (Tom DeLay, former House majority leader) to the owner of a pizza joint (Bobby Schilling, freshman congressman from Illinois) -- has what it takes to run a country.
Yet if the Republican presidential debates have demonstrated anything, it is that intellect is not just a liability for a Republican primary contender, but a disqualifier. It is no accident that Mitt Romney has had to renounce the best thing he ever did for the people of Massachusetts as governor -- passing health care legislation that actually allows the people of the state to go to the doctor when they're sick.
Democrats, in contrast, are too likely to view intellect as both necessary (which it is) and sufficient (which it is not) for high office. They have repeatedly presented the American people with candidates -- Hubert H. Humphrey, Walter F. Mondale, Michael S. Dukakis, Al Gore, John Kerry -- with more than enough gray matter to be the world's chief executive but not enough of the other skills that matter to the American people. Those qualities, which many Democrats perceive as ''irrational,'' are quintessentially rational if the goal is to lead, to implement policies effectively, and to keep voters engaged between elections so they can weigh in to coerce their elected representatives to represent them when members of Congress are disinclined to do so (usually, today, because of the competing demands of their campaign contributors).
THE ability to ''read'' the emotions of the electorate and to speak to those emotions in a compelling way do more for both electoral success and legislative success than I.Q. Similarly important is the ability to articulate a vision and a set of values, which is a far better predictor of voting behavior than positions on ''the issues.''
This is something Republicans understand far better than Democrats, and something Ronald Reagan mastered. George W. Bush's success in moving both his domestic and foreign policy agendas reflected his ability to spell out his values. Americans prefer candidates who share their values, but they are least inclined to vote for someone who hides them.
Mitt Romney's difficulty in breaking 25 percent in the polls among Republican primary voters, despite his likelihood of being the Republican nominee, reflects more than anything the fact that voters have no idea what he really believes -- a problem that dogged John McCain in 2008.
Republicans are right about another quality that distinguishes effective leaders from ineffective ones: experience. Republicans are fond of pointing out the advantages of having run a business or a state before becoming C.E.O. of the world's largest economy (although, of course, that argument helps candidates friendly to their free-market philosophy). Obama was the first sitting senator to win the presidency since John F. Kennedy, in 1960, and perhaps the least experienced person ever to occupy the Oval Office. (Bill Clinton, by contrast, who was a year younger than Obama at the time he was elected, was the nation's longest-serving governor.)
Perhaps the American people are on to something.
Cognitive scientists have long distinguished between ''generic knowledge'' -- knowing something, like the ingredients in a chocolate cake or the number of Democratic senators -- and ''procedural knowledge'' -- knowing how to do something, like how to beat an egg so the cake comes out right, or how to browbeat a senator or two so a piece of legislation comes out right. From a neurological perspective, these are very distinct forms of knowledge. As knowledge shifts from generic to procedural, from effortful, conscious thought to effortless, unconscious procedures, our brains process it differently and more efficiently.
If the American people aren't drinking the Kool-Aid from either side of the aisle, it's probably because they don't trust the water from either well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Listeners at a Mitt Romney campaign stop in Sioux City, Iowa, this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE WEAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FAMILY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (89%) GEORGIA, USA (89%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1376 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Easy to Use, or Steal, But Inching Out of Reach

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE. 
E-mail: giniab@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Among his various legacies, Steve Jobs, whose memorial continues with the arrival of the iPhone 4S, left us with a tangible and resonant symbol of our economic frictions: an easily brandished, easily taken device that in its sleek design and intuitive simplicity flaunts the relative effortlessness of affluent, knowledge-class living. The have-nots, particularly teenagers, covet and seek what, by now, the haves assume as birthright and dependency.
For the past few years, The Brooklyn Paper, a free weekly, has meticulously chronicled iPhone thefts in the 35 neighborhoods it covers. Each week the paper's police blotter is filled with descriptions of thieves running off with iPhones grabbed from complacent citizens who are often in the midst of using them. This happens at all hours -- as people emerge from subways, or walk their dogs, or stand on street corners. A database of criminal activity on the paper's Web site lists ''iPhone'' as its own category, between ''Drunk driving'' and ''Menacing.'' 
The New York Police Department does not keep citywide, item-specific data on the robberies and larcenies it records, but the department's Transit Bureau has attributed the recent rise in subway crime -- up 17 percent compared with the same time last year -- to the theft of electronic gadgetry. Over 1,000 subway riders have been the victims of larceny this year, though it is unclear how many of them were the targets of iPhone thieves. The phone's popularity is indisputable: During a single month last spring, five of the seven mobile phones stolen from subway riders in Manhattan's First Precinct were Apple-made. Beyond trains and platforms, about half of the robberies recorded in late summer in Brooklyn's 88th Precinct (which encompasses Fort Greene) involved iPhones, the police said.
Stolen phones are typically deactivated by their owners right away, but the fact that phones require new operating systems to be useful hasn't proved a deterrent. Now, though, a thief faces the prospect that the victim might have a tracking system or application in place.
Brian Chattoo, 23, was charged this month in connection with the theft of an iPhone from the coat pocket of a woman on Liberty Avenue in Queens. She had installed the IGotYa application, which photographs anyone who enters the wrong pass code when trying to use an iPhone with a front-facing camera. It then sends the photo, along with a map of the phone's location, to an e-mail address. Within 25 minutes of the theft of her phone, the victim, Erum Malik, received a photo that the police say showed Mr. Chattoo, along with his location, 113th Street in Queens.
The circumstances surrounding recent iPhone thefts had felt relatively tame until Friday morning, when a 17-year-old high school student was fatally stabbed in Jamaica, Queens. The boy, Patrick Dixon, was attacked by a group of teenagers who demanded his phone, just as he'd stepped off a bus. By the time he got to the hospital, he was dead.
The iPhone, though, is the latest in a succession of status objects that have fostered urban crime. In the 1980s, the craze for Cazal eyeglass frames, West German artifacts with gold insets, which sold for $85 to $200 in stores and commanded $35 to $50 on the street, resulted in the fatal stabbing of a 17-year-old Bronx boy at Broadway and 204th Street one winter afternoon, when five teenagers accosted him and grabbed the pair he was wearing.
In the late '80s and early '90s, cities across the country were forced to deal with the fact that young people were killing one another for Air Jordans. During the same era, the fad for leather bomber jackets became so intense that the Newark Police Department formed a special task force to deal with the shootings and muggings related to it.
As it happens, communications technology was fueling felonious activity in the city as far back as 85 years ago. In 1926, a man named Paul Hilton roamed Queens, breaking into homes to steal radios. Having shot and killed a patrolman while fleeing a robbery, he was captured at a baseball game and executed at Sing Sing in 1927. By the spring of that year, Hilton had inspired a copycat burglar who stole a $165 radio from a home in Jamaica, Queens, prompting the neighborhood's police precinct to declare that officers would shoot to kill in similar crimes.
The poignancy surrounding the current spate of iPhone thefts is that Apple products have always read as cooler than their rivals' because their design suggests a gleaming world of innovation and opportunity, of capitalism behaving well -- a world that seems ever diminishing, ever less accessible to the struggling and young.
Unlike the sneakers and glasses that caused such a fury in the '80s and '90s, iPhones didn't originate in the celebrity system. They come with a democratic ethos (if not the analogous price tag); BlackBerrys are for suits, but even a child can work an iPhone. Wasn't everyone supposed to have a shot?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THIEF BAIT: The theft of electronic devices like iPhones has fueled a rise in subway crime this year, the police say. In the past, New Yorkers were mugged, sometimes killed, for bomber jackets, Cazal glasses and Air Jordans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); DOGS (70%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (63%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1377 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: As Kyrgyzstan Votes, Some Consider a Turn to Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan -- When Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, unveiled a plan this month to form a new alliance of former Soviet countries called the Eurasian Union, some of them cringed at the specter of some kind of U.S.S.R. version 2.0.
But not Kyrgyzstan. 
On Sunday, a year and a half after the bloody overthrow of an authoritarian president and an explosion of ethnic violence that left hundreds dead, Kyrgyzstan will hold a presidential election, and many people here, worn down by instability, are looking to link up with their country's former comrades, first among them Russia.
''Even those of us most concerned about the danger to sovereignty and national independence, we see that we need to integrate,'' said Edil Baisalov, a prominent democracy activist and a former aide to the current president. ''We had better chain our car to the train of Russia and Kazakhstan.''
Small and landlocked, Kyrgyzstan has long parlayed its strategic Central Asian location into an outsize role in geopolitics, hosting both American and Russia military bases and engaging both powers in a lucrative bidding war for its loyalty. Both Russia and the United States supported the interim government that took power last year.
But if the experts are right, Kyrgyzstan's proximity and historical ties to Russia may prevail over what many here see as America's temporary strategic interest.
Several prominent candidates in the election have endorsed Russia's proposed Eurasian Union. The presumed front-runner, Almazbek Atambayev, met with Mr. Putin in Moscow this month, and has expressed support for Kyrgyzstan's membership in a Russia-led customs union that already includes Belarus and Kazakhstan.
Mr. Atambayev, who was prime minister until stepping down in September to concentrate on his campaign, even sponsored a bill this year naming a mountain in Kyrgyzstan after Mr. Putin.
Much of the Kyrgyz elite, even those seen as strongly pro-Western, seems to believe that the country has little choice but to cast its lot with Russia. Many are suspicious of growing Chinese influence in the region. But perhaps more important, they fear abandonment by the United States.
The American military base at Manas airport, near Bishkek, is crucial to supplying NATO forces in Afghanistan and is a big source of revenue for the Kyrgyz government. The lease on the base ends in 2014, the same year President Obama has vowed to withdraw troops from Afghanistan, a prospect viewed with foreboding by some here.
''We will without a doubt move in the direction of the customs union and probably also the Eurasian Union,'' said Roza Otunbayeva, who will step down as caretaker president at the end of the year. ''The exit of NATO forces in 2014 leaves us no other choice if we want to preserve our security.''
Though some have warned that joining the customs union could harm Kyrgyzstan's trade relations with China and complicate its standing in the World Trade Organization, which it joined in 1998, Ms. Otunbayeva said a decisive shift toward Russia made sense economically.
''Everything that we manufacture here goes to markets in Kazakhstan or Russia,'' she said. ''We can't compete with China and we can't compete with Europe. We are living in this space for now and see that for at least the next 10 years we will be stuck here.''
Such a position coincides with a recent shift in Russia's regional policy. Early efforts by Mr. Putin to reassert authority in former Soviet countries were often ham-fisted. Attempts to influence the internal politics in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan backfired, when pro-Russian leaders were deposed with the help of Western governments in a series of so-called color revolutions.
Russia's methods have evolved. A soft-power campaign that included documentary films on Russian television and denunciations by Russian officials of human rights violations preceded the uprising in April 2010 that overthrew Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, a corrupt autocrat who had sometimes thwarted Russian interests, particularly regarding the American base, which the Russians wanted shut down.
Russia has expanded commercial relations here in recent years, including investment in Kyrgyzstan's energy infrastructure. In September, the Russian energy giant Gazprom announced that it would open an office in Kyrgyzstan. Russia already supplies most of the country's energy resources.
This month Mr. Putin vowed aid to help Kyrgyzstan's economy. Russia has also supported the creation of several Russian cultural centers this year in Bishkek, the capital, aimed in part at promoting the Russian language, which many here have begun to forget.
''We've begun to learn from our mistakes,'' said Aleksei V. Vlasov, a Central Asian expert from Moscow who has been working to forge ties between Russian and Kyrgyz universities. ''We are now working with several internal players at once, diversifying our risks. And we are working not only with the elite, but with Kyrgyz society.''
Though Russia's aid contributions to Kyrgyzstan pale in comparison with aid from Western countries, Russia's strategy has earned dividends. A recent poll conducted by the International Republican Institute, a Washington-based group that promotes democracy, found that 96 percent of Kyrgyzstan's population thought relations with Russia were ''good,'' compared with 45 percent who thought the same about the United States.
China, the region's dominant economic power, has faced criticism for using Chinese labor instead of local residents for its infrastructure projects. Many here earn their living off the resale of imported Chinese goods to Kazakhstan, Russia and elsewhere in Central Asia, but sales have dropped since the creation of the customs union, merchants said.
Gulnara Kurumbayeva, the director of the history department at Kyrgyz State University, which hosts a Moscow-backed Russian cultural center, said interest among students in Russia, after falling off almost completely a few years ago, had begun to grow. In the last two years, the number of students in the department choosing to study in Russian exclusively has grown from close to zero to about 800 this year as many have sought to improve their chances of finding higher-paid work in Russia.
''Common sense and the desire to be competitive in the work force,'' Ms. Kurumbayeva said, ''is driving young people, for mercantile reasons, to study Russian.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, left, with his Kyrgyz counterpart, Almazbek Atambayev, a presidential candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA LAPIKOVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); ROZA OTUNBAYEVA (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KYRGYZSTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); BELARUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1378 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (13, 49) AMERICA IN PRIMETIME Television as a lens on American society is the focus of this new four-part series, which looks at some character archetypes -- the man of the house, the misfit and the crusader -- that have remained a staple of shows for generations, and in the process have both mirrored and helped to shape the national character. First up: ''Independent Women,'' which reflects on the transformation of women from model housewives to complex and even proudly controversial characters. Among the actors and writers interviewed are Mary Tyler Moore and James L. Brooks (''The Mary Tyler Moore Show''); Candice Bergen (''Murphy Brown''); Liz Brixius and Linda Wallem (''Nurse Jackie''); Eva Longoria, above left (''Desperate Housewives''); Robert and Michelle King (''The Good Wife''); Shonda Rhimes, above center, and Sandra Oh (''Grey's Anatomy''); and Diablo Cody, above right (''United States of Tara.''). 
9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH CANDY CROWLEY David Axelrod, an Obama campaign adviser, discusses the strategy to get the president re-elected. Also, Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, talks about his presidential aspirations and his Republican rivals. On ''Fareed Zakaria GPS,'' at 10, the French philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy, who pushed President Nicolas Sarkozy of France to urge NATO intervention in Libya, discusses that country's revolution and whether the death of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was justified.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour talks with Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota about her efforts to return to the top of the pack of Republican presidential contenders, including her 11-point ''American Jobs, Right Now'' plan. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder and chairman, discusses taxing the rich, improving American education and why wealthy nations need to continue to give aid to the world's poorest countries, even in these times of economic austerity. He also reflects on his competitive 30-year friendship with Steve Jobs.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace speaks with Gov. Rick Perry of Texas about his Republican presidential candidacy.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Bob Schieffer interviews the Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS David Plouffe, a White House senior adviser, talks about President Obama's new campaign theme, ''We can't wait''; proposed measures to help troubled homeowners and students; and the president's case against the Republican Party.
7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES In their first interview about Bernard L. Madoff, who is serving 150 years in prison for running the largest Ponzi scheme in history, Mr. Madoff's wife, Ruth, and his son Andrew speak with Morley Safer about how Mr. Madoff confessed his crimes to them, their reaction and the family strife that has followed in the last three years, including Bernard and Ruth's suicide attempt and the suicide last December of their son Mark. ''I don't know whose idea it was, but we decided to kill ourselves because it was so horrendous, what was happening,'' Ms. Madoff tells Mr. Safer. ''We had terrible phone calls. Hate mail, just beyond anything, and I said, 'I just can't go on anymore.' '' The interviews coincide with the publication on Monday of ''Truth and Consequences: Life Inside the Madoff Family'' by Laurie Sandell.
8 P.M. (Fox) THE SIMPSONS In ''Treehouse of Horror XXII,'' below, Homer gets his arm caught in a boulder after tumbling into an isolated canyon, where a spider bite leaves him paralyzed but able to communicate by way of natural gases. To the rescue: Aron Ralston (voicing himself), the hiker whose real-life amputation of his own arm became the basis for Danny Boyle's film ''127 Hours.'' Meanwhile in this annual Halloween episode, Bart and Milhouse enter deep space, where they're transformed into one-eyed avatars and caught in the middle of planetary warfare after Bart falls in love. And Ned Flanders, a devout preacher by day, turns into a cold-blooded vigilante by night. In ''Allen Gregory,'' a new animated series at 8:30, Jonah Hill lends his voice to Allen Gregory De Longpre, a 7-year-old who, when he looks in the mirror, sees not a child but a young man who has composed operas, written novels and dated Chloe Sevigny. But his biggest challenge yet just may be his first day at a public elementary school. French Stewart is Richard, Allen Gregory's father; Nat Faxon is Jeremy, Richard's life partner; and Joy Osmanski is Julie, their snarky adopted daughter from Cambodia. It's just one big unhappy family in an architecturally stunning loft. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: EVA LONGORIA PARKER (58%); SANDRA OH (58%); RON PAUL (57%); RICK PERRY (54%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); BILL GATES (50%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%); DAVID AXELROD (50%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1379 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Comedian Is Serious, Mostly, As Candidate

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI BEACH -- Wearing a black suit and tie with neon-pink laces on his kicks, the man in the video struggles up Ocean Drive, past the Art Deco hotels and the hangovers they house. He pulls a trolley freighted with two voting machines -- the ones that hung those chads long ago and made election infamy.
''Easy come, easy go, time for me to say hello,'' he sings soulfully into the camera in a parody of Bruno Mars's video ''Grenade.'' ''My name is Steve Berke, and I am running to be mayor, yo. Is he real? Do you know? Is he one big joke? I can promise you it's real.''
Steve Berke is for real. And the 30-year-old comedian's quixotic race for Miami Beach mayor -- with its YouTube parody videos, sultry fashion models, publicity stunts and pro-marijuana platform -- has morphed into a serious bid, with serious money and a serious political consultant. 
Call it a Jon Stewart-generation campaign by a candidate weaned on ''The Daily Show'' and hoping to use raw humor to reach new, disenfranchised voters through social media. On his campaign fliers, Mr. Berke poses with a fluffy housecat borrowed from a friend ''because I don't have a wife and children.'' His campaign's robo-calls use voice impersonators posing as President Obama, Bill Clinton and, ''for the Jewish vote,'' Adam Sandler. He has cameras recording his every step (and misstep) so he can pitch the whole thing as a reality show. He highlights his politically lethal gaffes because another part of his platform is unwavering transparency.
The fact that his chief opponent, Mayor Matti Herrera Bower, is a two-term, 72-year-old Cuban-American who promotes her experience and grandmother credentials makes the generational schism all the more striking.
''This will be my last term,'' Ms. Bower assured voters at a recent neighborhood meeting. ''So I ask to be voted in again.''
On her side sit the powerful police and firefighters' unions and older Hispanic voters who take pride in her double-first: a Democrat, she is the city's first female mayor and first Hispanic mayor.
With the nonpartisan election on Tuesday, the mayor, Mr. Berke and two other candidates are hitting neighborhood meetings, mailing fliers and appealing to the paltry, mostly Hispanic, mostly older 7,000 or so voters who usually turn out for an off-year election. With so few votes at stake in a four-way race, an influx of new voters -- gays, clubgoers, marijuana boosters -- could easily skew the outcome or at least force a runoff.
''I'm the anti-politician,'' said Mr. Berke, a claim made by most politicians but not by many who smoke marijuana, down vodka shots and cavort with models on camera to prove it. ''Maybe I can be the first person ever to use comedy to win an election.''
The scheme would be laughable if Mr. Berke, a libertarian member of his so-called After Party, did not carry an impressive pedigree. He is a Yale graduate who won two national tennis championships. When an injury forced him to retire, he became a contestant on a Fox reality show, ''The Rebel Billionaire,'' which featured Richard Branson, the corporate mogul. Mr. Berke was featured in all but one episode and wound up successfully marketing and selling the product he created on the show, a travel pillow. Looking for his next chapter, he opted for stand-up comedy and parody videos, attracting a significant YouTube following.
The fact that Roger J. Stone Jr., the outre veteran Republican political consultant, volunteered to advise Mr. Berke at no cost also lends heft and credibility to the enterprise. So far, Mr. Berke has spent $60,000 on the campaign, about half from donations, half from his own bank account.
''This is very much a laboratory election,'' said Mr. Stone, a Goldwater Republican, who said the campaign had now entered the deadpan phase, with Mr. Berke attending two debates and speaking seriously to the issues in this city of 87,000 residents. The issues mainly involve ballooning city pensions, economic development and the annual Urban Beach Weekend, which attracts legions of raucous partiers who sometimes face off with the police and residents.
''His being a comedian is an asset,'' Mr. Stone said. ''Politics is entertainment. If your campaign isn't entertaining, you aren't getting any votes.''
This kind of gonzo campaign is also made possible because this is Miami Beach, not Apopka, Fla. The city's beaches and boozy celebrity-spackled night life churn its economy. Gays, Jews, Hispanics, transplanted New Yorkers, rich and poor all jostle for sidewalk space. Mr. Berke grew up mostly on the island, and his father, a doctor, is a third-generation resident.
Mr. Berke ran for mayor on a whim, after his best friend, Andrew Resnick, the son of the late Abe Resnick, a Miami Beach real estate magnate with a street named after him, floated the idea in jest. Kind of. Sort of.
Soon, Mr. Berke, a denizen of the clubs who hates to lose, had opened Phase One of the campaign: Attract as much media attention as possible. In no time, a posse of high-end, bikini-wearing fashion models began to knock on doors and ham it up on videos.
''It's not sexist,'' he said. ''I have male models, too.''
His model friends personally delivered unmarked absentee ballots to people who had requested them on his Web site. And at one fund-raiser, they auctioned themselves off as dates; winning bidders included a few professional football players. The basketball stars LeBron James and Dwyane Wade showed up at a recent fund-raiser. Mr. Berke's Web site features Whack the Mayor (a la Whac-A-Mole).
But his push to decriminalize marijuana -- an effort to fine people caught with small amounts of marijuana rather than arrest them -- has increased his chances the most. He gathered 9,000 signatures to get the issue on the ballot. (So far the city has not agreed to it.)
''Why are we still wasting money on that?'' asked Mr. Berke, who because of two herniated discs has a license from California to smoke medical marijuana, which he does infrequently.
Ms. Bower did not return calls but has said she welcomes the competition. ''It will keep me young to run against a young man with fresh ideas,'' she said in one interview.
As for voters, who knows?
''Years ago this would have fallen down flat,'' said David Walsh, 77, who has lived on Miami Beach for 45 years. ''Now the demographics have changed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Is he one big joke? I can promise you it's real,'' Steve Berke sings in a video for his Miami Beach mayoral campaign, which also features model friends like Taylor Hannum, left, and Robin Linke. Mr. Berke is running as a member of what he calls the After Party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEG ROUSSOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
Steve Berke, running for mayor of Miami Beach, is challenging Matti Herrera Bower, below, who is seeking a third term. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEG ROUSSOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PETER ANDREW BOSCH/MIAMI HERALD) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); CATS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JON STEWART (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ADAM SANDLER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1380 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Planning Buildup in Gulf After Iraq Exit

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Thom Shanker reported from MacDill Air Force Base, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

 BODY:
MacDILL AIR FORCE BASE, Fla. -- The Obama administration plans to bolster the American military presence in the Persian Gulf after it withdraws the remaining troops from Iraq this year, according to officials and diplomats. That repositioning could include new combat forces in Kuwait able to respond to a collapse of security in Iraq or a military confrontation with Iran.
The plans, under discussion for months, gained new urgency after President Obama's announcement this month that the last American soldiers would be brought home from Iraq by the end of December. Ending the eight-year war was a central pledge of his presidential campaign, but American military officers and diplomats, as well as officials of several countries in the region, worry that the withdrawal could leave instability or worse in its wake.
After unsuccessfully pressing both the Obama administration and the Iraqi government to permit as many as 20,000 American troops to remain in Iraq beyond 2011, the Pentagon is now drawing up an alternative. 
In addition to negotiations over maintaining a ground combat presence in Kuwait, the United States is considering sending more naval warships through international waters in the region.
With an eye on the threat of a belligerent Iran, the administration is also seeking to expand military ties with the six nations in the Gulf Cooperation Council -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Oman. While the United States has close bilateral military relationships with each, the administration and the military are trying to foster a new ''security architecture'' for the Persian Gulf that would integrate air and naval patrols and missile defense.
The size of the standby American combat force to be based in Kuwait remains the subject of negotiations, with an answer expected in coming days. Officers at the Central Command headquarters here declined to discuss specifics of the proposals, but it was clear that successful deployment plans from past decades could be incorporated into plans for a post-Iraq footprint in the region.
For example, in the time between the Persian Gulf war in 1991 and the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the United States Army kept at least a combat battalion -- and sometimes a full combat brigade -- in Kuwait year-round, along with an enormous arsenal ready to be unpacked should even more troops have been called to the region.
''Back to the future'' is how Maj. Gen. Karl R. Horst, Central Command's chief of staff, described planning for a new posture in the Gulf. He said the command was focusing on smaller but highly capable deployments and training partnerships with regional militaries. ''We are kind of thinking of going back to the way it was before we had a big 'boots on the ground' presence,'' General Horst said. ''I think it is healthy. I think it is efficient. I think it is practical.''
Mr. Obama and his senior national security advisers have sought to reassure allies and answer critics, including many Republicans, that the United States will not abandon its commitments in the Persian Gulf even as it winds down the war in Iraq and looks ahead to doing the same in Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
''We will have a robust continuing presence throughout the region, which is proof of our ongoing commitment to Iraq and to the future of that region, which holds such promise and should be freed from outside interference to continue on a pathway to democracy,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said in Tajikistan after the president's announcement.
During town-hall-style meetings with military personnel in Asia last week, the secretary of defense, Leon E. Panetta, noted that the United States had 40,000 troops in the region, including 23,000 in Kuwait, though the bulk of those serve as logistical support for the forces in Iraq.
As they undertake this effort, the Pentagon and its Central Command, which oversees operations in the region, have begun a significant rearrangement of American forces, acutely aware of the political and budgetary constraints facing the United States, including at least $450 billion of cuts in military spending over the next decade as part of the agreement to reduce the budget deficit.
Officers at Central Command said that the post-Iraq era required them to seek more efficient ways to deploy forces and maximize cooperation with regional partners. One significant outcome of the coming cuts, officials said, could be a steep decrease in the number of intelligence analysts assigned to the region. At the same time, officers hope to expand security relationships in the region. General Horst said that training exercises were ''a sign of commitment to presence, a sign of commitment of resources, and a sign of commitment in building partner capability and partner capacity.''
Col. John G. Worman, Central Command's chief for exercises, noted a Persian Gulf milestone: For the first time, he said, the military of Iraq had been invited to participate in a regional exercise in Jordan next year, called Eager Lion 12, built around the threat of guerrilla warfare and terrorism.
Another part of the administration's post-Iraq planning involves the Gulf Cooperation Council, dominated by Saudi Arabia. It has increasingly sought to exert its diplomatic and military influence in the region and beyond. Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, for example, sent combat aircraft to the Mediterranean as part of the NATO-led intervention in Libya, while Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates each have forces in Afghanistan.
At the same time, however, the council sent a mostly Saudi ground force into Bahrain to support that government's suppression of demonstrations this year, despite international criticism.
Despite such concerns, the administration has proposed establishing a stronger, multilateral security alliance with the six nations and the United States. Mr. Panetta and Mrs. Clinton outlined the proposal in an unusual joint meeting with the council on the sidelines of the United Nations in New York last month.
The proposal still requires the approval of the council, whose leaders will meet again in December in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, and the kind of multilateral collaboration that the administration envisions must overcome rivalries among the six nations.
''It's not going to be a NATO tomorrow,'' said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic negotiations still under way, ''but the idea is to move to a more integrated effort.''
Iran, as it has been for more than three decades, remains the most worrisome threat to many of those nations, as well as to Iraq itself, where it has re-established political, cultural and economic ties, even as it provided covert support for Shiite insurgents who have battled American forces.
''They're worried that the American withdrawal will leave a vacuum, that their being close by will always make anyone think twice before taking any action,'' Bahrain's foreign minister, Sheik Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, said in an interview, referring to officials in the Persian Gulf region.
Sheik Khalid was in Washington last week for meetings with the administration and Congress. ''There's no doubt it will create a vacuum,'' he said, ''and it may invite regional powers to exert more overt action in Iraq.''
He added that the administration's proposal to expand its security relationship with the Persian Gulf nations would not ''replace what's going on in Iraq'' but was required in the wake of the withdrawal to demonstrate a unified defense in a dangerous region. ''Now the game is different,'' he said. ''We'll have to be partners in operations, in issues and in many ways that we should work together.''
At home, Iraq has long been a matter of intense dispute. Some foreign policy analysts and Democrats -- and a few Republicans -- say the United States has remained in Iraq for too long. Others, including many Republicans and military analysts, have criticized Mr. Obama's announcement of a final withdrawal, expressing fear that Iraq remained too weak and unstable.
''The U.S. will have to come to terms with an Iraq that is unable to defend itself for at least a decade,'' Adam Mausner and Anthony H. Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies wrote after the withdrawal announcement.
Twelve Senators demanded hearings on the administration's ending of negotiations with the Iraqis -- for now at least -- on the continuation of American training and on counterterrorism efforts in Iraq.
''As you know, the complete withdrawal of our forces from Iraq is likely to be viewed as a strategic victory by our enemies in the Middle East, especially the Iranian regime,'' the senators wrote Wednesday in a letter to the chairman of the Senate's Armed Services Committee.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about plans to bolster the American military presence in the Persian Gulf after withdrawal from Iraq described incorrectly the political affiliations of a group of senators requesting hearings on the negotiations that led to the withdrawal. The group is made up of 11 Republicans and one independent (Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut) -- not 12 Republicans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United States soldiers performed a closing ceremony on Oct. 20 for a base in Tikrit, now under the control of Iraqi forces. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); OMAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011



1381 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: What's Luck Got to Do With It?

BYLINE: By JIM COLLINS and MORTEN T. HANSEN. 
Jim Collins is the author of the worldwide best seller ''Good to Great.'' This article was adapted from ''Great by Choice: Uncertainty, Chaos, and Luck -- Why Some Thrive Despite Them All,'' which was written with Morten T. Hansen and published this month.

 BODY:
BETTER to be lucky than good, the adage goes.
And maybe that's true -- if you just want to be merely good, not much better than average. But what if you want to build or do something great? And what if you want to do so in today's unstable and unpredictable world?
Recently, we completed a nine-year research study of some of the most extreme business successes of modern times. We examined entrepreneurs who built small enterprises into companies that outperformed their industries by a factor of 10 in highly turbulent environments. We call them 10Xers, for ''10 times success.''
The very nature of this study -- how some people thrive in uncertainty, lead in chaos, deal with a world full of big, disruptive forces that we cannot predict or control -- led us to smack into the question, ''Just what is the role of luck?'' 
Could it be that leaders' skills account for the difference between just meeting their industry's average performance (1X success) and doubling it (2X)? But that luck accounts for all the difference between 2X and 10X?
Maybe, or maybe not.
But how on Earth could we go about quantifying something as elusive as ''luck''? The breakthrough came in seeing luck as an event, not as some indefinable aura. We defined a ''luck event'' as one that meets three tests. First, some significant aspect of the event occurs largely or entirely independent of the actions of the enterprise's main actors. Second, the event has a potentially significant consequence -- good or bad. And, third, it has some element of unpredictability.
We systematically found 230 significant luck events across the history of our study's subjects. We considered good luck, bad luck, the timing of luck and the size of ''luck spikes.'' Adding up the evidence, we found that the 10X cases weren't generally ''luckier'' than the comparison cases. (We compared the 10X companies with a control group of companies that failed to become great in the same extreme environments.)
The 10X cases and the control group both had luck, good and bad, in comparable amounts, so the evidence leads us to conclude that luck doesn't cause 10X success. The crucial question is not, ''Are you lucky?'' but ''Do you get a high return on luck?''
Return on luck: We call it ROL.
SO why did Bill Gates become a 10Xer, building a great software company in the personal computer revolution? Through one lens, you might see Mr. Gates as incredibly lucky. He just happened to have been born into an upper-middle-class American family that had the resources to send him to a private school. His family happened to enroll him at Lakeside School in Seattle, which had a Teletype connection to a computer upon which he could learn to program -- something that was unusual for schools in the late 1960s and early '70s.
He also just happened to have been born at the right time, coming of age as the advancement of microelectronics made the PC inevitable. Had he been born 10 years later, or even just five years later, he would have missed the moment.
Mr. Gates's friend Paul Allen just happened to see a cover article in the January 1975 issue of Popular Electronics, titled ''World's First Microcomputer Kit to Rival Commercial Models.'' It was about the Altair, designed by a small company in Albuquerque. Mr. Gates and Mr. Allen had the idea to convert the programming language Basic into a product that could be used on the Altair, which would put them in position to be the first to sell such a product for a personal computer. Mr. Gates went to college at Harvard, which just happened to have a PDP-10 computer upon which he could develop and test his ideas.
Wow, Bill Gates was really lucky, right?
Yes, he was. But luck is not why Bill Gates became a 10Xer. Consider these questions:
Was Bill Gates the only person of his era who grew up in an upper middle-class American family?
Was he the only person born in the mid-1950s who attended a secondary school with access to computing?
Was he the only person who went to a college with computer resources in the mid-'70s? The only one who read the Popular Electronics article? The only one who knew how to program in Basic?
No, no, no, no and no.
Lakeside may have been one of the first schools to have a computer that students could use during those years, but it wasn't the only such school.
Mr. Gates may have been a math and computer whiz kid at a top college that had computers in 1975, but he wasn't the only math and computer whiz kid at Harvard, Stanford, Princeton, Yale, M.I.T., Caltech, Carnegie Mellon, Berkeley, U.C.L.A., the University of Chicago, Georgia Tech, Cornell, Dartmouth, Southern Cal, Columbia, Northwestern, Penn, Michigan or any number of other top colleges with comparable or even better computer resources.
Mr. Gates wasn't the only person who knew how to program in Basic; the language was developed a decade earlier by Dartmouth professors, and it was widely known by 1975, used in academics and industry. And what about all the master's and Ph.D. students in electrical engineering and computer science who had even more computer expertise than Mr. Gates on the day the Popular Electronics article appeared? Any could have decided to abandon their studies and start a personal computer software company. And computer experts already working in industry and academia could have done the same.
But how many of them changed their life plans -- and cut their sleep to near zero, essentially inhaling food so as not to let eating interfere with work -- to throw themselves into writing Basic for the Altair? How many defied their parents, dropped out of college and moved to Albuquerque to work with the Altair? How many had Basic for the Altair written, debugged and ready to ship before anyone else?
Thousands of people could have done the same thing that Mr. Gates did, at the same time. But they didn't.
The difference between Mr. Gates and similarly advantaged people is not luck. Mr. Gates went further, taking a confluence of lucky circumstances and creating a huge return on his luck. And this is the important difference.
Luck, good and bad, happens to everyone, whether we like it or not. But when we look at the 10Xers, we see people like Mr. Gates who recognize luck and seize it, leaders who grab luck events and make much more of them.
This ability to achieve a high ROL at pivotal moments has a huge multiplicative effect for 10Xers. They zoom out to recognize when a luck event has happened and to consider whether they should let it disrupt their plans. Imagine if Mr. Gates had said to Paul Allen after seeing the Popular Electronics article: ''Well, Paul, I'm kind of focused on my studies here at Harvard right now. Let's wait a few years, and then I'll be ready to start.''
When we examined less successful companies, we saw a generally poor overall return on luck. Some of the comparison cases had extraordinary sequences of good luck yet showed a spectacular ability to fritter that luck away. When the time came to execute on their good fortune, they stumbled. They didn't fail for lack of good luck. They failed for lack of superb execution.
WHILE getting a high return on good luck is an essential skill for 10Xers, getting a high return on bad luck can be a truly defining moment. Consider the 10X case of Progressive Insurance.
On Nov. 8, 1988, Peter Lewis, the chief executive, received news that shocked the insurance industry. California voters had passed Proposition 103, a punitive attack on car insurance companies. Prop 103 required 20 percent price reductions and refunds to customers, plunging a huge auto insurance market into chaos. Progressive had significant exposure, with nearly a quarter of its entire business from that one state -- bang! -- severely damaged by a 51 percent vote on a single day.
Mr. Lewis zoomed out to ask, ''What the heck is going on?'' He placed a call to a former Princeton classmate, Ralph Nader. Mr. Nader had long been a consumer rights activist, at one point leading a sort of special forces unit nicknamed Nader's Raiders, and he had championed Proposition 103. The message that Mr. Lewis heard: People hate you. Or, in other words, people simply hated dealing with insurance companies, so they revolted, screaming with their votes.
''People were saying, 'We hate your guts. We're going to kill you. And we don't give a damn,' '' Mr. Lewis said.
Chastened by what he had heard, he called his staff together and told everyone, ''Our customers actually hate us.'' He challenged his team to create a better company.
Mr. Lewis came to see Proposition 103 as a gift, and he used it to deepen the company's core purpose and to reduce the economic cost and trauma caused by auto accidents. The company would create its ''immediate response'' claims service: No matter when you had an accident, Progressive would be available -- 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Claims adjusters would work from a fleet of vans and S.U.V.'s dispatched to policy holders' homes or even directly to an accident scene.
By 1995, Progressive could note this achievement: in 80 percent of cases, its adjusters would have visited the customer, ready to issue a check within 24 hours of an accident.
In 1987, the year before Proposition 103, Progressive ranked No. 13 in the American private-passenger auto insurance market. By 2002, it had reached No. 4. Years later, Mr. Lewis called Proposition 103 ''the best thing that ever happened to this company.''
Progressive and Mr. Lewis illustrate how 10Xers shine when clobbered by setbacks and misfortune, turning bad luck into good results. They use difficulty as a catalyst to deepen purpose, recommit to values, increase discipline, respond with creativity and heighten productive paranoia -- translating fear into extensive preparation and calm, clearheaded action. Resilience, not luck, is the signature of greatness.
Nietzsche wrote, ''What does not kill me, makes me stronger.'' We all get bad luck. The question is how to use it to turn it into ''one of the best things that ever happened,'' to not let it become a psychological prison.
WE came across a remarkable moment at the very start of the history of Southwest Airlines, described by its first chief executive, Lamar Muse, in his book, ''Southwest Passage.''
''The very first Sunday morning of Southwest's life, we narrowly escaped a disaster,'' Mr. Muse wrote. ''During the takeoff run, the right thrust-reverser deployed. Only the captain's instantaneous reaction allowed him to recover control and make a tight turn for an emergency landing on one engine.''
What if the jet had smashed into the ground in the first week of building the company? Would there even be a Southwest Airlines today? If we all have some combination of both heads (lucky flips) and tails (unlucky flips), and if the ratio of heads to tails tends to even out over time, we need to be skilled, strong, prepared and resilient to endure the bad luck long enough to eventually get good luck. The Southwest pilot had to be skilled and prepared before the thrust-reverser deployed.
There's an interesting asymmetry between good and bad luck. A single stroke of good luck, no matter how big, cannot by itself make a great company. But a single stroke of extremely bad luck, or an extended sequence of bad-luck events that creates a catastrophic outcome, can terminate the quest.
The 10Xers exercise productive paranoia, combined with empirical creativity and fanatic discipline, to create huge margins of safety. If you stay in the game long enough, good luck tends to return, but if you get knocked out, you'll never have the chance to be lucky again. Luck favors the persistent, but you can persist only if you survive.
After finishing our luck analysis for ''Great by Choice,'' we realized that getting a high ROL required a new mental muscle. There are smart decisions and wise decisions. And one form of wisdom is the ability to judge when to let luck disrupt our plans. Not all time in life is equal. The question is, when the unequal moment comes, do we recognize it, or just let it slip? But, just as important, do we have the fanatic, obsessive discipline to keep marching, to push the opportunity to the extreme, to make the most of the chances we're given?
Getting a high ROL requires throwing yourself at the luck event with ferocious intensity, disrupting your life and not letting up. Bill Gates didn't just get a lucky break and cash in his chips. He kept pushing, driving, working -- and sustained that effort for more than two decades. That's not luck -- that's return on luck.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MICROSOFT: A TURN OF THE PC TIDE: In 1980, Digital Research developed the leading non-Apple operating system for personal computers. Luckily for Bill Gates, left, it failed to impress I.B.M., so Big Blue turned to Microsoft. At the time, Microsoft didn't have an operating system -- and Mr. Gates had no plans to create one. But he recognized the moment and committed his young company to a brutal schedule to develop the system for the I.B.M. PC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENNY RAY ABRAMS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
INTEL: GOODBYE AND HELLO: Japanese companies unleashed a price war in DRAM computer chips in the mid-'80s, driving down prices 80 percent in two years. The business offered nothing but misery -- bad luck for Intel, as DRAM chips were its main business. Gordon E. Moore, right, and Andrew S. Grove (shown in 2001) asked themselves what new managers would do. The answer: Get out of DRAMs. So Mr. Grove suggested that he and Mr. Moore leave the company, metaphorically speaking, and return as those new managers. They exited memory chips and committed Intel to the new market for microprocessors, for which it's known today. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
AMGEN: HELP WANTED, AND FOUND: In 1981, Fu-Kuen Lin, a Taiwanese scientist, happened to see a classified job ad from Amgen, then a small start-up company. Mr. Lin happened to be looking for a job -- and that lucky break became a defining moment for the company. George B. Rathmann, its founding C.E.O. (below left, with Mr. Lin), recognized the scientist's talent and drive and built an environment where he could thrive. Mr. Lin logged 16-hour days to isolate and clone what is known as the EPO gene, which led to one of the biggest biotechnology products of all time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMGEN)
 STRYKER: FILLING A VACUUM: When Lee Stryker died in a plane crash in 1976, the company was left without a C.E.O. or a clear heir to its leadership. The board hired John W. Brown (at right, shown in 1991), who would prove to be one of the most extraordinary C.E.O.'s of the last half-century. Mr. Brown, who led the company for 27 years, transformed it from a small, privately held family concern into a major medical products company that became a darling of Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STRYKER CORPORATION)(BU10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARC PHARES/EPIC STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Great by Choice (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1382 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Let's Just Be Friends...

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT. 
Geoff rey Wheatcroft, an English journalist and author of ''Yo, Blair!,'' is writing a book on the legacy of Winston Churchill.

 BODY:
Every four years, as the American people embark on the task of electing a president, Europeans are reminded that they simply don't understand America. At least I don't, and I like to think that I know the United States better than many Englishmen.
I first set foot in America 46 years ago during the summer before entering university, and I've since visited as often as I could. Although I live in the west of England, I write largely for American publications. I visit Austin, Tex., from time to time to lecture at the University of Texas and fully consider myself a long-distance Longhorns fan. (Yes, I know, news of the Red River massacre reached even Somerset, but as an Arsenal supporter, I have been emotionally conditioned for calamity.) 
And yet I know just what G. K. Chesterton meant when he said that nowhere on earth does an Englishman feel as much a stranger as in the United States. That may be truer now, as I see very clearly that our two continents are drifting apart. Far from the world becoming flatter or smaller, the Atlantic is growing wider, politically and emotionally. For much of the past century the two sides have been bound together by what now appear to have been temporary circumstances -- the series of military partnerships from World War I through the cold war. There were deep underpinnings for what Winston Churchill first called the special relationship, but what's curious is that we should think it still exists. Will history see the years of ''Atlanticism'' as a passing episode, before America turns to a manifest destiny elsewhere?
Election time only emphasizes our differences. I'm not quite sure when American politics became a contest in piety, but so it has, in a way that is simply unimaginable today in Western Europe. Faith is more competitive than even 11 years ago when George W. Bush won the election, after a fashion. Mitt Romney allays doubts about his Mormonism by nervously assuring us that Jesus Christ is his Lord and Savior. But then Rick Perry says that, too -- as does Barack Obama.
It's no wonder that this parade of faith has Europeans looking on with perplexity and derision. Despite the First Amendment, it's Europe that effectively separates church and state. Devout American politicians who criticize a godless continent may forget that secular European leaders merely reflect their electorates, who have after all tolerated Silvio (Bunga Bunga) Berlusconi and Nicolas Sarkozy -- and even his erstwhile rival Dominique Strauss-Kahn. While Tony Blair's rather weird memoir contains a line at the end saying he has always had ''a passion bigger than politics, which is religion,'' that shows only what an oddity Blair was in his own country. And he knew it. When, as prime minister, Blair was asked about the question of faith, his press officer snapped, ''We don't do God''; and when another interviewer once asked if he had ever prayed with Bush the Younger, Blair flustered with embarrassment. Perhaps that's because in my country we have a Church of England, ''by law established,'' whose supreme governor is the queen -- and whose services are attended by about 2 percent of the population.
The continental drift should have been perceptible decades ago. In 1967, Edward Heath, then leader of the British Conservative Party, gave a series of lectures at Harvard in which he presciently foresaw ''a shift in power in the modern world,'' in the form of a reorientation of American interest from Europe to Asia. This turn has taken longer than he might have guessed -- when he became prime minister in 1970, Heath was distinctly cool toward Washington -- but it is now plainly happening. After all, America kept out of Europe's way until events forced it, reluctantly, to become a European power.
Even when prime ministers invoked the so-called special Anglo-American relationship, the appearance of personal amity often concealed sharp tensions, a point made by the historian Richard Aldous in his forthcoming book ''Reagan and Thatcher: The Difficult Relationship.'' The first decade of the present century really did see an intimate meeting of minds, over Iraq and much else. In his memoir ''Decision Points,'' Bush calls Blair ''my closest partner and best friend on the world stage,'' which was true enough, even if not quite what the British people bargained for when they elected Blair.
Religion aside, political differences between the countries have been formed by profoundly diverse historical experiences. If we still use the vocabulary of left and right, then the veteran observer William Pfaff is correct to say that there is no important political party in Western Europe today that does not stand to the left of the Democrats on social issues. Despite all their demographic challenges, European countries are not going to abandon their welfare systems. Nor are they going to lose their aversion to war. While Iraq may have been a high point of the special relationship, it was also the beginning of its end. Whereas many Americans regret the war, resentment in David Cameron's Britain -- the belief that the country was transformed into a client state of Washington -- is more bitter.
While Europe and the United States face grave, though distinctive, economic crises, the other common interests that bound them are fading. Whatever else Angela Merkel may do, she is not going to invade Belgium or Poland, and Putin's Russia, though obnoxious enough, scarcely represents a strategic threat. As to the Middle East, Europe and America are much concerned, but their interests don't necessarily coincide. (The bombing campaign that helped bring down Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi could prove a final hurrah.) Writing on the Times Op-Ed page recently, Jeremi Suri of the University of Texas said that the Obama administration should set three realistic international goals: maintaining the dollar as the credible global reserve currency; halting the proliferation of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons; and cultivating peaceful relations with China. Nowhere was Europe mentioned.
Of course the British and Americans will remain linked by language and culture, as they were long before they became military allies. But it might be time to call it a day on our so-called special relationship. In one of his stirring broadcasts, in the spring of 1941, Churchill ended with a line from the poet Arthur Hugh Clough: ''In front, the sun climbs slow, how slowly/But westward, look, the land is bright.'' The story of this century could be the United States heeding those words, in a way Churchill never imagined.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARL COURT/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); COLD WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); WORLD WAR I (65%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); TONY BLAIR (60%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); RICK PERRY (55%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011



1383 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, October 30th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 30, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending October 15, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList113KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 21KITCHEN CONFIDENTIAL, by Anthony Bourdain. (Bloomsbury Publishing) A memoir-expos&#233; of the restaurant world. 322BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company) A look at some of the places &#8212; Greece, Ireland, Iceland &#8212; hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008, and at how it happened. 4438HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 5538UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 632SERIOUSLY... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 7814A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman tells of her ordeal of being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 8923IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 978MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W.W. Norton &#38; Company) How Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, has produced successful teams despite having one of the smallest payrolls in baseball. 1062THIS IS HERMAN CAIN!, by Herman Cain. (Pocket Books) The life and views of the Republican presidential candidate and former C.E.O. of Godfather&#8217;s Pizza. 111038THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 121128BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 131310AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 141MEMOIR OF A MILK CARTON KID, by Tanya Nicole Kach with Lawrence Fisher. (Tate Publishing) The story of a troubled child who spent over a decade as prisoner of her school&#8217;s security guard. 15126THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (MacMillan) How America fell behind in the world it invented, and how it can come back. 16154DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Knopf Doubleday) The life and death by assassination (and medical malpractice) of President James A. Garfield. 17212WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) Burleton&#8217;s memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse from first grade until the day she moved out of her mother&#8217;s house. 18144CONFIDENCE MEN, by Ron Suskind. (HarperCollins Publishers) President Obama and his advisers, often at odds with one another, respond to the economic crisis. 191838THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 201LUCKY MAN, by Michael J. Fox. (Hyperion Press) A memoir by the film and television actor, who was told 20 years ago that he had Parkinson&#39;s disease. 211718THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (W.W. Norton &#38; Company) The people who saw the real estate crash coming and made billions from their foresight. 222316THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday) How an architect and a serial killer were linked by the Chicago World&#39;s Fair of 1893. 231IT&#39;S SO EASY, by Duff McKagan. (Touchstone) A founding member of Guns N&#8217; Roses shares the story of his rise to the pinnacle of fame and fortune, his crash and his path to sobriety. 242421OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent. 2515CLEOPATRA, by Stacy Schiff. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) The Macedonian-Egyptian queen was much more than the lover of Caesar and Mark Antony. This biography portrays her in all her ambition, audacity and formidable intelligence.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. THE BOY WHO CAME BACK FROM HEAVEN, by Kevin and Alex Malarkey. (Tyndale)
27. THE COLOR OF RAIN, by Michael Spehn. (Zondervan)
28. THE SWERVE, by Stephen Greenblatt. (Norton)
29. IN MY TIME, by Dick Cheney with Liz Cheney. (Threshold Editions)
30. THE BETTER ANGELS OF OUR NATURE, by Steven Pinker. (Penguin Group)
31. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday)
32. BEYOND BELIEF, by Josh Hamilton and Tim Keown. (FaithWords)
33. MY LIFE, DELETED, by Scott Bolzan, Joan Bolzan and Caitlin Rother. (HarperCollins)
34. MARY BOLEYN, by Alison Weir. (Random House)
35. THE PRICE OF CIVILIZATION, by Jeffrey D. Sachs. (Random House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); BASEBALL (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); RUNNING (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING PLC (55%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (53%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (52%)

TICKER: BMY (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (67%) UNITED STATES (72%); ICELAND (69%); GERMANY (67%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1384 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, October 30th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 30, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending October 15, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList113KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The commentator looks at the heart-stopping events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 222BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $25.95.) A look at some of the places &#8212; Greece, Ireland, Iceland &#8212; hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008, and at how it happened. 332SERIOUSLY... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central, $26.99.) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 4648UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 555JACQUELINE KENNEDY: HISTORIC CONVERSATIONS ON LIFE WITH JOHN F. KENNEDY, . (Hyperion, $60.) Recordings and transcripts of a seven-part interview with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. in 1964. 676THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $28.) How America fell behind in the world it invented, and how it can come back. 742THIS IS HERMAN CAIN!, by Herman Cain. (Threshold, $25.) The life and views of the Republican presidential candidate and former C.E.O. of Godfather&#8216;s Pizza. 81223IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 9*94DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Doubleday, $28.95.) The life and death by assassination (and medical malpractice) of President James A. Garfield. 101014A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $24.99.) A woman tells of being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 113THE QUEST, by Daniel Yergin. (Penguin Press, $37.95.) How the need for energy &#8212; especially, but not only, oil &#8212; drives global political and economic change. 12113RIN TIN TIN, by Susan Orlean. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $26.99.) The German shepherd&#8217;s journey from orphaned puppy to movie star and international celebrity. 13*84CONFIDENCE MEN, by Ron Suskind. (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.99.) President Obama and his advisers, often at odds with one another, respond to the economic crisis. 141THE BETTER ANGELS OF OUR NATURE, by Steven Pinker. (Viking, $40.) The Harvard psychologist argues that we are living in the most peaceable period of human existence, thanks to developments &#173;&#8212; government, literacy, trade &#8212; that make it possible for people to control their violent impulses. 15134THE SWERVE, by Stephen Greenblatt. (Norton, $26.95.) A Renaissance book hunter rediscovered Lucretius&#8217; classic &#8220;On the Nature of Things&#8221; and kept it from disappearing; it strongly influenced later thinkers.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. IN MY TIME, by Dick Cheney with Liz Cheney. (Threshold Editions)
17. THE PRICE OF CIVILIZATION, by Jeffrey D. Sachs. (Random House)
18. IT&#39;S SO EASY, by Duff McKagan. (Touchstone)
19. BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown)
20. KISSES FROM KATIE, by Katie Davis. (Howard Books)
21. SWEETNESS, by Jeff Pearlman. (Gotham)
22. TIME FOR OUTRAGE, by St&#195;&#169;phane Hessel. (Twelve)
23. George Harrison, by Olivia Harrison. (Abrams)
24. MY SONG, by Harry Belafonte and Michael Shnayerson. (Knopf)
25. THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
26. WAR OF THE WORLDVIEWS, by Deepak Chopra and Leonard Mlodinow. (Harmony)
27. YOUR MEDICAL MIND, by Jerome Groopman and Pamela Hartzband. (Penguin Press)
28. EISENHOWER: THE WHITE HOUSE YEARS, by Jim Newton. (Doubleday)
29. MY LIFE, DELETED, by Scott Bolzan, Joan Bolzan and Caitlin Rother. (HarperOne)
30. HERE COMES TROUBLE, by Michael Moore. (Grand Central)
31. COLUMBUS, by Laurence Bergreen. (Viking)
32. ARGUABLY, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve)
33. HEMINGWAY&#39;S BOAT, by Paul Hendrickson. (Knopf)
34. FIVE CHIEFS, by John Paul Stevens. (Little, Brown)
35. THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION, by Jeremy Rifkin. (Palgrave Macmillan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (85%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (70%); ELLEN DEGENERES (50%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (75%); GERMANY (68%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1385 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: How Much Does Health Cost?

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL. 
An oncologist, a vice provost and professor of medical ethics and health policy at the University of Pennsylvania, and a former White House adviser. He will contribute regular opinion columns to The New York Times.

 BODY:
If you have heard it once, you have heard it hundreds of times. ''The United States spends too much on health care.'' This is not a partisan point. You can hear this from Republicans as well as Democrats. ''We know that our families, our economy and our nation itself will not succeed in the 21st century if we continue to be held down by the weight of rapidly rising health care costs,'' President Obama said in 2009. Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, agrees: ''There is no serious dispute - on either side of the aisle.''
Unfortunately, few people really understand how much we spend on health care, how much we need to spend to provide quality care, and the difference between the two. Do we spend too much? Would cutting costs require rationing, or worse, death panels? 
Let's begin with the costs. In 2010, the United States spent $2.6 trillion on health care, over $8,000 per American. This is such an enormous amount of money, it's difficult to grasp.
Consider this: If we stacked single dollar bills on top of one another, $2.6 trillion would reach more than 170,000 miles - nearly three-quarters of the way to the moon. Or, compare our spending to that of other countries. France has the fifth largest economy in the world, with a gross domestic product of nearly $2.6 trillion. The United States spends on health care alone what the 65 million people of France spend on everything: education, defense, the environment, scientific research, vacations, food, housing, cars, clothes and health care. In other words, our health care spending is the fifth largest economy in the world.
Or compare it to the second largest economy in the world, China. China's G.D.P. is $5.9 trillion (compared to America's $14.6 trillion). So the United States, with a population a quarter of the size of China's, spends just on health care slightly less than half of what China spends on everything.
It is not just how much the United States spends on health care that is important, it is also how fast that amount is growing. For more than 30 years, health care costs have been growing 2 percent faster than the overall economy. That means every year we spend ever more on health care and therefore have to spend less on other things - or borrow money to pay for the extra health care.
If we continue at this rate of growth, health care will be roughly one-third of the entire economy by 2035 - one of every three dollars will go to health care - and nearly half by 2080.
This level of spending on health care is high, but is it worth it? Does it make us healthier?
The fact is that when it comes to health care, the United States is on another planet. The United States spends around 50 percent more per person than the next highest-spending countries, Switzerland and Norway.
Some economists say this comparison is inaccurate because it does not correct for the facts that brand name drugs cost more, and doctors and nurses earn more, in the United States than they do in other countries. But even correcting for these differences in prices, the United States still spends 15 percent more than the next highest-spending country - and about a quarter more than countries with some of the best health care systems in the world, like Germany and France.
What this means is that there is so much money in the American health care system, we can control spending without having to ration care. No one seriously claims that France or Germany ration care. We could get down to their level of spending without forcing Americans to wait in lines for heart surgery or cataract removal.
The truth is, the United States is not getting 20 or 30 percent better health care or results than other countries. While there are peaks of greatness, especially at some of America's leading academic health centers and in integrated health care plans, the quality is uneven. And quality is a problem that affects all of us, rich and poor. Almost no matter how we measure it - whether by life expectancy or by survival for specific diseases like asthma, heart disease or some cancers; by the rate of medical errors; or simply by satisfaction with health services - the United States is actually doing worse than a number of countries, like France and Germany, that spend considerably less.
Even if you do not like comparing the United States with Europe, it is widely acknowledged that within the United States there is no clear link between higher spending on health care and longer life, less disability or better quality of life. A 2003 study published in Annals of Internal Medicine found that Medicare patients who lived in areas with higher health care spending did not get better results. In some cases, more spending even appears to equal poorer health. A 2004 study in Health Affairs found that there was actually worse care in states with higher Medicare spending.
The $2.6 trillion the United States is spending on health care is too much, and we can reduce it without rationing or sacrificing quality.
This article has been updated to include a chart.
This is the first in a series of articles by Ezekiel J. Emanuel on the cost of health care. Next week he will examine a number of common money-saving proposals, and explain why they won't really help.
A version of this column will appear in print on Sunday, October 30, 2011.
Correction: November 6, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An opinion essay on Oct. 30 about the cost of health care gave an incorrect percentage for the difference between health care spending per capita in the United States and that of each of the next two highest-spending countries. It is around 50 percent higher, not 35 percent higher.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAMI NIEMI)
 CHART: Spending on Health Care Per Person: Figures are for 2009, the latest data available for all countries. Adjusted for purchasing power parity. (Source: Org. for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011



1386 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: A Bouquet of Offerings To Test Uncertain Waters

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
DESPITE the overstuffed catalogs and upbeat marketing campaigns, it's been a nerve-racking six months in the auction world. With all the uncertainty surrounding the financial markets, putting together the important November auctions has been a challenge for Sotheby's, Christie's and, to a lesser extent, Phillips de Pury. Those considering selling are wondering if the assets on their walls are safer there than the stocks in their portfolio. And collectors sitting on cash and eager to buy are asking themselves, ''At what price?''
''Nobody really knows what a masterpiece is worth today,'' said Tobias Meyer, head of Sotheby's contemporary art department. ''This season is going to be a test of where the market really is.'' 
When the season kicks off at Christie's on Tuesday evening, buyers will get a chance to bid on a safe and conservative mix of paintings, sculptures, drawings and prints by tried-and-true artists. Gone are the days when auctions included the unexpected; gone too, for the moment anyway, are the more arcane works that appeal mostly to connoisseurs.
The biggest problem facing the auction houses has been rustling up big-ticket artworks. Little estate material -- the bread-and-butter of the auction houses -- came on the market this fall. And while record-breaking prices have been made during the bleakest of economic times, nobody knows what will happen this season. ''Collectors had a wait-and-see attitude,'' said Brett Gorvy, the head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department. ''A lot of the business-getting was about relationships. And many deals were finalized at the last minute.''
It is clear from the Impressionist and modern art catalogs that a number of museums, eager to clean house, are willing to take a gamble on the market, hoping some of today's new buyers -- predominately from Asia, Russia and the Middle East -- will be impressed by a museum provenance. For auction house experts, that's a compelling sales tool. But seasoned buyers know that much of the art being sold by museums is far from their best and often has been languishing in storage.
Yet there are some pretty Impressionist paintings and sculptures for sale. There are also works by modern masters like Picasso and Matisse and a large helping of Surrealist images that have been all the rage in recent years. Among the standouts at Sotheby's are a colorful Klimt landscape, estimated to bring around $25 million, and the first of Matisse's suite of four sculptures depicting the back of a woman that is hoped to go for $20 million to $30 million. Christie's is betting that a Degas sculpture of a young ballerina could fetch $25 million to $35 million, and that a Giacometti bronze of an elongated woman from his ''Woman of Venice'' series may bring $10 million to $15 million. (The Matisse and the Giacometti have been on the market privately for months. Since both remain unsold, the sellers are trying their luck at auction, often a last resort.)
Classic Pop images seem to be in endless supply. One of Phillips de Pury's top paintings is Andy Warhol's ''Nine Gold Marilyns (Reversal Series)'' from 1980 that is estimated at $7 million to $10 million. And Christie's is selling an image of Elizabeth Taylor belonging to the newsprint magnate Peter M. Brant that is estimated to bring $16 million to $19 million; ''Four Campbell's Soup Cans,'' which it hopes will sell for $7 million to $10 million; and a portrait of Liza Minnelli that Warhol gave her in 1978. The big money at Sotheby's is on abstract images by popular names like Gerhard Richter and Clyfford Still.
''The major mission of the season is persuading sellers to keep estimates low,'' Mr. Gorvy said. Nonetheless estimates seem to be surprisingly all over the place, from unrealistically high because of sellers' ambitious expectations to artificially low, a familiar ploy to encourage bidding.
Dealers -- along with collectors -- look closely at the results of these sales as a bellwether not just of prices but also of tastes and trends. Does today's big money want dreamy Impressionist canvases or more severe Surrealist images? Will Pop Art have staying power or are collectors instead gravitating toward abstract canvases by de Kooning, Richter or Still?
A sampling of the season's more intriguing plot lines follows.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: He Knew She Was a Winner: It isn't the most expensive Warhol coming to auction this fall. Nor is it anywhere near the most desirable. But it has a good back story. It was a present from the artist to Liza Minnelli. The two were longtime friends, having met through Halston, the dress designer. ''I was nominated for a Tony for my part in 'The Act,' but I never thought I was going to get it,'' Ms. Minnelli recalled in a recent telephone interview. ''But Andy kept saying: 'I know you'll win. I know you'll win.''' She continued: ''He surprised me with this painting the day of the Tony Awards, right before I was leaving to go there. I couldn't believe it.'' And win she did. Like so many of Warhol's celebrity portraits this one is based on a Polaroid, but it is hand painted. Why, then, has Ms. Minnelli decided to sell her portrait? ''I've had it a long time,'' she said. ''I've looked at myself enough
ARTIST: Andy Warhol TITLE: Liza AUCTION HOUSE: Christie's ESTIMATE: $800,000 to $1.2 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S)
Museum's Guarantee: This work, along with three others by the Abstract Expressionist painter Clyfford Still, were bequeathed to the City and County of Denver by Patricia Still, his widow, who died in 2005. Denver officials chose Sotheby's to sell the paintings -- as a group -- to a museum, with the proceeds going toward the endowment of the Clyfford Still Museum, which is to open Nov. 18. When Sotheby's missed its Sept. 19 deadline, it decided to auction the paintings individually. Getting the business was competitive (and Christie's hired lawyers to fight the decision). According to the contract Sotheby's has given a guarantee of $25 million for all four paintings, which together could total $51 million to $71.5 million. Sotheby's could make as much as $15 million from the deal in its commission. Among the best of them is this painting, with its jagged and thick brush strokes in fiery reds and blacks, that was created at the height of Still's career. ARTIST: Clyfford Still TITLE: ''1949-A- No. 1'' AUCTION: HOUSE Sotheby's ESTIMATE: $25 million to $35 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S)
A War Story, About a Landscape George Jorisch, an 83-year-old retired camera store manager from Montreal, acquired this painting from his great-uncle, the collector and Austrian iron magnate Victor Zuckerkandl, and his wife, Paula. It had been hanging in Mr. Jorisch's family home in Purkersdorf, Austria, but was seized during World War II. It is one of two Klimts that were returned to Mr. Jorisch after years of attempts to recover them. (The other one -- ''Church in Cassone, Landscape with Cypresses''-- sold for $43.2 million in 2010.) This landscape was thought to have been painted in Klimt's Vienna studio in 1914 after he spent the summer with Emilie Floge, his model in Weissenbach, a town on Lake Attersee in Austria. For years the canvas had hung in the Museum der Moderne in Salzburg, Austria. Sotheby's is betting it will be among its top sellers. Dealers think the $25 million estimate is artificially low to lure bidders and is likely to go for far more. ARTIST: Gustav Klimt TITLE: ''Litzlberg on the Attersee'' AUCTION HOUSE: Sotheby's ESTIMATE $25 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S)
Woman Hides in the Paint: It was inevitable that the Museum of Modern Art's current blockbuster Willem de Kooning retrospective would bring a rash of de Koonings to the market. Leave it to a trader to spot the opportunity to capitalize on the moment. Although the seller is not printed in the catalog, experts say it is John D. Arnold, the Houston hedge fund billionaire. The painting, from 1971, was made when de Kooning was working out of a light-filled studio in Springs, on the East End of Long Island, which accounts for the thickly applied shades of pinks, reds and golds. Look closely. In the upper left-hand corner is a suggestion of a female form, something the artist played with in many guises throughout his career. ARTIST: Willem de Kooning TITLE: Flowers, Mary's Table AUCTION HOUSE: Christie's ESTIMATE: $8 million to $12 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S)
A New Entry on the Scene
Phillips is pushing its luck with such a high estimate on this five-year-old painting. The year it was made, the Gagosian gallery (Cy Twombly's dealer) held a show of work from this series. Back then the asking price was believed to have been around $3 million per canvas. The high estimate this time underscores how uneven pricing is this season, considering that Christie's is selling another Twombly, a rare and early one, ''Untitled (Lexington, Virginia)'' from 1959, that it believes will bring $5 million to $7 million. Twombly, who died in July at 83, has long attracted a passionate and devoted group of collectors. While there are always speculators soon after an artist's death, the art world usually takes a wait-and-see-attitude, wondering how many choice works will eventually reach the market. And at what price. ARTIST: Cy Twombly TITLE: Untitled, 2006 AUCTION HOUSE: Phillips de Pury & Company ESTIMATE: $8 million to $12 million (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPS DE PURY)
Let Me Outta Here!
In 1988, when this painting fetched $2.1 million at Christie's, it was a record price for Roy Lichtenstein at auction. Now experts there are betting that it could bring up to $45 million
 the house has made a guarantee -- an undisclosed sum promised to the seller regardless of the outcome of a sale -- said to be more than $30 million and financed by a third party. No one knows whether prices for Pop Art will continue to rise, but Christie's is betting on the new rich from Asia, Russia and the Middle East, who are paying top dollar for classic images by famous artists. Painted in 1961, this is considered a perfect example of one of Lichtenstein's famous cartoon images. ''It's in that small group of pictures that have the truly iconic status,'' said Brett Gorvy of Christie's. ''And since it is has not been lent since it was purchased in 1988, it's a painting everyone's talking about but no one's seen.'' While Christie's isn't saying who the seller is, some experts say it is from the collection of Courtney Sale Ross, the widow of the former Time Warner chief executive, Steven J. Ross, who died in 1992. ARTIST: Roy Lichtenstein TITLE: ''I Can See the Whole Room! . . . and There's Nobody in It!'' AUCTION HOUSE: Christie's ESTIMATE: $35 million to $45 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); DANCERS (67%); BALLET (60%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (85%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: JOHN D ARNOLD (59%); LARRY GAGOSIAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (59%) VIRGINIA, USA (74%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (59%) ASIA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (86%); UNITED STATES (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1387 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Report Cites Women's Claims of Inappropriate Acts by Cain

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Cain campaign faces a new test with a report that the candidate was the target of complaints by women about inappropriate behavior. 

 BODY:
9:07 p.m. | Updated Two women who worked with Herman Cain at the National Restaurant Association in the 1990s complained of sexually suggestive behavior by him and later took financial payments before leaving the organization, accordingto a report by Politico on Sunday night.
The report comes as Mr. Cain continues to lead his rivals in national polls and in voter surveys in states that vote early in the Republican nominating fight. He was tied with Mitt Romney in this weekend's Iowa poll by The Des Moines Register.
Mr. Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, has no experience with political office. But his straight-talking approach and simple "9-9-9" tax plan has caught the imagination of many conservatives in the Republican primary.
In recent days, though, news organizations have begun digging into his record and his past. A New York Times article last week painted a picture of a campaign in some chaos, with aides being told to speak to Mr. Cain only when spoken to.
The Politico report alleges that at least two female employees of the restaurant lobbying organization had complained to colleagues and to senior officials there about inappropriate behavior by Mr. Cain.
Politico said it had determined the identities of the two women but declined to name them for reasons of "privacy concerns."
J.D. Gordon, the vice president for communications for Mr. Cain's presidential campaign, e-mailed a statement to The New York Times on Sunday night accusing "inside the Beltway" media of making unsubstantiated personal attacks on Mr. Cain.
"Dredging up thinly sourced allegations stemming from Mr. Cain's tenure as the Chief Executive Officer at the National Restaurant Association in the 1990s, political trade press are now casting aspersions on his character and spreading rumors that never stood up to the facts," Mr. Gordon said in the e-mail. "Since Washington establishment critics haven't had much luck in attacking Mr. Cain's ideas to fix a bad economy and create jobs, they are trying to attack him in any way they can."
Politico reported that a spokesman for Mr. Cain said he was "vaguely familiar" with the matter and that it had been resolved by the association's top lawyer.
The site quoted the same spokesman as later saying that "These are old and tired allegations that never stood up to the facts. This was settled amicably among all parties many years ago, and dredging this up now is merely part of a smear campaign meant to discredit a true patriot who is shaking up the political status quo."
The Web site said Mr. Cain was asked about the charges on Sunday as he left the Washington bureau of CBS News, where he had appeared on "Face the Nation." Politico reported that he said, "I am not going to comment on that." When asked whether he had ever been accused of harassment, the Web site reported that he said, "Have you ever been accused of sexual harassment?"
The report by Politico cites documents describing the accusations as well as unnamed sources who said they were familiar with the situation and its legal resolution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (65%); LAWYERS (60%) Cain, Herman; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Sexual Harassment; CBS News; Politico, The; Iowa; The Caucus

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (84%) CBS News; Politico, The

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Cain, Herman; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1388 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: MF Global Said to Be in Deal Talks With Interactive Brokers

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Shares of MF Global were halted for trading early on Monday, as the brokerage prepared to file for bankruptcy protection and sell some of its assets to the Interactive Brokers Group, according to people briefed on the matter. 

 BODY:
7:51 a.m. | Updated Shares in MF Global Holdings were halted for trading early on Monday, as the brokerage prepared to file for bankruptcy protection and sell some of its assets to the Interactive Brokers Group, according to people briefed on the matter.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a statement that it had suspended doing any business with MF Global until the firm "is fully capable of discharging the responsibilities set out in the New York Fed's policy." 
MF Global is a primary dealer, meaning that it is one of 22 firms allowed to trade directly with the Fed and make a market in securities like Treasury notes.
Original post Jon S. Corzine, whose political ambitions came to a halt nearly two years ago when he was defeated for re-election as governor of New Jersey, is running out of time to prevent his revived Wall Street career from collapsing in failure.
His firm, MF Global -- a powerhouse in the world of commodities and derivatives trading but little known outside Wall Street -- was working frantically toward a potential sale late on Sunday.
Those discussions, which narrowed to one bidder, Interactive Brokers, came after investors -- worried that MF Global was too vulnerable to the fallout from Europe's debt crisis -- deserted the firm, making it the first American financial institution to fall victim to those sovereign debt woes.
If the firm is unable to sell itself, other options, including bankruptcy, await. MF Global has hired restructuring and bankruptcy law firms including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, said people briefed on the matter but unauthorized to speak publicly. One option is for MF Global to follow a precedent set by Lehman Brothers in 2008 by seeking bankruptcy protection for the parent company while selling some assets to Interactive Brokers.
Other Wall Street firms have not been spared damage from the European debt crisis. Shares at firms as large as Morgan Stanley fell this month over concerns that they were exposed to Europe's troubles. And investment banks and brokerage firms are still licking their wounds from market volatility that has hurt trading operations.
MF Global began buying the debt of European countries like Italy, Portugal, Spain and Ireland last year, in a bet that the discounted prices of those bonds would soon recover. The gamble, though, went sour, and MF Global was hard hit as Greece's troubled economy spread woes across the Continent. Although European leaders appeared to make progress last week toward resolving those problems, and other firms rebounded, MF Global continued to suffer.
The last-ditch rescue effort is a major blow to the reputation of Mr. Corzine, 64, who formerly co-led Goldman Sachs and was also a United States senator. With a sale of MF Global, Mr. Corzine's role at the firm will almost certainly end, though he is expected to receive a severance payment of nearly $12.1 million.
Still, the departure will be bitter for Mr. Corzine, whose first stint on Wall Street ended with his ouster from Goldman Sachs. Along with Henry M. Paulson, another Goldman co-chief executive, who would later become Treasury secretary, Mr. Corzine, a former trader, led the firm through the Asian financial crisis of 1998. But trading losses in the last quarter of that year, on top of ill will within the firm over the decision to go public, led to Mr. Corzine's exit in January 1999.
He revived his career with a successful run for the Senate from New Jersey in 2000, and left the Senate in 2005 to run for governor of New Jersey. A weak economy and a corruption scandal helped Christopher J. Christie defeat him for re-election in 2009.
Mr. Corzine's arrival at MF Global in March 2010 was meant to be a triumphant return to Wall Street and to bond trading after a long absence. Though it is has operations worldwide, MF Global has just 2,800 employees, making it a fraction of the size of Goldman or Lehman.
Throughout the weekend, regulators focused on completing a deal that would sell at least a portion of the firm, a move that would avert a messy bankruptcy. But given its relatively small size, the firm is unlikely to send shock waves through the financial system.
Most of MF Global's business involves executing and clearing trades in commodities and derivatives for clients like hedge funds. When Mr. Corzine joined, he sought to transform it into a full-fledged investment bank, in part by making riskier trades using the firm's own capital.
A large part of that strategy backfired, as analysts and regulators worried about $6.3 billion in bonds issued by Italy, Spain, Belgium, Ireland and Portugal. By contrast, the much larger Morgan Stanley disclosed this month that it had just a $2.1 billion exposure to Europe.
Regulators were less confident in MF Global's wager, asking it in August to raise the amount of money backing its bonds. The firm complied, though it argued that the bonds were trading at a few cents below par value.
Analysts appeared unimpressed. Late last Monday, Moody's Investors Service downgraded the firm's credit rating, citing both weak financial performance and its European bond holdings. The next day, the firm reported a $186 million loss, its fourth loss in six quarters.
Two days later, both Moody's and another major agency, Fitch Ratings, downgraded MF Global to junk status. Such a move is disastrous for a financial firm, since it limits the number of trading parties willing to do business and raises borrowing costs.
Just as important, it can also scare customers, especially after the toppling of bigger firms during the financial crisis, like Bear Stearns and Lehman.
As of Friday, only a small percentage of customer money had flowed out MF Global's door, according to a person briefed on the matter. 
By the end of last week and through the weekend, Mr. Corzine and his advisers at Evercore Partners had called seemingly every major Wall Street firm, offering to sell MF Global, or at least some of its businesses or trading positions. While the firm had held talks with another potential buyer, Jefferies & Company, by Sunday evening Interactive Brokers appeared to be in pole position.
Founded in 1977 by its chief executive, Thomas Peterffy, Interactive Brokers is a discount brokerage firm that places trades for customers on 90 exchanges.
The two firms share a deal history of sorts. In 2005, both competed for assets of Refco, which had filed for bankruptcy. MF Global emerged the victor with a $323 million bid.

        
Europe's Debt Threatens MF Global, and Corzine
        
MF Global Put Up for Sale, This Weekend Only

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%) Evercore Partners; Interactive Brokers; Jon S. Corzine; MF Global; Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom; Corzine, Jon S; Futures and Options Trading; Interactive Brokers Group, Incorporated; MF Global Ltd; Interactive Brokers Group, Incorporated|IBKR|NASDAQ; MF Global Ltd|MF|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); INTERACTIVE BROKERS GROUP LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Interactive Brokers Group, Incorporated; MF Global Ltd

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); IBKR (NASDAQ) (58%) Interactive Brokers Group, Incorporated; IBKR; NASDAQ; Interactive Brokers Group, Incorporated; IBKR; NASDAQ; MF Global Ltd; MF; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Corzine, Jon S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (76%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1389 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Committing to Debates, Perry Plays Down the Issue

BYLINE: RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Perry says he has the skills to debate President Obama, despite concerns about his debate performances. 

 BODY:
Even as Rick Perry admits he has struggled during televised debates against the polished Mitt Romney and other G.O.P. candidates, the Texas governor maintains he could handle President Obama, a man he has acknowledged to be a "very good debater."
Mr. Perry's campaign now confirms he will take part in five Republican debates in November and December after suggesting he might not attend them following a series of lackluster performances that helped send his poll numbers spiraling downward.
And this morning he also told Fox News Sunday host Chris Wallace that he is not daunted by the possibility of a televised showdown with Mr. Obama, suggesting that he could defeat the incumbent president by pointing out on stage that Mr. Obama has turned the economy into what he likened to a "Frankenstein" monster.
The issue is key for many Republican voters in that part of Mr. Romney's appeal - and his current lead in the lead in the polls - is that many feel he stands the best shot at beating Mr. Obama, a goal that unites the Republican party.
By contrast, some Republicans have been put off by Mr. Perry's more awkward and less polished performances. Mr. Wallace, in the interview this morning, told Mr. Perry that many conservative voters "say, O.K., maybe he's not the greatest debater, but we need somebody next fall where there's going to be these three big debates, 100 million people watching each time, who's going to be able to get up on that stage with Barack Obama and make the case against him. And they worry based on your performance that you are not that man."
Mr. Perry was quick to dispute that, suggesting that his beliefs will draw enough of a distinction to lure voters.
"I'm not worried a bit that I'll be able to stand on the stage with Barack Obama and draw a very bright line, a real contrast between an individual who's lost 2.5 million jobs for this country, someone who is signaling to our opponents when we're going to pull out of a particular war zone, an individual who has taken an experiment with the American economy and turned it into absolute Frankenstein experience," Mr. Perry said. "I think I will stand on the stage and draw a clear contrast with Barack Obama."
But he also made clear that's not where he prefers to spend his time. Eighteen GOP debates is "way too many debates frankly. It's an incredible amount of time and preparation and what have you."
As for Mr. Romney, Mr. Perry has made a habit of hitting what he describes as the former Massachusetts governor's inconsistency on red-meat G.O.P. issues.
Usually he does it with veiled references, but he was more direct with Mr. Wallace.
"You go back through my record through 20-plus years, I have been a consistent conservative," Mr. Perry explained. "I have always been in favor of the Second Amendment. I've always been pro-life. I've always been a fiscal conservative. And Mitt's been on both sides of those issues. He's, you know, been for a ban on guns in Massachusetts. He's been for pro-abortion. He's been for, you know, supporting gay rights. And now, he's on the other side of those issues."
"We are very, very different from the standpoint of consistency on those issues that I've just mentioned."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Wallace, Chris; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Fox Broadcasting Co; Republican Party; Texas; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox Broadcasting Co; Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Wallace, Chris

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1390 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adviser Unloads on Romney

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: The Obama adviser David Plouffe takes aim at what he calls Mitt Romney's convenient positioning on key issues. 

 BODY:
David Plouffe, a senior adviser to President Obama and one of the chief architects of his 2008 victory, accused Mitt Romney of trimming his views for political gain and lacking the conviction needed to hold high office. The comments were unusual for their harsh assessment of Mr. Romney's politics and his character at this early stage of the campaign and for the fact that they came from an official serving in the White House rather than in Mr. Obama's Chicago-based re-election campaign.
Appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press" Sunday morning, Mr. Plouffe repeated the campaign's assertion that Mr. Romney, the former Republican governor of Massachusetts and a leading contender for his party's presidential nomination, "has no core."
He then listed a number of issues on which he contended that Mr. Romney had performed backflips to cater to conservative Republican voters.
"You know he was supportive of a cap-and-trade agreement, now he doesn't think that, you know, climate change is real," Mr. Plouffe said. "He was to the left of Ted Kennedy on gay rights issues and now he wants to amend the constitution to prohibit gay marriage. He was an extremely pro-choice governor now; he believes life begins at conception and would ban Roe v. Wade.
"So you look at issue after issue after issue, he's moved all over the place and I can tell you one thing. working a few steps down from the president, what you need in that office is conviction, you need to have a true compass, and you've got to be willing to make tough calls. And you get the sense with Mitt Romney that, you know, if he thought it was good for him to say the sky was green and the grass was blue to win an election he'd say it."
Ryan Williams, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said Mr. Plouffe was trying to create a distraction.
"President Obama can't run on his abysmal economic record and he is desperate to distract from the historic loss of middle class jobs that has occurred on his watch," he said. "Americans won't be fooled by false and negative attacks - they know that President Obama has failed, and they are eager to replace him with a leader like Mitt Romney who can turn around our struggling economy."
Mr. Plouffe said that Herman Cain, the former pizza chain executive, "seems to have tapped into something" in the Republican electorate, while 75 percent or 80 percent of Republican voters seem to be looking for someone other than Mr. Romney to nominate.
He declined to predict whom the president was likely to face next November.
"I don't think we have any idea," Mr. Plouffe said. "The World Series just ended Friday night, but to use a baseball term, we may be in the first inning of this. So this is going to have a lot of twists and turns."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (66%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); LAYOFFS (64%) Obama, Barack; Plouffe, David; Romney, Mitt; Abortion; Presidential Election of 2012; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); TED KENNEDY (57%); HERMAN CAIN (54%) Obama, Barack; Plouffe, David; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1391 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: A New Ad Race, but the Vehicles Are Retreads

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: The quadrennial series of presidential campaign ads that is beginning to appear for the 2012 race will largely feature stock characters, like the Humble Statesman and the "Flip-Flopping Weasel." 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON-In Mitt Romney's telling, Gov.Rick Perry made Texas a wasteland. Under the words "Unemployment Has Doubled," a tumbleweed rolls across a barren highway.
For veterans of presidential politics, that campaign video evokes memories of an attack ad against Gov.Bill Clinton of Arkansas in 1992. "I called it 'The Night of the Living Dead,' " recalled Sig Rogich, the Republican consultant who depicted Mr. Clinton's tenure with a buzzard on a craggy tree.
Never mind that the unemployment rate in Texas is below the national average - or that Mr. Clinton, as it turned out, presided over an economic boom. Cartoonish imagery, repeated every four years, is a staple of the political advertising docudrama.
The 2012 season of "Race for the White House" is now opening on American video screens. Even as it appears on new devices like tablets and cellphones, the quadrennial series largely features stock characters.
Heroes include Humble Statesman, Family Man and Fighter; villains include Stumblebum, Shifty-Eyed Schemer and Flip-Flopping Weasel. Same actors, different roles depending on which campaign makes the ad. The familiar 30-second plotlines endure from one election to the next.
"The winning narrative gets rewritten a million times," said Mike Murphy, a Republican consultant. "Love of the easy cliche is alive and well in the political advertising business." 
The 'Flip-Flop'
The next election year promises to be exceptionally negative; the anxiety and anger of voters will make sure of that. And the templates are already sitting on ad makers' shelves.
"One of the classics you're going to see a whole lot is the Evil Limo," said Alex Castellanos, a Republican ad maker.
Ad makers use limousine shots to portray rivals as privileged louts, perhaps with black-and-white images of the Capitol for a touch of film noir. Three decades ago, Republicans placed a look-alike actor in a limo to depict Speaker Tip O'Neill as out of touch.
But Evil Limos also work against rich business executives, especially when juxtaposed with images of locked factory gates and downtrodden workers. Such attacks against Mr. Romney's financial industry career will be the flip side of his positive ads claiming job-creating know-how.
Mr. Romney's shifting on some issues also makes him vulnerable to the Flip-Flop ad genre. "Like the Kerry wind-surfing ad," said Mark McKinnon, a media consultant, referring to a spot for President George W. Bush that showed Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, clad in a swimsuit, tacking with the Atlantic breeze.
One famous Flip-Flop spot, by the campaign of Gov.Michael S. Dukakis against Representative Richard A. Gephardt in 1988, used a somersaulting gymnast. A cinema verite version could simply splice quotes from Mr. Romney's 1994 Senate race debate against Edward M. Kennedy with his recent, more conservative rhetoric.
"Then you cut to black and do something snarky at the end - like, 'Oh really, Mitt?' " said Kim Alfano, a Republican consultant. She recommends a female narrator because women in attack ads can be "so much meaner."
Mr. Perry will use statistics calling attention to job creation in Texas. Such spots work best by cutting swiftly among images of factories, blue-collar workers and the candidate, Ms. Alfano said, with upbeat music to lend a high-energy feel.
But Good Governor ads invariably provoke Bad Governor rejoinders.
Vice President George Bush showed dead fish in a polluted Boston Harbor to debunk Mr. Dukakis's boasts about the "Massachusetts Miracle." When President Gerald R. Ford was facing former Gov.Jimmy Carter of Georgia in 1976, his campaign sent a camera crew to Atlanta to collect nasty comments from anti-Carter voters on Peachtree Street.
Blowing Smoke
There remains some market for innovation. Herman Cain, a former Godfather's Pizza executive who is now atop some national polls, tested it recently with an unusual spot featuring his campaign manager smoking a cigarette.
But if Mr. Cain sustains his support, history suggests that his more experienced rivals will pounce. In 1996, when the eventual Republican nominee, Bob Dole, faced the never-elected magazine publisher Steve Forbes, his ads warned voters: "Untested Leadership. Risky Ideas."
"You show an empty chair in the Oval Office with a voice-over asking viewers to imagine him sitting there," Mr. McKinnon suggested. That's where the boldness of Mr. Cain's 9-9-9 taxplan and Mr. Perry's new 20 percent flat tax, for that matter, can be turned against them.
"That Risky Scheme thing is tailor-made for Romney going after Cain and Perry," said Bill Carrick, a Democratic ad maker. Another option: a "Where's the Pizza?" version of the "Where's the Beef?" line that Walter F. Mondale used against Gary Hartin the 1984 Democratic primaries.
Some ads remain so well-matched to a particular candidate and circumstance that they stand alone. Mr. Rogich points to the 1984 "Morning in America" spots for President Ronald Reagan, which capitalized on his personal popularity and the nation's resurgent optimism.
"That campaign is the only one that's never been copied," he said. Nor can it be in 2012.
The way voters feel today, Mr. Rogich observed, "It's Evening in America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); DRAMA FILMS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); FILM GENRES (67%); ATHLETES (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Bush, George W; Cain, Herman; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RICK PERRY (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HERMAN CAIN (70%) Bush, George W; Cain, Herman; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011



1392 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Most City Parks Earn Solid Marks, With Some Lagging

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
On their new report cards, New York City's large parks turn out to be solid performers, earning a respectable B average. The grades, to be given out on Monday in a new study from New Yorkers for Parks, an independent advocacy group, nevertheless show some room for improvement, including the maintenance of drinking fountains and lawns.
The group, in its first assessment of large park properties, looked at 45 parks, from 20 to 500 acres, in all five boroughs. Within each borough, however, there were sometimes jarring disparities in park quality. New Yorkers for Parks said that the biggest factor in those discrepancies was not differing income levels around the parks or a conservancy group with fund-raising muscle, but the ability to turn out volunteers to care for a park.
In Harlem, for instance, Morningside Park, whose 30 acres stretch from West 110th to 123rd Streets, scored an 89, earning praise in particular for its well-maintained pathways, playgrounds and courts. Not far away, the 20-acre Marcus Garvey Park, at Madison Avenue and 120th Street, received a 69, with points deducted for broken benches and remote paths flecked with condoms and syringes. 
Morningside Park has a particularly strong ''friends'' group, with more than 100 industrious volunteers. Friends of Morningside Park, which celebrated its 30th anniversary last week, raised a modest $23,000 last year. But it organized more than a dozen events this year in which local residents turned out to plant bulbs and perform other chores.
New Yorkers for Parks said that if one thread ran through the most successful parks it was just such a volunteer network. ''It's really human hands and labor,'' said Alyson Beha, director of research, planning and policy for New Yorkers for Parks. ''What we can tell for the most part is that parks with active volunteer groups have overall better maintenance than ones without.''
City officials said the report reflected well on the park system, especially given cuts to the maintenance staff since 2008, when the economy faltered. Since then, the Department of Parks and Recreation, which hires many seasonal workers, has lost the equivalent of about 800 full-time staff members; about three-quarters were maintenance workers.
''If I had gotten this report card in school, I'd be very happy,'' said Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner. ''It echoes pretty much what we've been seeing. Over all, I think it reflects a positive story in the parks. It debunks the myth that parks are only nice in Manhattan and well-heeled neighborhoods, with the fact that you can find highly rated parks across the city.''
But the report cards did not assess what the group calls the ''megaparks,'' 14 parks across the city that are larger than 500 acres, including Central Park and Prospect Park. (New Yorkers for Parks said it did not have the personnel to do meaningful evaluations of such large properties.) Nor did it evaluate some smaller parks that have been magnets for private money, like the High Line and Bryant Park. Just last week, the High Line received a record-setting $20 million gift.
Indeed, those four parks have demonstrated such fund-raising prowess, because of their conservancies and ''friends'' groups, that they almost stand in a class apart. Located in some of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the city, they have pristine landscapes and jewel-like features that out-sparkle virtually all other parks in the city's system.
New Yorkers for Parks said it chose the 45 parks it studied because their size and topography posed unusual maintenance challenges for the city. For the past six years, the Department of Parks and Recreation's internal park inspection program has consistently found the ''cleanliness of large parks to be more challenged'' than that of small parks and playgrounds, the report said.
On average, each of the five boroughs performed well on the report card, ranging from an overall score of 81 in the Bronx to Staten Island's score of 93. Moreover, 80 percent of the parks scored either an A or B, with only one receiving a failing grade: the Coney Island Boat Basin. At that 36-acre park, which has many athletic fields, none of the drinking fountains worked. The zero in that category brought the park's score down to a 56.
The surveyors, who fanned out during the summer of 2010, analyzed a dozen categories in each of the parks: athletic fields, bathrooms, courts, drinking fountains, immediate environment, lawns, natural areas, pathways, playgrounds, sitting areas, trees and bodies of water. Of the park features, which were also given citywide scores, fountains and lawns proved the weakest, with a 64 and 69 average, respectively.
The report said that fountains were ''plagued by maintenance and structural challenges,'' adding that in many instances, they were unusable because of ''insufficient pressure, missing parts or structural damage.'' The group found many lawns to be bare, unmowed, discolored and infested with weeds. In addition, the report said, some lawns contained ''trees with low, broken or dying branches.''
Mr. Benepe said that the parks department might appoint a task force to study the problem of drinking fountains, but added that the report ''sees the drinking fountains in a more dire light than we do.'' As for lawns, he pointed out that with all the rain this summer and fall, they were healthier now than when New Yorkers for Parks assessed them.
The group, which was founded in 1908, plans to revisit the same 45 parks next summer, with a new report to be released in the fall.
The parks department conducts its own maintenance inspections. Eight full-time staff members perform 250 inspections every two weeks and generate 5,000 reports a year. Every park and playground is inspected at least once a year, with safety hazards given top priority.
Mr. Benepe challenged the score for Marcus Garvey Park, where the report card found that playgrounds were marred by ''jagged, broken'' fencing, worn safety surfacing and equipment and weed growth. It also found large depressions and litter on lawns, and a ''large quantity of condoms and syringes'' on lawns and pathways.
Mr. Benepe called the group's evaluation a ''snapshot in time.'' On a visit this week, such debris was found on the steep, stone stairways leading to a desolate plaza and fenced-off bell tower, what he called a ''tough spot for decades.'' He highlighted instead the newly renovated Richard Rodgers amphitheater that opened in June.
''It's a great park,'' Mr. Benepe said, ''and in my view, it's definitely not a D.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Yorkers for Parks gave Marcus Garvey Park in Manhattan a score of 69, a rating that the parks commissioner challenged.
 A park staff worker pulls weeds from a section of Morningside Park, which earned a high score. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOLUNTEERS (88%); FUNDRAISING (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); CITIES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); SEASONAL WORKERS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1393 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: 'Occupy' Protest at St. Paul's Cathedral in London Divides Church

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Ravi Somaiya contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LONDON -- In a city where demonstrations of every kind are part of the daily syncopation, there has rarely been any with quite the same potential for amplifying the protesters' cause as the one that has settled in recently on the historic forecourt of St. Paul's Cathedral, setting off a painful crisis of conscience for the Church of England .
For the last 15 days, St. Paul's has been the backdrop for London's counterpart to the Occupy Wall Street tent city in Zuccotti Square in New York. Here, the protest has taken on aspects of a medieval carnival, a jumbled tent city with buskers and rappers and clothing stalls and a panoply of banners and a makeshift cafeteria. There have been pet dogs, and a man dressed as Jesus declaiming against the usurers in the temple.
Where Princess Diana appeared to pealing bells after her marriage to Prince Charles, where a nation grateful for deliverance in war watched the caissons arrive for the funerals of Lord Nelson and Winston Churchill, beneath Christopher Wren's great dome that stood defiant amid the smoke and fire of the Luftwaffe's blitz, Britain's anticapitalist battalions have pitched camp. 
Scores of similar encampments have sprung up in cities around the world, echoing the continuing protest in Wall Street's heart against the bankers and corporate barons and complicit politicians the protesters hold responsible for global financial distress.
But few, if any, of the protests outside New York have had the resonance the St. Paul's campers have achieved in Britain by choosing as their venue what many regard as the country's most iconic religious landmark. With bishops squaring off against bishops, priests against priests, and the church hierarchy in disarray over whether to take steps to force the dismantling of the camp -- not to mention Prime Minister David Cameron's parachuting into the debate from 10,000 miles away in Australia, where he has attending a Commonwealth summit meeting -- the St. Paul's story has been front-page news and a feast for the television newscasts.
Campers have used the space at St. Paul's as a modern Colosseum for dramatizing and projecting their case, or cases, since the issues earnestly debated among the tents run the gamut, from the causes of the banking crisis to the plight of the world's homeless and hungry, anarchist dogmas, the virtues of meditation, and much besides. Like performers who have played less rewarding venues without ever hitting the big time, the protesters in the scores of tents have surprised themselves, as well as much of the rest of Britain, with the range of their impact.
The experience has been all the more striking for the fact that St. Paul's was the protesters' second choice. Their original plan was to establish the camp in Paternoster Square, a short walk from St. Paul's, and an iconic location in its own right since it was established in an area obliterated by German bombing in 1940. One of the steel-and-glass towers overlooking the square is the London Stock Exchange, in the heart of the ''square mile'' of the City of London, which vies with New York for the title of the world's leading financial center.
Along with the church authorities, the camp has a powerful adversary in the City of London Corporation, the local government in the financial district. It views the St. Paul's protest, and a smaller satellite camp nearby for the overflow from St. Paul's, as an unhelpful, unsightly presence at a time when London, as a financial center, is struggling. A slumping market, the loss of thousands of jobs and unease over tightening banking oversight planned by the Cameron government have banished the vaunted confidence of the City of London's boosters, who before the banking crisis exploded in 2008 boasted that London had outdistanced Wall Street as a favored venue for investors.
Last week, the corporation went to court to seek an order dismantling the St. Paul's camp as a breach of the historic right of unimpeded access to the country's ''highways.'' Though the St. Paul's encampment is concentrated on the cathedral forecourt, a pedestrian area in normal times, a corporation executive, Michael Wellbank, overlooked the distinction. ''Protest is an essential right in democracy, but a campaign on the highway is not,'' he told reporters. ''Encampment on a busy thoroughfare clearly impacts the rights of others.''
On Friday, with protest leaders saying they planned to remain indefinitely, St. Paul's officials chose to join in the lawsuit, precipitating an acrimonious debate within the Church of England, and among the protesters. The cathedral had already closed its doors, suspending tourist visits and religious services, a step not taken since World War II. Although it was partially reopened on Saturday, cathedral officials stuck to their demand for an end to the camp. Citing health and safety rules, they said the cathedral could not operate with protesters preparing meals over campsite gas cookers on the approaches, and blocking accessways that would be needed for an emergency evacuation.
One of the cathedral's top officials, Canon Giles Fraser, had already resigned, saying he could not accept a forcible dismantling of the camp if the lawsuit is upheld. He was followed by a second cleric at the cathedral. Quickly, a wide rift opened within the church, with some, like Mr. Fraser, saying that the church's mission to seek social justice should make it the protesters' natural ally, and others saying the overriding concern had to be clearing the camp so St. Paul's, which draws thousands of worshipers every week, could continue to operate.
The rift has added to deep divisions in recent years within the church and among its priests and bishops over the role of women, gays and lesbians. But the split over the St. Paul's protest threatens to be more rancorous because it goes to the core of a theological dilemma the church has faced for centuries: whether, and when, as the country's ''established'' church, with the monarch as its head, it should follow the social radicalism that Jesus demonstrated when he overturned the money lenders' tables in the temple, or act, in effect, as a handmaiden of the prevailing social and political order.
One former archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, has sided strongly with Mr. Fraser. But Prime Minister Cameron told the BBC from Australia, ''I've got a feeling that if you or I decided to pitch a tent in the middle of Oxford Street, then we would be moved on pretty quickly,'' and London's maverick mayor, Boris Johnson, concurred. ''An excellent point has been made'' by the protesters, he said, ''but having made their point, it's time for them to move on.''
On Sunday, in what amounted to a peace mission to the protesters, the bishop of London, the Rev. Richard Chartres, spoke to them from a lectern in the forecourt, offering a mixed message that reflected the church's attempt to straddle its divide. He said he was ''concerned that this should not lead to violence,'' and repeated an offer, previously rejected by the campers, to hold a debate on their cause in the cathedral, but only after the tents have been removed. Then he signaled the depth of his own misgivings. ''You have a notice saying, 'What would Jesus do?' '' he said. ''That is a question for me as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The protest at St. Paul's Cathedral in central London has caused a dilemma for the Church of England and for politicians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DOGS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); BANK FAILURES (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (61%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (56%); PRINCESS DIANA (52%); DAVID CAMERON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1394 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Role of Small Businesses

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It's unfortunate that Jared Bernstein, in his Oct. 24 Op-Ed article, ''Small Isn't Always Beautiful,'' played down small businesses' economic importance while arguing that politicians and advocates are using small businesses as pawns in their political machinations. 
Small businesses employ half of all private-sector employees and pay 44 percent of the total American private payroll, according to the Small Business Administration. What's more, they've generated 65 percent of net new jobs over the past 17 years.
Those numbers are nothing to scoff at. Mr. Bernstein is right that politicians and lobbying groups need to stop waving the small business flag for purely political reasons, but he doesn't need to diminish small businesses' significant role in our economy to do so. In fact, we should be harnessing their potential as job generators.
Small businesses have the ability to pull us out of the economic doldrums, as they traditionally do in times of financial strife, but they need our full support if they are to succeed.
JOHN ARENSMEYER Founder and Chief Executive Small Business Majority Sausalito, Calif., Oct. 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1395 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Tested Again and Again, Cain Takes Comfort in His Rise in the Polls

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
HOMEWOOD, Ala. -- For Herman Cain, these have been the sweet days.
His surge in the polls, supposed to last a week, is a month old and showing no signs of deflating. Although his tax plan was laid low in debates, his standing has kept climbing.
But highlighting the whipsaw fortunes that have tested the campaign this year, Politico reported Sunday night that two women who worked with Mr. Cain when he ran the National Restaurant Association, a lobbying group, in the 1990s had complained of inappropriate sexual behavior on his part and reached financial settlements before leaving the organization. A spokesman for Mr. Cain said the accusations were a baseless attack by ''inside the Beltway'' news media.
On his campaign bus on Saturday, Mr. Cain grinned as he dug into a stack of spareribs in a foam takeout container. ''I'm the unconventional candidate,'' he said. ''I have the unconventional message: Bold, solutions-oriented.''
He asked an aide for a napkin. ''And bring me those baked sweet potatoes back,'' he said. 
''My point is,'' he continued, ''maybe what we're doing is working.'' He let out a hearty laugh.
Since he won a Florida straw poll on Sept. 24, his crowds have been standing room only, which Mr. Cain attributes to voters, if not pundits, overcoming hesitations about his ability to gain the nomination. ''That is no doubt in peoples' minds now, so they're unleashing their desire to want to support me,'' he said.
Donations have been flowing in, his top aide said recently, at the rate of $1 million a week, refilling the well that Mr. Cain primed with $685,000 of his own money.
And yet his candidacy still has an ad-libbed quality. His tax plan, picked apart by rivals and independent analysts, would wallop the middle class and benefit the rich. He has retracted many shoot-from-the-hip statements, suggesting a lack of focus (and maybe a lack of sleep). His inexperience -- not to mention an unintentionally hilarious Web video of a cigarette-puffing senior aide -- has raised questions about whether even he takes his campaign all that seriously.
Whether his grass-roots popularity can withstand the reports of inappropriate behavior while he was chief executive of the restaurant trade group remains to be seen.
Sunday's Politico report alleges that at least two female employees of the group complained to colleagues and to senior officials there about Mr. Cain. It said it had determined the women's identities but declined to name them out of ''privacy concerns.''
In response, J. D. Gordon, Mr. Cain's campaign spokesman, e-mailed a statement to The New York Times calling the allegations unproved rumors. ''Since Washington establishment critics haven't had much luck in attacking Mr. Cain's ideas to fix a bad economy and create jobs,'' the statement read, ''they are trying to attack him in any way they can.''
Asked Saturday if he was aware that many people consider his candidacy to be a punch line, Mr. Cain replied: ''I understand that. I'm not offended.''
''Why do you think we're smiling?'' he added. ''Because the joke is going to be on them.''
His leased bus had mirrored ceilings, as if it had been used last by a heavy metal band.
Despite the decor, it is clearly Mr. Cain's realm. Before he and his aides began eating, he asked for silence and said grace.
He wore a sleeveless white cashmere sweater over an open-collar shirt, revealing a thin gold neck chain -- a style touch impossible to imagine on any of his male rivals. On the counter he had placed the black felt fedora by which he is rapidly becoming identifiable. ''I love this hat,'' he said. ''I bought it 20 years ago. A cowboy hat is too broad. This has a businessman's look.''
Mr. Cain insisted that his two-day visit to eight events in Alabama, when all the other Republican candidates were camped out in New Hampshire or Iowa, was not an amateur's mistake but another sign of unconventional boldness.
''Think about it -- I don't think this thing is going to be over with by March,'' when Alabama holds its primary, he said. ''I wanted to establish a foothold in states like Arkansas, Alabama and Tennessee.'' He said he planned to spend December in the early-voting states.
As he hopscotched through northern Alabama, his speeches were light on substance and heavy on bromides, which he turned into applause lines through the magic of his delivery. When he speaks to a crowd, there is a contact high between the candidate and his supporters, and it is unclear who is more pleased to be in the other's presence.
Strategists in other campaigns have been known to mock Mr. Cain's stump speech, a combination of Leadership 101 and simple policy formulas not unlike the famous ''9-9-9'' tax plan. ''The Cain philosophy is peace through strength,'' he told a crowd in Tuscaloosa, Ala., linking his foreign policy to Ronald Reagan's. ''And clar-i-ty,'' he added, enunciating each syllable. ''We must clarify who our friends are, clarify who our enemies are, and stop giving money to our enemies.''
Voter after voter who came to hear him or to stand in a long line for an autograph or photograph -- as more than 100 did during a tailgating party at Samford University here in Homewood on Saturday -- explained his appeal by citing what ought to have been a disqualification: his utter lack of political experience. They praised his resume in business and his knack for boiling down issues into graspable solutions.
''He's not an established politician; he's one of the people who ran a business,'' said John Parker, the owner of a street-cleaning business in Birmingham.
Offering the top line of his resume, Mr. Cain said: ''I haven't just made pizzas all my life. I've solved problems all my life.''
He also takes humor to places where other office seekers would fear to tread. When a woman with an unusually high-pitched voice approached, he asked, ''Is that your real voice?'' He dropped his own basso profundo even lower and said, ''Hi, I'm Herman Cain.'' Both broke into laughter.
Back on his bus, unwinding, Mr. Cain recalled, ''She cracked me up with that little squeaky voice.'' He added, ''I think she could perceive I wasn't making fun of her.''
His own voice, Mr. Cain recognizes, is one of his greatest political assets, which he developed partly as a radio host in Atlanta. He had spent the day fighting hoarseness. ''I tried not to do any yelling today,'' he joked to aides.
''What events do we have left today?'' he asked Nathan Naidu, his personal assistant.
''You have one more. Then we go home.''
''Man, that is music to my ears.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herman Cain, whose leased campaign bus came equipped with mirrored ceilings, prepared for a stop at Samford University in Alabama on Saturday. He is not solely focused on the early-voting states. ''I don't think this thing is going to be over with by March,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LOBBYING (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INTERNET VIDEO (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAMFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1396 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: In East Harlem, 'Keep Out' Signs Apply to Renters

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
East Harlem has been undergoing a resurgence for two decades, yet the neighborhood is still pockmarked with four- or five-story walk-ups where the ground-floor stores are bustling and the apartments above are devoid of life. Their windows are boarded up, blocked up or just drearily empty, torn curtains testifying to no one's having lived there for years.
Although the vacancy rate in Manhattan hovers at 1 percent, at least some of the landlords of these sealed-up buildings are deliberately keeping their buildings mostly vacant, content to earn income from first-floor commercial tenants rather than deal with the trouble of residents.
In some cases, city housing officials say, landlords are waiting for a revived economy to raise rents so that it makes financial sense to repair plumbing and electrical wiring. In other cases, landlords are ''warehousing'' apartments for the moment that a deep-pocketed developer comes along, as has happened in the blocks just north of 96th Street, East Harlem's southern boundary. In still other cases, it is simply mystifying that apartments would be left vacant for decades, particularly since East Harlem has been a magnet for Mexican and other Latino immigrants, as well as young strivers looking for cheap space. 
At Dr. Mark's Optical Center, on the corner of 108th Street and Third Avenue, the store's manager said the apartments above the shop, perhaps a dozen in total, had been empty for 30 years. Merchants in other buildings said the apartments above their stores had been empty for 20 years. ''Considering the fact that we went through a housing boom and those buildings still remained vacant, I don't know what is their intent,'' said Melissa Mark-Viverito, the city councilwoman who represents the area, referring to building owners.
Warren A. James, a local architect, has been studying East Harlem's vacant buildings and has counted 40 of them near his office on 112th Street, many owned for decades by the same family. He points out that these buildings are close to the northern end of Central Park, the No. 6 subway line and the Upper East Side, and could draw reasonable rents. Some two-bedrooms in the area already command more than $3,000 a month.
Ms. Mark-Viverito and other housing advocates, having christened these vacant buildings ''haunted houses,'' are planning a march on Monday to spotlight the blight and desolation such buildings foster. They want to press officials to find ways of encouraging landlords to offer more low- and moderate-income housing.
The phenomenon has been borne out by several studies. In 2007, the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, released a survey of Manhattan's buildings that found 1,723 were significantly vacant, with three-fourths north of 96th Street. A 1998 survey by Civitas, a nonprofit group concerned with development on the East Side, found that one of four low-rise residential buildings on avenues or major cross streets in East Harlem had open stores but sealed-up residential floors, leaving many avenues forlorn at night.
''It deprives the blocks of a certain vitality, and it doesn't take advantage of the opportunities of converting those structures to residential use,'' said Hunter Armstrong, Civitas's executive director.
Civitas attributed the emptiness partly to the allure between the 1940s and 1970s of public housing projects, which emptied many tenements and left landlords with weathered properties and repairs too expensive for the low rents the apartments might yield.
In many cases, the buildings have been draped with scaffolding to prevent crumbling facades from hurting passers-by. Store owners in some buildings said the scaffolding had been up for years, keeping customers away.
City officials have met with some landlords, like the real estate firm known as Ross & Ross that owns many empty buildings under several corporate names. RuthAnne Visnauskas, the deputy commissioner for development at the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, urged members of the Ross family to consider loan programs offering incentives for rehabilitation. Family members said they would ''take it under consideration and come back to us,'' but never did, Ms. Visnauskas said. Simon Rosenfeld, president of one of the Ross companies, declined to comment when reached by telephone.
Mr. James, the architect, took a reporter on a walk between 106th and 116th Streets and between Lexington and Third Avenues and pointed out 20 boarded-up residential buildings with active storefronts. At 152 East 110th Street, a four-story building was abandoned except for a Dolce Vita pizzeria. A five-story corner building at 1773 Lexington Avenue had a busy grocery and a shuttered restaurant, but the apartments above had long been vacant. The two buildings to the south had Chinese and Mexican restaurants and a nail salon, but the apartments above were also empty.
''My best guess is they don't want the hassle of renting to tenants,'' he said, pointing out that tenants protected by rent-stabilization laws could be difficult to evict.
At the corner of 106th Street and Third Avenue, the boarded-up windows and the remainder of the five-story building have been sleekly painted a rich taupe, allowing the Chase Bank branch below to escape looking as if it were in a forsaken slum. Still, no one lives in the apartments.
At 1987 Third Avenue, near 109th Street, the owner of a 99-cent store, Gohar Ali Khan, said the apartments above him had been vacant all 13 years he had been there. ''If they make it a rent building or sell it for millions of dollars, which one you think is better?'' he said wryly.
Mr. James pointed out the contrast between the boarded-up five-story building at 2037 Third Avenue and a building next door that had been power-washed and given new windows, showing that an improved building could be fully occupied.
Nearby, a Duane Reade was the only flourishing feature in a desolate row of four boarded-up apartment houses. At 1697 Lexington Avenue, three stories of vacant apartments were hidden behind a screen of scaffolding, which Mr. James said had been there since he moved to 112th Street 12 years ago. That building is owned by Lenmort Realty Corporation, a Ross & Ross company, according to city finance records. Across the street, brownstones have sold for more than $2 million.
''I have people I know that have made offers to buy them, but they won't entertain any offers,'' Mr. James said of the Ross family.
The beauty salon on the building's ground floor closed down six months ago, but a sign announces that the space is for rent. There is no such sign for the apartments above.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A building at the corner of 106th Street and Third Avenue, painted taupe to allow a Chase Bank branch to flourish beneath four empty floors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1397 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Cable Is Holding Web TV at Bay, Earnings Show

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
This time a year ago, the television industry was rife with worry about so-called cord-cutting -- people dropping cable subscriptions in favor of watching TV over the Internet.
But for the most part, the cords remain intact, the latest crop of earnings reports indicate. Considering the fragile economy, cable and satellite subscriptions seem to be faring better than the industry had feared and its Internet rivals had hoped.
Even as Internet video viewing increases, the vast majority of American households are still paying for television subscriptions and watching most video that way. Those who are canceling are doing so, it seems, because of poverty, not improved technology. 
''Overwhelmingly, the losses are coming at the low end of the income spectrum,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein. Most such cord-cutters do not have a broadband Internet connection, he said.
Although cord-cutting losses adversely affect distributors, they have to date been largely offset by increases in broadband subscriptions and business services. Business clients are the single biggest area of growth for Comcast and Time Warner Cable, the country's top two cable distributors. That is one of the reasons why analysts say the companies are stable despite pressure on the television subscription front.
Speaking to investors last week, Glenn A. Britt, the chief executive of Time Warner Cable, called residential broadband and business services ''our two most promising areas.''
The ripple effects of hard times for American households are evident in the revenue and subscriber figures recently shared by Mr. Britt and others. Some cable subscribers are cutting back on premium channels like HBO or Showtime and are dropping the digital video recorders and landline telephones that they signed up for a few years ago.
Meanwhile, because fewer people are moving into new homes or starting families, there are fewer new households for distributors to sign up for TV and broadband service.
When it reported earnings on Friday, Cablevision, which mostly serves subscribers in the New York metropolitan area, said it believed that the number of occupied homes in its service area had declined in the last 12 months, putting additional pressure on the company.
Vijay Jayant, a senior managing director for the ISI Group, said he anticipated an overall dip in TV subscribers for the quarter, just as in the second quarter, when the top publicly traded distributors lost about 450,000 subscribers in total. (Each year the second quarter is affected by seasonal factors like the departure of college students; in the 2010 period, distributors lost 200,000 subscribers.)
But Mr. Jayant and other analysts remain bullish. Right now, he said, ''it's a housing issue, more than anything else.''
The lack of new housing, of course, is tied to the broader economy. When Time Warner Cable, which has been losing TV subscribers to competitors for years, reported a net loss of 128,000 in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, it noted that fully half were analog subscribers, who generally pay less and get fewer channels than digital subscribers. Analog subscribers represent about 25 percent of Time Warner Cable's subscriber base.
''These are families that are struggling to make ends meet,'' Mr. Moffett surmised.
Over all, it is striking how steady the levels of subscriptions have been. About 100 million households pay for TV subscriptions. ''When you think about it, nearly everyone watches TV, and they watch a lot of it,'' Mr. Britt said on Thursday.
The Cablevision chief operating officer, Tom Rutledge, struck a similarly optimistic note a day later. ''Over the long term,'' he said, ''I think the business has a lot of growth to it.''
In some areas, Time Warner Cable has been marketing what it calls ''TV Essentials,'' a less expensive monthly package that lacks ESPN and other channels. Other distributors have shown interest in less costly tiers of service, too.
Mr. Britt told investors last week that although ''TV Essentials'' generated ''lots of interest, the vast majority of customers who call about the offering end up taking a more robust video package.''
Cable companies have seen TV subscriptions shrink relatively slowly in recent years as customers price-shop and switch to two types of competitors -- satellite distributors like DirecTV and Dish Network, and telecommunications competitors like Verizon and AT&T.
Investors are watching those competitors for signs of overall weakness in the industry. There was a bit of it last month, when FiOS from Verizon and U-Verse from AT&T each showed smaller TV subscriber gains in the third quarter than in prior quarters.
But Verizon said it expected growth to pick up in the fourth quarter. DirecTV and Dish will report earnings in early November, as will Comcast and other cable heavyweights.
Mr. Jayant said one reason for industry optimism was the recent stumble by Netflix, which angered subscribers over the summer by raising prices for its combination streaming and DVD-by-mail service.
''When Netflix loses 800,000 subscribers,'' Mr. Jayant said, ''the fear of cord-cutting goes away a little.''
Netflix and services like it are increasingly being positioned as supplements, not replacements, for traditional TV subscriptions as the major studios, networks and distributors work to preserve their existing business models.
In fact, the biggest fight now is not between Netflix and traditional distributors, but between DirecTV and News Corporation.
In a feud over fees, DirecTV said some News Corporation cable channels could be blacked out on Tuesday because it refused to pay -- and pass along to subscribers -- a 40 percent increase in the price of a bundle of channels including FX, Speed, Fuel TV, Fox Soccer and 19 regional sports networks. News Corporation accused DirecTV of negotiating in bad faith, and the spat spilled into public view last week.
''It's unfair for them to demand a 40 percent increase for the same networks you enjoy today,'' DirecTV's chief executive, Michael White, said in a video message to customers this weekend.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about trends in cable and satellite subscriptions misstated, in some copies, the job title for Tom Rutledge of Cablevision, who commented on the issue. He is the company's chief operating officer, not its chief executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Verizon's FiOS service on an Apple iPad. Over all, Verizon FiOS gained fewer TV subscribers in the third quarter than in previous quarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADBAND (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (55%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011



1398 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: For Home Entertainment Releases, a Rare Bright Spot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Hollywood's troubled home entertainment business is moving in an unaccustomed direction: Up.
On Monday, the Digital Entertainment Group, which monitors consumer spending for home entertainment in the United States, is expected to report a 5 percent increase in industrywide revenue for the third quarter, to roughly $3.9 billion from about $3.7 billion a year earlier. It is the first quarterly uptick since the beginning of 2008.
In part, the increase reflects a surge in Blu-ray sales, which are expected to reach $1.23 billion for the first three quarters, up from about $1 billion for the same period a year earlier. That puts them on a par with video store rentals, which have been falling, and on-demand revenue, which has grown more slowly. 
The overall gain is modest, but welcome in a business in which piracy, economic weakness and digital competition have steadily eroded what was once Hollywood's core source of income -- the rental and sale of DVDs.
''It's extremely encouraging,'' said Ronald J. Sanders, the president of Warner Home Video. ''I would say things have stabilized.''
The numbers reflect an effort to nudge the consumer away from cheap rentals toward high-yield transactions like Blu-ray sales --and may also signal a boost from a slowly improving economy. ''I get a guarded sense of optimism from just about every retailer I speak to,'' said David Bishop, the Sony Pictures Home Entertainment president.
By last year, spending on movies and television programs via discs, video-on-demand and other forms of delivery had fallen to $18.8 billion, down 13.8 percent from its 2004 peak of $21.8 billion. Adjusted for inflation, the drop was almost 26 percent.
Box-office ticket sales in America rose about 12 percent in the same period, to $10.6 billion from $9.45 billion. But half of that is kept by theater owners, and it was not enough to lift the gloom on the home viewing side.
But the third quarter this year was helped by the home release of strong titles like ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon,'' ''Thor,'' and ''X-Men: First Class.'' And comparisons were easier than in the first half, when new pictures were measured against the colossal video sales for ''Avatar,'' which was released to home markets in April 2010.
Though ''Avatar'' skewed the basis for comparisons, it also laid the groundwork for the current spurt, because it drew consumers toward the Blu-ray format, with Blu-ray sales of the movie reaching 11 million units globally. ''It took Blu-ray to another level,'' said Mike Dunn, Fox's home entertainment president.
The number of homes with Blu-ray players rose 52 percent from a year ago, to 33.5 million in the United States. That rise helped sales for ''Star Wars: The Complete Saga,'' another strong entry in the last quarter.
Blu-ray is important to Hollywood, because each sale yields far more revenue than does a low-cost rental from a kiosk or from Netflix. In a sign that consumers are migrating upstream, the sale of Blu-ray discs is expected to top $423 million for the third quarter, surpassing the total revenue from kiosk rentals, at about $414 million. A year ago, that situation was reversed, with kiosks hauling in substantially more than Blu-ray.
Subscription rentals of physical discs -- the Netflix mailer model -- rose about 5 percent in the quarter, according to preliminary numbers, to about $607 million from $579 million a year earlier. Meanwhile, an increase in subscription streaming -- again, the Netflix model -- as well as electronic sales via iTunes and other sources, and video-on-demand, pushed overall digital delivery up more than 50 percent, to roughly $812 million.
That more than offset a 15 percent decline in regular DVD sales, to about $1.3 billion from $1.55 billion.
A pocket of strength, noted Mr. Sanders of Warner, was video-on-demand, which took in $420 million for the quarter, jumping ahead of video stores.
Studios have been timing the availability of films to nudge viewers toward favored formats. Warner, for instance, has been withholding pictures from kiosk rentals and Netflix until 28 days after they are available in video stores, and recently tried to keep films like ''Horrible Bosses'' and ''The Green Lantern'' from being available as rentals even in video stores until they had been on sale for a month. (Blockbuster bypassed Warner and buying rental stock on the open market).
In another attempt to nudge consumers toward sales instead of rentals, some studios offer ''UltraViolet,'' a technology that lets purchasers keep a film in a digital locker, for use on many devices. The hope is that consumers will build collections.
For the year so far, overall spending on home entertainment is still down about 2 percent, from $12.5 billion to about $12.3 billion for the first three quarters.
Mr. Sanders said he doubted the recent upturn would be enough to deliver what the industry hasn't had since 2004 -- a year of growth. ''I think we're going to be pretty close to where we are right now,'' he said.
But Mr. Dunn is not so sure. With Warner's ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2'' and Fox's ''Rise of the Planet of the Apes'' on the way, he is optimistic.
''A week in December is worth a month,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Consumer spending on discs and on-demand releases like ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon'' was up in the quarter year over year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011



1399 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Downtown, New Faces and a Contentious Revival

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Business has never been slower at Mina Bridal, which sells billowing taffeta ballroom dresses in colors like hot pink and electric blue for quinceaneras, the traditional 15th birthday celebration for Mexican girls.
Mina Madriles, who has run the downtown store for nearly three decades, said that a generation ago girls would have elaborate parties just as their parents had -- where a $1,000 dress was just a fraction of the expense. Now, she is giving away her dresses to some families who hire her to coordinate the party at their homes to save money.
''Nobody has any money anymore; there's nothing we can do,'' Ms. Madriles said.
Fourth Street -- also known as Calle Cuatro -- has long been the center of Latino business in Orange County, the place where Mexican immigrants could find nearly anything they might have looked for in their homelands. Along some stretches, it is impossible to hear anything but Spanish. The signs beckon customers to travel to Guadalajara or buy a pair of snakeskin cowboy boots for a ''super discuento,'' and the sidewalk vendors shout, ''Frutas, frutas,'' as they call attention to their freshly cut coconuts and mangos. 
But as the economy has soured, many of these stores have struggled to stay afloat. Some stores closed, others asked their landlords for a reduction in rent. At the same time, several property owners began pressing to create a group to improve downtown Santa Ana.
The owners, who were mostly white, were determined to make it more welcoming to English-speaking clients and bring in customers from more affluent parts of Orange County. What they really wanted to do, opponents said, was scrub away any suggestion that it is an immigrant hub, in a city that is 85 percent Latino. Fiesta Marketplace changed its name to ''East End,'' and the pink buildings that might evoke a Mexican plaza were repainted in muted hues. A few stores put up signs proclaiming, ''Stop ethnic cleansing.''
Supporters of the changes say any charge of racism ignores the fact that nearly all of the new businesses that have opened in the last two years are owned and operated by Latinos.
But what is largely left unsaid is that those shop owners and their customers are second- and third-generation Latinos, often far less interested in buying the ''goods from back home'' that attract more recent arrivals. This generation has more money to spend and is more like the well-heeled shoppers one would find throughout Southern California.
''I don't want to go someplace else to buy my suits,'' said Carlos Bustamante, a city councilman and Santa Ana native, the son of Mexican immigrants. ''There should be options for everybody here. The city is not changing ethnically; it's changing socioeconomically.''
On one corner of Fourth Street, a restaurant that served Mexican seafood for decades is being replaced with a high-end hamburger joint. Farther down, a longtime jeweler closed its doors this year. But a T-shirt and tattoo supply shop a block away says business has never been better, as high school students stop in daily.
''All of them are children of immigrants,'' said Danielle Barragan, the owner of the store. ''Their parents might not want to spend the money, but they will give it to their children, and they will come spend it here.''
But business has dried up for the dozens of quinceanera shop owners like Ms. Madriles. Her husband, Adolfo Lopez, was one of just two immigrants on the board of the Downtown Property Business Improvement District, the group promoting the area. But he was forced to resign when the couple did not pay the taxes required by the group.
Ms. Madriles echoes much of the anger of the older merchants downtown: ''What are we paying for? They don't do anything for us. They only care about nightlife and bringing in the wealthy, but those people aren't going to help my business.''
Much of the ire has been directed at Irving and Ryan Chase, a father-and-son team who own a large swath of buildings on the east end of Fourth Street that had long been called Fiesta Marketplace.
For decades, the area housed a carousel and small bandstand, which served as an impromptu gathering spot and occasionally as a more formal event space. When the Chases revamped the area, they removed the carousel and the kiosk, replacing it with a large tree and circle of benches. The project was partly financed by a $765,000 redevelopment grant from the city.
The Yost Theater, a former Spanish movie house that eventually became a home for a Pentecostal church, has now been transformed into a club and concert venue. Boosters hope that it will be one of the major draws for downtown, but detractors see it as a symbol of the immigrant community's losing what it once had.
''You have this area that was something public and you have an owner who can just take it away without any input from the community that really relies on it,'' said Carolina Sarmiento, a board member of El Centro Cultural de Mexico, a community group that was once housed in a downtown building but was recently kicked out, when owners said that the teenagers it attracted were damaging the building. That prompted a new round of criticism that the new projects were designed to get rid of Mexican culture in the area.
''They are only interested in making money for themselves, that's it,'' said Sam Romero, a longtime community activist who has run a Catholic book and gift shop for more than 40 years. Mr. Romero bristles at the suggestion he should modernize his store.
''I have one of the messiest stores in downtown, I don't care,'' he said. ''If I go buy expensive new furniture and merchandise, people aren't going to come here. And then I have a loan I can't repay and they've succeeded in kicking me out.''
Irving Chase said that he had gone to great lengths to help many of the struggling businesses, reducing their rent by as much as 75 percent.
''They're in business because I'm propping them up,'' he said. ''But I can't do that forever. Some of them are going to make it because they are going to change, and others are just going to keep doing things the way they've always done, and they will fail.''
His son said he had purposely kept vacancies in his buildings for more than a year, waiting for just the right tenants. When one barber shop owner approached him, he initially said he was not interested, but when he looked at the Web site for the shop, he realized that the ''cool retro vibe would be something totally different for the area,'' Ryan Chase said. Now, the American Barber Shop has a prime corner of Fourth Street, with its vintage barber chairs clearly visible from the street.
At the west end of Fourth Street sits Calacas, a gift shop that has become one of the most popular new places. The owners, Jackie and Rudy Cordova, sell everything from tiles to papier-mache skeletons.
For those who worry about gentrification, Rudy Cordova is seen as a born-and-bred native. For those eager to revitalize the district, he is seen as a brilliant entrepreneur. Mr. Cordova, a 38-year-old son of immigrants, thinks of himself as somewhere in between. His children are learning Spanish, he said, but his son is attending far fewer quinceaneras than he did at his age. He knows today's teenagers are unlikely to shop in the discount stores along Fourth Street that his parents once favored.
''But can you really wipe out the culture of Santa Ana?'' he asked. ''No matter what changes, this city is going to be Mexican for a long time.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map on Monday with an article about changes among businesses in downtown Santa Ana, Calif., misidentified the roadway running along the coast, south of the Orange County border. It is Interstate 5, not Highway 1. (While Highway 1 runs along much of the California coast, it ends at Interstate 5 near Dana Point, in southern Orange County.) A corrected map can be found at nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, from top left: A more affluent crowd is slowly being drawn to downtown Santa Ana, Calif., sometimes at the expense of older businesses like Mina Bridal. Renovations to the area have resulted in more benches but the loss of a carousel. Several new tenants, including the American Barber Shop, are thriving.
 Carolina Sarmiento, who is on the board of a community group, said she felt a sense of loss in some of the changes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Santa Ana has struggled in the economic downturn. (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FAMILY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); RACE & RACISM (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011



1400 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: In a Standardized Era, a Creative School Is Forced to Be More So

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
DURHAM, N.H. -- Every spring, Linda Rief, who is in her 25th year of teaching English at Oyster River Middle School, has eighth graders do a semesterlong ''genre'' project. They pick a subject area like mysteries, read masters like Agatha Christie, study the writer's craftsmanship (''Explain how the author foreshadows doom''), then draft their own.
The school's science students spend two weeks building an underwater robotic vessel. Social studies classes re-enact the Boston Massacre.
They have had time for these things at Oyster River. Students here do so well on state standardized tests -- about 85 percent of them rate proficient -- there has been little need for test preparation. Ms. Rief said she did 45 minutes -- a year. 
''The attitude was if we did good teaching and we were passionate and energetic, kids would learn and that would be enough,'' said Ms. Rief, who is 67.
No more. Last year, the No Child Left Behind law, which calls for 100 percent proficiency by 2014, caught up with Oyster River. Under the law's mandates for adequate yearly progress toward that goal, the school was one of 326 public schools in New Hampshire -- 69 percent of the total -- deemed to be failing.
This year, Oyster River got serious about test prep. In September the school announced a new motto, ''Fill the Box.'' Students have been told that their best chance for a high score on the state English test is to use all the blank space allotted for the essay. ''You have to write as much as you can,'' says Jay Richard, the principal. ''People have studied these things.''
The idea that the largest amount of writing is the best writing has just about killed Ms. Rief. ''Complete stupidity. We should be using our professional voices to speak up, but there is a fear in teachers and administrators I've never seen before,'' said Ms. Rief, who in 2000 was named middle school teacher of the year by the National Council of Teachers of English. ''A lot of faith we've had in ourselves as professionals has been turned aside by the tests.''
The intent of No Child Left Behind was to provide quality education for poor children, mainly in urban areas, but it has taken over everything. By next spring, 90 percent of New Hampshire schools are expected to be labeled as failing.
That may sound 100 percent ludicrous, but it has transformed the academic culture, even in prosperous towns that have long been immune, like Durham, where the University of New Hampshire is located.
The federal secretary of education, Arne Duncan, is a big fan of using state tests to evaluate practically everything -- children, schools, teachers, principals -- but he could see that matters had gone too far. This fall, he and President Obama invited states to apply for waivers from the most onerous provisions of the law if they adhered to the administration's education agenda.
Under the waivers, the 100 percent proficiency standard is to be eliminated, and most oversight would focus on the lowest-performing 15 percent of schools. In the law's present form, if one subgroup -- like special education students -- fails to make adequate progress, the whole school fails. Oyster River is a failing school because about a dozen of its 110 special education children did not score high enough. The waiver would give subgroup scores less weight.
New Hampshire officials said they did not know whether they would apply for a waiver, but even if they do, testing will continue to play a large role. Schools would be ranked by their scores (which have a way of turning up in newspapers), and teachers would be evaluated by those scores.
Mr. Richard was a special education teacher himself and has reorganized Oyster River's program in hopes of raising scores. The school used to mainstream the children all day, with a special education teacher working alongside the classroom teacher. Now the children will be pulled from class at times for more individualized instruction.
Will this be better or just different?
''I believe we can do better,'' Mr. Richard said. ''We have to. This is the law.''
Ms. Rief described Mr. Richard as ''the most positive administrator I've ever worked with.''
Even the new focus on test prep here pales compared with what happens in places like New York City and Florida, but the change has been felt in a school system where teachers have long been trusted and given autonomy.
''Suddenly at staff meetings we're talking about brain games,'' Ms. Rief said, ''we're talking about healthy brain food. The week before, we're not giving homework so everyone gets more sleep and rests their brains.''
There are posters to remind students of the 12 essential test prep words and posters to raise their Score: Strategies, Complete, Organize, Read, Energize. The test is the New England Common Assessment Program, and some fifth-grade boys are now calling themselves the Necap Ninjas.
While Mr. Richard has urged Ms. Rief to do more test preparation, he has not forced her. ''I bug her about this,'' he said. ''But I trust Linda to do what's best.''
Ms. Rief said she was sticking to the annual 45 minutes.
Mr. Richard says no one in town has asked him why his school is failing. ''Of course not,'' he said. ''People get it.''
They do want to know why, if Oyster River is failing, its eighth graders do so well when they get to high school. This year, Oyster River students averaged 1,670 on the three SAT tests, 111 points above the state average and 170 above the national average.
A failing school must form a committee to develop an improvement plan. Over the summer, Mr. Richard met with 10 of his teachers several times. Among the topics discussed were the little things that add up to a better score. ''We realized our students weren't looking at the titles on the reading passages,'' he said. ''The title tells you what the story is about; it's really important.''
They studied past tests. ''Several questions were related to the use of textbooks, and we're a textbook-free school,'' he said, explaining that his teachers' original lessons are superior to the packaged curriculums. ''No wonder they had so much trouble.''
While the school improvement committee was meeting, Ms. Rief and two other teachers attended workshops given by Navy engineers from the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. They learned how to build a robotic underwater vessel and will spend two weeks teaching students to build their own.
Ms. Rief worries that a new generation of teachers has been raised on standardized testing and thinks that is the norm. Ms. Rief fears that public schools where teachers are trusted to make learning fun are on the way out. Ms. Rief understands that packaged curriculums and standardized assessments offer schools an economy of scale that she and her kind cannot compete with.
E-mail: oneducation@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda Rief says teachers' faith in themselves ''has been turned aside'' by standardized testing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

 
