

401 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: A China Odyssey Sheds Light on a Murky Past, and Hints at the Future 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: CHEN DONG VILLAGE, China 

 BODY:
The Chens of Yongding County, all 20 generations of them, in an arc that continues after half a millennium, are chronicled in a local genealogy, a book of more than a thousand pages.
 Their fortunes have naturally risen and fallen with China's turbulent history, from poverty and plague to well-being, from peace to the Cultural Revolution. 
 That dynamic goes on to this day, when some members of the youngest generation scratch by in a crumbling three-story homestead, without heat or plumbing, while others have moved to thriving cities nearby, to make their mark in China's buoyant economy.
Page 1,057 of this chronicle speaks of a particular favorite son, Chen Nanqing, who left the village in the 1930's, eventually went to Taiwan and then made his way to New Jersey, where he became a professor.
He was my father. 
Genealogy may be an alluring pastime for many Americans, and sometimes a frustrating one as it reaches back to the country and language of emigration. But it can also provide bracing revelations about one's family. For me, a reporter on assignment in China, not only did a recent visit to this ancestral village bring to life a family heritage that was all but unknown, but it also unearthed a riddle about my father.
He left the village as a boy of 12, seldom to speak of it, never to return. Yet in his later years, he often sent large sums of money home, gave advice to relatives and wrote with pride of the accomplishments of his family in America. All this was news to me. 
"Your father always cared a lot about his hometown," said Lu Jisheng, a grandnephew of my grandmother, Lu Yajin, whose name was also unknown to me. "He's very famous. The most famous person in the village."

Poor but Ambitious
It was never easy to get in or out of Chen Dong, in the rugged and mountainous southwestern corner of Yongding County in Fujian Province, near the border with Guangdong Province. For most of the 20th century, there were no paved roads in the area, so walking to the nearest town could take days.
For generations, the Chens worked as farmers and lived in one of Yongding County's famous earthen buildings, called "tulou."
"It's like a hotel, because everyone lives in a room," said Chen Dawen, a cousin, who said that as many as 200 Chens once lived in our family's compound, called Dehuilou.
My father was born Chen Nanqing (a name I had never heard) in 1920, according to the local genealogy book, and not in 1925, as he later told everyone, even my mother.
His father, my grandfather, Chen Tieqin, was evidently an outstanding student; he went to school in Xiamen, about 140 miles away. His father, my great-grandfather, whose pen name was Chen Yintang, was a teacher and poet of some renown. 
Grandfather died of the plague in 1923, at 22. Grandmother was bedridden with illness, her mouth drooling, before dying in 1929, at about 26.
Other relatives raised my father, an only child. When he was about 12, my great-grandfather sent him to a school in Dabu, about 25 miles away in Guangdong Province, said Su Huadi, my grandmother's sister-in-law, who is 93 and my oldest relative in the village.
He never went home.
The next stage of his life is murkier. Relatives say he joined an elite unit of the Nationalist army to fight the Japanese, before enrolling at National Chengchi University. At some point, he changed his Chinese name to Chen Qing, adopted a new English one, King Chen, and left for Taiwan.
Eventually, he went to America, became a professor of political science and settled in Livingston, N.J. He married and had two sons.
As he progressed in the world, the family in Chen Dong struggled. During the 1930's, Dehuilou was burned down, perhaps by Communists who had heard that the Chens, like many members of the nomadic Hakka clan, were sympathetic to the Nationalists. (It was later rebuilt.)
During the Cultural Revolution of the 1960's and 1970's, local officials affixed white banners to Chen homes, branding their residents "counterrevolutionaries" because of their blood ties with those who had gone overseas. No one could go to school for years. Sometimes, they ate only tree leaves. At least one relative was jailed. He died shortly after being released.
"We all suffered," said Chen Dahua, who at 57 is the oldest male of my generation. "Two generations were lost."
All that while my father seemed to seldom think twice about his roots. "He never talked about these things, and I never asked," said my mother. "But I also think he liked being abroad, far from home."
That evidently began to change after China began to open to the West, when he reconnected with Chen Dong through an act of filial devotion. In 1978, when he heard about the government's plan to reclaim my grandparents' burial ground to build a public bathroom, he sent several hundred dollars to help.
This was a turning point. Every year, during the holidays, he sent money. Once, he sent $60 to one cousin as a wedding gift. Another time, he sent $380 to be divided among five families.
My relatives still have his letters. In one from the late-1980's, he wrote with pride that my younger brother, Don, and I were studying at Yale, but that he had to borrow a lot of money to pay for our educations. In another, he encouraged his relatives to leave the countryside for cities like Zhangzhou or Xiamen.
"He said that there were better opportunities in the cities to develop, and to have better lives," said Chen Dahua. "He said that while we would never starve as farmers, we would never be full, either."
In his last letter home, written just before he died in June 1993, he sent $100 to a cousin to help with the care of his ailing wife. For the first time, he also signed the letter with his original name; before, he had always used my name, for reasons that remain unclear.

A Hometown Changed
Chen Dong first got electricity in the late 1970's. Five years ago, there were no phones. Now, many people have both regular phone service and cellphones.
About 10 years ago, the government paved the dirt path that connected the village, which has no more than 2,000 residents, to bigger towns such as Longyan and Dabu. About three years ago, a new train station opened nearby, making it possible to go to Guangzhou, which used to take days to reach, in nine hours.
The paved road is already deteriorating from overuse, particularly from trucks carting coal and cement, making some spots nearly impassable.
The trip is starkly beautiful and sometimes incongruous, grinding up the mountains in second gear and slaloming down past the endless convoys of blue construction trucks. Past lush banana fields. Past the occasional tour bus. Past cement factory after cement factory -- 30 in all, by Chen Dahua's count -- most of them built within the last 10 years.
Sometimes, it is hard to tell where the plumes of smoke end and the clouds begin.
But no one in our family, Chen Dahua said, works at these factories. Instead, more Chens, particularly the younger ones, are heading to Xiamen and Guangzhou. So the family's farms and small roadside stores are minded by the older generation, who spend most of their days watching television, doing chores and inviting people over for tea.
One cousin, Chen Dawen, worked as a farmer before landing a job two years ago at a Guangdong electronics factory run by a relative from Taiwan. He is 42, and makes more money there (roughly $580 a year) than the average farmer in Fujian (about $430), though his income is still below the average urban resident's (about $1,020). But his family still lives here, and he can afford to return home only twice a year.
Now, he views the world through the lens of the middle class.
"Everybody should make more money, but there should be poor people too," he said. "Who's going to sweep the streets?"
My generation shares the middle name of "da," or "big." My brother -- Chen Datong in Chinese -- and I -- Chen Dawei -- are the youngest, because my father did not have children until he was 46.
No one in the "da" generation in China had more than a junior high or high school education. But that is not true for the next generation -- "sheng," or "birth" for the boys, and "mei," or "beautiful," for the girls.
Chen Dahua's son, Yunsheng, a 23-year-old computer whiz, attends college in Guangzhou and watches "Forrest Gump" on his computer. Two female relatives, Meixiang and Meizhao, both 25, are studying for master's degrees at Fujian Teacher's University in Fuzhou. Another relative, Chen Taisheng, is a Xiamen government official who is an expert on international trade issues.
A few years ago, Chen Dahua's father, who lives in Taiwan, helped the family open a store in the ever-expanding city of Zhangzhou. Another of Chen Dahua's sons, together with his daughter, run the store now, which sells souvenirs, toys and art.
"This generation is better off than our generation," said Chen Dahua. "They have more freedom. More opportunities."

A Warm Family Welcome
When I arrive in Chen Dong Village, the family sets off a round of celebratory firecrackers. Family members ask in heavily accented Mandarin if I can speak Hakka, as my father presumably did. I say no -- I did not even know we were Hakka.
Then we try to sort out the usual confusion over ages (they still follow the lunar calendar, which adds a year) and names (Chen Dahua's grandchildren call me "gong gong," or grandpa, though I am only 36.)
No one resembles my father, and no one sees my father in me, based on their fading memories or the blurry photos he sent. But everyone knows about me.
Chen Dawen says that whenever a China Airlines plane crashes, or a big news event occurs, he wonders whether I am safe, or whether I am covering it as a journalist.
"I kept on looking for your name after Sept. 11, hoping I wouldn't see it," he says. "Same thing for Iraq."
Shortly after my arrival, we hike up a slippery mountain path and pay our respects to my grandparents, and my great-grandfather, who are buried in a serene spot overlooking a valley of rice paddies. Later, we visit the earthen buildings where my grandmother lived, and where my father grew up, which are about a 15-minute walk apart. One cousin, Chen Danian, explains that the family has even been preserving my legal rights to the rooms in Dehuilou where my father grew up, and where 60 Chens still live. 
"This is yours," he says, pointing to a small room now used for storage. He points to two other rooms, which are locked. "These two are yours, too. They're a little messy. But we can clean it up for you." At Chen Dahua's house, the family pulls out the genealogy book, published in 1998. I scrutinize page 1,059, where the family tree lists my name, and page 1,057, where my father is listed, and page 1,055, my grandfather's page, and so on.
I notice an error: the book says that my brother and I have Ph.D.'s. Perhaps this is what my father told his relatives many years ago, if only because he expected as much.
I wait for questions about what life is like in America, how much money people make, whether we feel free -- questions that ordinary Chinese often ask. But they do not ask. Instead, they are sweet and generous, without making judgments.
Everybody asks about my wife and our daughters, whose pictures are contained on my computer. Naturally, they assume that we will have a boy next time. I smile and mutter something vague. 
At dinner, the relatives insist that I sit with all the "da brothers." The Chen men exchange toasts of the local brew, Gold Rider beer, and tell stories into the late hours of the inky, rural night.
"Before, we were just a rumor, or some stories, right?" says Chen Dawen. "Now, we're reality. You should visit more often. Bring your brother next time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David W. Chen, sixth from the left, joined relatives in his father's small hometown in China for a ceremony honoring Mr. Chen's grandparents. (Photo by Chen Yunsheng for The New York Times) Map of China highlighting Chen Dong Village: Chen Dong Village has changed considerably in recent years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENEALOGY (90%); MILLENNIUM (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TRENDS (60%) Biographical Information; Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (90%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%) China; Chen Dong (China); Fujian Province (China)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



402 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: As North Korean Men Turn to Business, Women Join the Army 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
While inspecting an army unit recently, North Korea's leader admired how the soldiers had "spruced up" their post, showing the revolutionary ardor "required by the party's slogan: Let us train, study and live like the anti-Japanese guerrillas."
 Then, according to the state news agency, Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, "underscored the need to pay great attention to the service and living of the servicewomen." 
 Increasingly, women fill the baggy brown uniforms of the vaunted "1.1 million-man" Korean People's Army. 
"Feminization" of the North Korean military is a hot new topic for American military analysts trying to size up North Korea, one of the most militarized societies on earth, Dr. Alexandre Y. Mansourov, a former Russian diplomat who is now an American citizen and an analyst specializing in Korea, said from Hawaii, where he teaches at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies, a government-financed center.
Running short of men, North Korea earlier this year lowered the draft age for men to 16, lowered minimum height requirements to 4 feet 9 inches and started drafting women for all-women units.
Where have all the men gone?
"A lot of the males have fled," said Dr. Mansourov. He estimated that about 2 percent of North Korea's population had fled to China in recent years. Another 5 percent probably died in the famine of the mid-1990's.
But a lot of young men are ducking the draft -- and the seven-year hitch it entails -- in order to make money in small businesses.
Last year, North Korea removed price controls on most goods, admitting that the state could no longer dole out food, clothing and housing. With cash being king in the new economy, many young men may realize that their family's survival now depends on earning money, often on the semilegal market fringe.
"A lot of men are beginning to think about the importance of money," said Song Young Sun, director of security policy at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses, a government agency. "In the past, if you stayed in the military, you were guaranteed food, clothing and social success."
Indeed, under North Korea's longstanding "military first" policy, army service was seen to be so advantageous that until last year there was not even a draft.
Military service "no longer brings the perks and benefits that entrepreneurship does," said Dr. Mansourov, who lived in North Korea as a Soviet diplomat in the late 1980's. "They switched to a conscription base because males refused to serve. People of draftable age prefer to go into small business."
Asked what portion of North Korea's military is made up of women, he declined to give an estimate, saying, "That is classified." 
He added, however, that one could "just follow Kim Jong Il's on-site inspections," of the military. "If he visited 36 units last year, as was reported, at least one-third of them were female units."
A recent official photograph from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, showed a sea of brown-uniformed army officers arrayed for a rally marking the 50th anniversary of the armistice that ended the Korean War. Ten of the 40 officers in the front four rows were women.
In South Korea, where the 26-month, mandatory military service for men is increasingly unpopular, the first women are graduating from the South Korean service academies.
Over all, however, only 3,000 women are in South Korea's military, less than half of 1 percent of the total. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); TRENDS (90%); WOMEN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); FAMINE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); REFUGEES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); NEW ECONOMY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Economic Conditions and Trends; Men ; Women; Social Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) Alexandre Y (Dr) Mansourov; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) HAWAII, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



403 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
Using One Blackout To Illuminate Another
 When the blackout hit on Thursday, Richard L. Dunham of rural Malden Bridge in upstate New York lost power at his home for only a bit more than an hour. 
 In fact, he said, because it was daylight and he did not have his lights or television on, he did not even know that his home, southeast of Albany, had been blacked out until relatives who had seen the news called from Florida and Seattle. And by then, his power had been restored. 
Mr. Dunham's most minor involvement with the blackout was in distinct contrast with his spotlighted involvement with the giant power failure that embraced New York City and its suburbs in 1977.
Back then, he was chairman of the Federal Power Commission, and he oversaw the investigation that found that failure to have stemmed from inadequate equipment and flawed emergency procedures on the part of Consolidated Edison.
Con Ed had called the 1977 blackout "an act of God," noting that it had been touched off by lightning strikes on power lines. Mr. Dunham called the blackout "clearly insupportable" and "intolerable."
Mr. Dunham, a Ford administration holdover during Jimmy Carter's presidency and a former New York State budget director, left government service for the private sector shortly after his front-page exchange with Con Ed.
On Friday, the retired Mr. Dunham, 73, recalled having spoken with Abraham D. Beame, New York's mayor in 1977, after the blackout began on the night of July 13. "He was in a panic," Mr. Dunham said.
Looting and arson erupted in the city's poorer neighborhoods that night. The lights stayed out for 25 hours in some areas.
As for last week's episode, "what puzzles me," Mr. Dunham said, is that "after our report in 1977, a lot more safeguards were put in so that if something happened in a particular area, that area would be isolated and would be the only area blacked out and it would be kept from spreading."
But he said it was too early to assess those safeguards "until we find out what actually happened" last week.
After leaving the government, Mr. Dunham was president of the Zinder Companies, an economic and regulatory consulting group. Now, he has some free advice for those investigating last week's failure: Don't whitewash the findings. "It's too important an issue," he said.
Also, he said: "I'm anxious to find out what happened. It's fascinating."

A Clamor Against Bias Gets a Little Louder
In May 2001, 11 blacks and Hispanics, current and former employees of the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, accused the agency in a lawsuit of discrimination in hiring and promotions. Parks officials called the accusations unfounded.
Recently, a court ruling greatly enlarged the plaintiff group. It designated the suit as a class action on behalf of all current and former black and Hispanic workers employed full time at the agency since May 1998.
The suit now covers about 2,000 people, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, Lewis M. Steel, above, said last week.
Mr. Steel called the ruling, by Judge Denny Chin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, a "major development." He added that if the accusations were upheld in a trial, the outcome was now more likely to be an order that the department revamp its overall hiring and promotion policies, rather than simply remedy the complaints of 11 employees.
Though the city had fought the plaintiffs' request for class-action status, Barbara Butler, a senior counsel with the city's Law Department, said last week that the granting of it was "standard procedure."

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LITIGATION (85%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); ARSON (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); BUDGETS (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); DISCRIMINATION (62%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Suits and Litigation; Discrimination; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Electric Light and Power; Government Employees

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Parks and Recreation Department (NYC)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%) Joseph P Fried; Richard L Dunham; Lewis M Steel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



404 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Professor Teaches Change in His Indian Village 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: MIRDHA, India 

 BODY:
Along fields so green they seemed to vibrate with color, Jagadish Shukla walked toward his childhood home.
 There, a room specially built for his visits waited, as did a generator rented so fans could cool him in the Indian heat -- his family's modest effort to provide the comforts of his Bethesda, Md., home in this rural village. 
 Professor Shukla, 59, has lived for 32 years in the United States and is now its citizen. He is a professor at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., and a climatologist who directs the Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies in Calverton, Md.
But he has never relinquished his past or forgotten his home. Every year since leaving India, he has returned to this village of 1,500 people, where he grew up and where his family still lives. 
Like many "nonresident Indians," or "N.R.I.'s," he has used his relative wealth earned in America to pay for the education of his siblings' children here, their marriages, their home improvements, their mother's funeral and, in lean times, their food -- "95 percent" of the family's needs, said his older brother, Mahendra Pratap Shukla.
But in recent years he has taken his commitment a step further, setting aside 10 percent of his income for more ambitious projects that are testing the limits of change in a place where the clock is still set by the sun and cows wander down muddy lanes past men in the long loincloths known as lungi. 
Bill Clinton once suggested that if every nonresident Indian adopted an Indian village, it could transform the country. Professor Shukla's own experience shows the truth and fallacy of that statement.
His efforts have bettered the lives of individuals here. Yet he still seeks an answer to the question, long pondered by Indians at home and abroad, of how to bring the country's hundreds of thousands of villages, even his own, into the 21st century. 
"That's the real challenge," Professor Shukla said during a two-day visit home. "What will it take to transform the other India?"
Mirdha is set in the eastern reaches of India's most populous state, Uttar Pradesh, a region with a reputation for poverty and backwardness. 
With power for at most eight hours a day, the village plunges into blackness at night. Water comes only through inconstant hand pumps. Most residents still make their living farming, but as generations divide the land into smaller pieces, the livings are ever more meager. 
Most residents relieve themselves in open fields, the women only after dark. The primary school is a decrepit two-room structure with no desks or chairs, and 70 percent of the children drop out before junior high, said the village leader.
With $50,000 of his own money and $50,000 given by others, Professor Shukla has built a community college, rare in any Indian village. He has also started an after-hours program for children not enrolled in primary school and opened a small medical dispensary. His younger brother, Shri Ram Shukla, oversees the projects.
But while Professor Shukla fantasizes about a giant network of N.R.I.'s like him replicating tested ideas in a constellation of villages, he concedes that, ultimately, they cannot substitute for government. 
After only six months, for example, the medical dispensary has been overrun and is dispensing double the amount of free medicine budgeted. Professor Shukla frets that it will soon be unsustainable.
"Everything is beginning," he said. "In some ways we are groping." 
Professor Shukla has also encountered an entrenched village culture. While villagers speak positively, and sometimes glowingly, of his investment, no one wants to part with the land needed for one of his pet projects -- laying paths in place of muddy patches caused by poor drainage. 
His new drive for 100 percent literacy has raised questions, half-joking but half-serious, about who will labor in the homes and fields.
Nor is everyone convinced he can really bring change. "Everyone said, 'O.K., O.K., O.K.,' but I can tell you it's simply not possible in the village," Vishva Nath Shukla, 70, said one evening of Professor Shukla's plans.
One retired teacher, Baban Singh, 70, said nothing ever changed in the village because no one would cooperate. If someone takes initiative, he said, "Everyone thinks: 'What is his agenda? How is he trying to make money?' "
Even Professor Shukla provokes such suspicions, said Mr. Singh: "People do talk -- Why is he spending the money? Where is he getting it? What are his interests?"
In part what Professor Shukla wants to do -- through the committees he has formed, the meetings he has held and especially the college he has already built -- is change the notion that change is not possible.
Because he is now as much outsider as insider, the danger is that even his help affirms that change cannot come from within. "He's very well-respected, people listen to him," said Arjun Sharma, a laborer. "With him it might be possible. Without him, it's not."
Wary of cultivating overdependence even within his own family, Professor Shukla has never financed luxury living, although he does dole out cash gifts when he leaves. The house got an indoor toilet only recently and still has no sink or shower.
To encourage villagers' self-sufficiency, he gave them a sermon on the "tipping point," trying to explain that maintaining a certain standard of cleanliness would encourage people to keep an area clean.
Like one-fourth of the villagers, Professor Shukla is a Brahmin, and his notions of uplift are characteristic of the caste of the elite. His father, a teacher who was then the only educated man in the village, started its primary school.
As a result, Mr. Singh, the retired teacher, reminded Professor Shukla that the village had already made some progress.
"There was a time when anyone who received a letter would go to your house and ask your father to read the letter," Mr. Singh said. "Now there are plenty of people who can read and write."
Professor Shukla, who with his silver hair and pressed shirts looks as much Boston Brahmin as Indian one, is particularly proud of the high standards of the school he has opened himself, Gandhi Degree College, where admissions are by merit.
Professor Shukla's subversive goal is to teach Gandhian principles -- honesty, perseverance, selflessness -- in a country where they are increasingly unfashionable. He insisted on a no-cheating policy, although cheating is rampant in many area colleges. At first the policy deterred some students, but now it draws them. The college is at capacity with 500 students, 70 percent of them women. 
Professor Shukla holds two doctorates, including one from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and has broken scientific ground by demonstrating that predictability exists within chaos in climate.
But in the village, he said, a scientific mind is "not a help." His brothers often remind him of the chaos of life -- emotion, culture and other unscientific variables.
His reflexive description is that nothing has changed in the village, but a morning walk during this visit made him rethink that.
He saw new businesses attaching like barnacles along an expanding road system. He saw new homes, often built with the earnings of relatives who, like him, had migrated, if only to other states.
He learned that village Dalits, or untouchables as they were once known, no longer bother with making leather from dead cows, an occupation to which caste once consigned them, because there were now more profitable ways to make a living.
The need to know how things really work so he can better invest his money has convinced him that he should start spending 10 percent of his time in Mirdha each year. He concedes that it will be a challenge.
"After five days I'm looking for a comfortable hotel," he said of his limited tolerance for personal suffering. "What a man Gandhi was."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students at Gandhi Degree College, which was built with money from Jagadish Shukla. Of the college's 500 students, 70 percent are women.; Jagadish Shukla, left, stopped to talk to a villager during a walk through Mirdha, India, where he grew up and where his family lives. Professor Shukla resides in the United States but invests time and money in the village. (Photographs by Amy Waldman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); TRENDS (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Indian-Americans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Jagadish (Prof) Shukla; Amy Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) India; Mirdha (India); India

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



405 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS; 
Echo of Adirondacks At a Wisconsin Pond

BYLINE:  By John van Vliet

 BODY:
At Doc's Pond in northern Wisconsin the evening rise was on. Brook trout measured in pounds, not inches, rolled on the inky, bog-stained surface of the one-acre pond like solitary orcas. Around the shore, a fringe of close-mown grass -- wide enough to allow for a fly angler's backcast -- separated the dark water from the dense woods of white birch and maple and towering remnant old-growth white pine. My friend Cliff and I stood on the bank with our fly rods and watched the trout.
 Cliff has been fishing this manicured pond since he was old enough to keep both ends of a bamboo fly rod off the ground at the same time, as did his father, grandfather and great-grandfather before him. Like almost everything on the surrounding thousand acres, this pond has changed little since 1890, when it was first stocked with trout. On an old birch at the edge of the woods a simple blue-and-white enamel sign reminds any uninvited guests who make it past the caretaker's cabin that this is private property. 
 Through the trees to the west of Doc's Pond is a larger lake, nearly a mile long. Along the south shore are a handful of cabins that bear a striking resemblance to the great camps of the Adirondack Mountains of upstate New York. One, a Swiss-style chalet, is reminiscent of North Point, Carnegie's great camp on Raquette Lake designed by the architect William Coulter. Others resemble designs by William West Durant or William Distin. And it's no accident: the men who purchased this low, rolling land from the railroad in the late 1880's were men of wealth and privilege, leaders of Chicago's industries, lumber barons and railroad builders. And like their East Coast counterparts, they wanted their wilderness carefully cultivated and their rustic retreat endowed with creature comforts. They looked to the camps and clubs of Maine and New York, Michigan and New Brunswick, as the standards for their new private sporting enclave in the Wisconsin woods.
Like many of the Midwestern clubs, this one was carefully situated near a handful of world-class trout rivers that drain the glacial uplands above Lake Michigan: the Peshtigo, the Menomonee, the Oconto, the Pine, and others. But Works Progress Administration dam projects, the Great Depression, a handful of wars, a changing economy and shifting tastes and fortunes have taken a toll on these clubs.
I asked Cliff how many private clubs like this still existed in the region and was surprised to hear him rattle off a half-dozen names. He told me that each club had adapted to a century of change in a different way. Some were bought out by a single member, some went public and abandoned exclusivity, others simply faded away. But Cliff's family was here at the start, and he is optimistic that the club can adapt to social and economic change. He was made a member -- succeeding his father, who still fishes here -- just last year.
The members of this club are understandably protective of their privacy. There is neither a club Web site nor published directions to the place. But they have always been gracious and candid and welcoming to me.
Though the club's roots are in the 19th century, its attitude is distinctly 21st. The focus of the club has shifted over the decades from hunting and fishing to family activities and golf.
I peppered Cliff with questions about the history of the club (Which cabin is oldest? Who were the first members? Who would be eligible for membership today?), but he deflected them as he made another cast. "You should really ask Tom," he told me.
Tom is by all accounts the unofficial club historian. He knows every member, the history of every cabin, and the location of every school of crappies and bass in the big lake. And he should know these things; he's the son of the former club manager. "My father was born in the cook's house," he said with a laugh as he pulled a crappie out from under a dock with his fly rod. "My grandfather was club manager, and his father, my great-grandfather, was the manager beginning in 1892."
Tom's father died when Tom was 20, and though the club invited his mother to stay on, she left a year later, leaving the house where Tom and his brother Peter grew up. It was a double loss to Tom, whose world to that point had been shaped by his father and their life within the fence that enclosed the club property. "I was 16 before I realized my father didn't own the place," he confessed. But the club members always made him feel welcome.
Tom, who is now in his 40's, went on to a successful career in the financial world of Chicago. And on the weekend I was there, he was elected the club's newest member. His new cabin (built in 1912) is within sight of the house where he spent his childhood. And just outside the club's gates, in a small rural cemetery, Tom's father is buried.
As the sun sank through the trees, Cliff and I sipped our before-dinner drinks and puffed on Dominican cigars. We cast black Woolly Buggers into Doc's Pond and stripped them in slowly. But the trout seemed as preoccupied as we were, and ignored our offerings. 
Cliff invites me to the club at least twice a year, and each morning of every visit he and I walk to a larger pond a half-mile from Doc's and launch the old rowboat before breakfast. Our luck is always better there. Most mornings produce at least one trout over three pounds, with six-pound trout not uncommon.
Before my stay was over, I caught and released two browns and a brook trout over two pounds and a three-and-a-half-pound rainbow from the larger pond, as well as seven large crappies, which I kept for a friend, from the big lake. All on an olive-and-peacock caddis emerger I had tied after dinner beside the fireplace in Cliff's cabin.
And at least one evening of each visit we fish this pond until it is time for dinner. If tradition is the hinge pin on which these old clubs turn, then standing there watching the trout rise on Doc's Pond is ours. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); LAKES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Trout

PERSON: John Van Vliet

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



406 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: THE STATES; 
Governors See Obstacles To a Unified Energy Stand

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
As life in the Northeast slowly returned to normal after this week's widespread electrical blackout, the National Governors Association convened its four-day summer meeting here today with a full agenda of major issues to discuss. Electricity transmission was not among them.
 With most states scrambling to close budget deficits and Medicare costs eating away at revenues, the chairman of the association, Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky, said problems that might have contributed to millions of people losing power were too complicated for the organization to speak as a unified voice. 
 "This is an area where different states have competing interests," Mr. Patton, a Democrat, said at the association's opening news conference. "The N.G.A. is not equipped to adopt a unified strategy. We are only effective dealing on a relatively nonpartisan basis when there is a relative unanimity of opinion."
The reluctance of the association to press for improvements in the nation's electricity grid, even in the aftermath of a malfunction that affected millions of people, reflects the complexity of problems that need to be fixed and the number of jurisdictions that are demanding a say in how. Because the movement of electricity is instantaneous andpower grids are connected, local, state and federal governments all have claims to oversight and responsibility.
In recent years, more acute problems facing the states, like rising unemployment and growing budget gaps, have pushed energy transmission issues down the governors' list of priorities. Two years ago, Mr. Patton was chairman of the association's Task Force on Electricity, which later produced a 30-page report that included nine recommendations to revitalize the nation's system for generating and moving electricity.
But its conclusions came with the notation that the recommendations "should not be considered N.G.A. policy," and, reflecting the enormous range of problems that require collaboration from all levels of government, the recommendations were offered as being voluntary.
Diane Shea, director of the association's Natural Resources Committee, said one of the report's foremost suggestions, that states form multistate entities to coordinate transmission planning and location, led to the creation of only one, the Midwestern Independent System Operator, uniting efforts in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and several other states.
"States have always been very protective about land use," Ms. Shea said about why more such regional efforts have not formed and why federal policy is difficult to create. "When there are proposals to take away control, states are very reluctant to have their authority preempted by federal entities far removed from local concerns."
Fears of intrusion by the federal government have led to at least one instance in which the association has spoken with a single voice. Ms. Shea said that the governors opposed a provision of the energy bill passed by the House that would limit states to a period of 180 days to approve a company's bid to build new transmission lines, after which the company could appeal to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The latest energy bill passed by the Senate has no such provision.
John Thomasian, the association's director for best practices, said the governors would likely discuss the blackout in private sessions, which unlike many of their meetings are closed to reporters.
This week's energy problems in the Northeast notwithstanding, transmission-related issues might become more important to the governors. On Tuesday, when the meetings end, Mr. Patton's chairmanship passes to Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, a Republican, who said today that he would make electrical transmission issues a higher priority for his fellow governors.
"The rest of the country just felt a phenomenon that many thought was specific to the West," Mr. Kempthorne said, comparing the latest outages to blackouts that California and other Western states have experienced in recent years. "It's very appropriate to take some of the lessons we learned into perspective and combine them with those from our colleagues in the East."
Mr. Kempthorne, a former chairman of the Western Governors Association, also suggested that the national group would take a more active role in influencing federal policy on energy. Despite Mr. Patton's contention that power-grid problems were too unwieldy for such a group, Mr. Kempthorne cited a recent bipartisan effort by Western governors that resulted in the federal government's providing $700 million to improve transmission facilities in the Pacific Northwest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POWER FAILURES (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); MEDICARE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Politics and Government; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: National Governors Assn

PERSON: Michael Janofsky; Paul E (Gov) Patton; Dirk (Gov) Kempthorne

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



407 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: VISITORS; 
So, Fewer Sights to See? Tourists Take It in Stride

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES and DAISY HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Shelley Jackson has her punch line ready.
 For months, Ms. Jackson had looked forward to making a trip to New York from her native England with her husband and three children. They arrived in town Thursday afternoon armed with a typical itinerary: Central Park, Empire State Building,Statue of Liberty. 
 But when she returns home to Farnborough Village, she already has an answer for anyone who asks what she saw in New York. "We couldn't see anything," said Ms. Jackson, 41, barely suppressing a chuckle, "because the lights were out!"
Ms. Jackson's response says much about how many tourists in New York City have reacted to the blackout of 2003. Despite the obvious inconveniences -- closed attractions, long lines at airports -- many visitors to the city reacted with much the same resilience, aplomb, and, yes, good humor of native New Yorkers.
If after terror attacks, the economic downturn and other calamities, perseverance has somehow become encoded into the DNA of residents of the five boroughs, then a bit of it may have rubbed off on those who have visited the city in recent days.
Just consider what Ms. Jackson -- who over the past several days has watched many of her fellow tourists sleep on sidewalks, miss Broadway shows and endure mammoth traffic jams -- said of the blackout: "You just have to go with it."
And go she did. Like many tourists, Ms. Jackson continued her New York trip as planned -- well, almost. Yesterday, Ms. Jackson; her husband, Mark; and their children, Ben, 11, Jos, 10, and Lydia, 9, tried unsuccessfully to visit the observation deck at the Empire State Building, which was still closed because of the blackout.
Undaunted, the children snapped photos of the building from sidewalk level while she considered other places for the family to visit.
"It's definitely not been the holiday we planned, but we've been very impressed with the plans that were put in place," Ms. Jackson said.
That's the kind of response from visitors that city officials were hoping for. Although officials said that it was too early to know the full impact on tourism, the blackout could scarcely have come at a worse time for an industry still trying to recover from the economic recession and the lingering effects of Sept. 11.
However, city tourism officials said that perhaps the blackout might have a different result than one might expect.
"What people outside of New York City could see about us reflected very positively on our mayor, on our leaders, but also on average New Yorkers," said Cristyne L. Nicholas, the chief executive of NYC & Company, the city's tourism office. "Those images of New Yorkers directing traffic and helping each other. Just like after 9/11, you had those horrible images being replayed, but there were also compassionate stories. There were compassionate stories after the blackout, and that helps the image of New Yorkers."
The blackout did not wear quite so well on some visitors. 
"We have another problem," Francesco Berardi, 38, of Bari, Italy, said. "Air France lost our luggage."
He and his friend Mauro Stasi, 24, arrived in the city shortly before the blackout and on Saturday were wearing New York T-shirts that they had bought for $10 apiece.
"It was a disaster," Mr. Berardi said. "One and half days we have no water, no light."
Power came back on Friday at the hotel where they are staying, and he expected his baggage to arrive last night.
"We decided to continue with our plans," said Mr. Berardi, who was walking south on Broadway, carrying a tourist book of Manhattan in Italian. "I have a plan with this book."
He was headed for the Empire State Building in case it might be open. If it wasn't, he said, he would walk around and maybe do some shopping.
Colleen Lewis, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, standing in line for the matinee showing of "The Lion King" at the New Amsterdam Theater, saidthat she, too, continued her trip after the jarring first few hours of the blackout.
"We were going to Carmine's for dinner, and they weren't letting anyone in," she said. "They told us that we needed to find a place to go, because around Carmine's wasn't a good place to be after dark. It was really getting kind of scary.
"My first thought was, 'This would never happen in Cedar Rapids!' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mauro Stasi, left, and Francesco Berardi, of Bari, Italy, lost luggage.; Ben Jackson, with brother Jos, photographed the Empire State Building. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TERRORISM (68%); RECESSION (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Electric Light and Power; Travel and Vacations; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

PERSON: Richard Lezin Jones; Daisy Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); ENGLAND (92%); ITALY (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



408 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: POLITICS; 
Blackout Is Testing Power Of Another Kind in Albany

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
The lights had not come back on in Midtown Manhattan on Friday morning when Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly, announced that its Democrats would be holding hearings into what caused the blackout of 2003.
 It was a clear signal that the widespread power failure had catapulted the issue of electricity back to top of the political agenda here, nudging out of the way the fight last week between Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg over a financial aid package for New York City. 
 Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has been at odds with Mr. Pataki over the deregulation of New York State's power system since the Pataki administration began the process in 1996. One reason is that Mr. Pataki achieved deregulation administratively, without the Legislature's approval. 
Mr. Silver left no doubt that he thought the blackout had exposed the weaknesses in the power system and that he intended to seize the opportunity to re-examine New York's regulation of the power industry.
"For almost a decade, experts have warned of a very real vulnerability that exists in the transmission and delivery of electricity throughout the state," the speaker said in a statement. "Despite attempts by the Assembly, through numerous public hearings, reports and legislation, to address this problem, little has been done."
The governor also seemed to recognize the politically explosive nature of the power issue today, as he toured the state urging residents to conserve energy. He immediately put some distance between the blackout and the policies of his administration, stressing that the problem seemed to have begun outside New York. He also adopted the role of the aggrieved customer, demanding answers as to why the cascade of power failures had occurred.
"There should never have been that instability in the grid that we saw across the Northeast yesterday," he said on Friday at an early-morning news conference. Later, Mr. Pataki joined the governors of New Jersey and Connecticut in calling on the federal energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, to investigate the cause of the huge failure.
Today, appearing at the Capitol with Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey and Mr. Abraham, Governor Pataki repeated his call for a full investigation.
In a separate interview, Mr. Pataki said that it was too soon to tell whether New York's relatively old transmission system played any role in the blackout, though he noted that so far no one investigating the failure had identified any problems with the state's power plants or transmission lines. He gently chastised politicians who, in his view, might use the fiasco to political advantage. 
"This is too important a problem to do anything like score political points," he said, adding, "I would hope those that try to politicize it just end up marginalized."
Yet, the governor said the blackout also appeared to be likely to revive debate in Albany on a host of related issues and bills. The Republican majority in the Senate immediately criticized the Democrats on Friday for not passing a Senate bill earlier this year that would regulate where power plants are built.
Proposals to build new transmission lines to carry power down the Hudson Valley to New York City, which have often faced resistance upstate, suddenly gained new life in the minds of some Republicans and Democrats. So did plans for new lines to feed power to Manhattan from New Jersey. The Pataki administration's efforts to promote renewable sources of electricity are also likely to get a boost.
And the squabble between New York and Connecticut over a cable that can carry power under the Long Island Sound promised to heat up, as Mr. Pataki persuaded federal authorities to order the Long Island Cross-Sound Cable to be temporarily energized to help areas recover from the blackout.
But the major battle in Albany is likely to be a partisan dispute over how much regulation is too much. Under the Pataki administration's deregulation plan, utilities sold off their power plants but held onto the network of lines that transmit the power from one city to another and into buildings. The power is produced and priced according to market forces.
But the companies that transmit the power are regulated by the State Public Service Commission, and would invest in new transmission lines only if rate increases were approved, something the commission has been reluctant to do, since the whole goal of deregulation is to reduce prices.
The Assembly Democrats argue that this system has led to too little investment in new transmission lines and other infrastructure for distributing power. Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko, the chairman of the energy committee, points out that the amount spent on new transmission lines dropped to $90 million in 1999, after deregulation, from $304 million in 1988, under a regulated system.
The result, he said, is an outdated, overtaxed delivery system with plenty of bottlenecks, the most serious being around New York City and Long Island. "It is a frail system at best," Mr. Tonko said.
But Senate Republicans say the attempt to use the blackout to reopen the debate over deregulation is a ruse, intended to distract attention from what they say is the Assembly's slowness to adopt a new law governing the building of power plants.
Senator James W. Wright, a Watertown Republican who is chairman the Senate Energy Committee, maintained that New York's infrastructure appeared to have performed well during the blackout.
Safety features throughout the state saved power plants from serious damage, and power was restored in little more than a day. Mr. Wright noted that the last two major blackouts, in 1965 and 1977, occurred under highly regulated systems.
"In fact, New York's infrastructure did what it was supposed to do," he said. "I don't see any correlation to deregulation."
A former chairwoman of the Public Service Commission, Maureen O. Helmer, acknowledged that the state needed to upgrade its transmission lines to get more power into the city. But she said the weaknesses in the national economy, the uncertainty in energy markets and the corporate scandals that rocked the energy sector have had a greater discouraging effect on investment than the regulatory system in New York. She added that the blackout may well prompt more interest in several stalled projects.
Some Democrats, however, said they thought Mr. Pataki should re-examine his commitment to free trade and take some actions to compel the utilities to build more transmission lines and improve the infrastructure throughout the state.
"We understand free trade," said Assemblyman Paul A. Tokasz, a Buffalo Democrat, "but quite frankly the public safety is at issue here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The federal energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, speaking yesterday at the State Capitol in Albany after a meeting with Gov. George E. Pataki, left, of New York, and Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Power Lines; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) James C Jr Mckinley; George E (Gov) Pataki; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



409 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Newest Treatments Create a Quandary On Medicare Costs 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
The federal Medicare program is expected to decide this week whether to pay for an aggressive and expensive lung operation that could offer a lifeline to tens of thousands of elderly patients.
 But health economists and medical experts say the treatment, however alluring, is part of an unsettling trend: new and ever pricier treatments for common medical conditions that are part and parcel of aging -- procedures that could potentially benefit tens of thousands of patients, at a total cost that would far exceed the kind of prescription drug benefit now being considered by Congress. 
 The questions, these experts say, are how much Medicare can or should pay, and whether cost-effectiveness should enter into the decisions.
The procedure under consideration this week is an operation for people with severe emphysema, whose lungs are so scarred that they are constantly out of breath. In keeping with its policies, the government's Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has consulted with medical experts and professional societies and says it expects to issue its decision as early as tomorrow. 
The story of the operation, health economists say, is a case study of the troubling and thorny questions that Medicare administrators face as they try to live within the constraints of the $267.8 billion-a-year federal program.
Some say the operation can transform patients' lives.
"If your parents had this condition, you would seek this operation for them," said Dr. Joel Cooper, a lung surgeon at Washington University in St. Louis who developed the operation. Others point to a recent study indicating that its benefits are modest, at best. 
But all agree that the patients are severely ill, with no other options. And all agree that the operation is expensive. A recent analysis showed that patients who had the operation had medical bills averaging nearly $63,000 the first year, compared with $13,000 for similar patients who had not had it.
Estimates of the number of potential patients vary from 1 percent to 15 percent of the nation's two million emphysema patients, or as many as 300,000 people, at a total cost of $1 billion to $15 billion. 
For now, said Dr. Sean Tunis, the chief medical officer at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, "nobody has a good estimate on how big this population of patients is."
Complicating the issue are other similarly expensive procedures that are on the horizon or have been approved recently. For example, Medicare is to decide next month on devices for patients with congestive heart failure, whose hearts are so damaged they can barely pump.
The devices, known as L.V.A.D.'s, for left ventricular assist devices, can help failing hearts pump. Dr. Annetine Gelijins and Dr. Alan Moscowitz of Columbia University, who did an economic analysis, said they expected about 5,000 Medicare patients a year to get the devices at first, but that as many as 60,000 have heart damage so severe that they might need them. 
At $60,000 per device, and with an additional $150,000 in hospitalization charges, the price for L.V.A.D.'s could range from $1.05 billion to $12.6 billion a year.
A recent clinical trial involving very sick people indicated that the devices were effective. But Dr. Alan Garber, a physician and economist at Stanford University, said the question was not whether they worked. 
"The big question is, 'In whom else does it work?' " he said. "The people in the trial had extraordinarily severe congestive heart failure and were being kept alive in intensive care units. That's the tip of the iceberg in congestive heart failure."
"We seem to be getting new technologies that are effective for common conditions, like congestive heart failure, like emphysema," he went on. "If you are talking about a treatment for a rare genetic disorder that affected 500 or even 1,000 patients a year it would not make much difference. But in the case of L.V.A.D.'s, or with lung volume reduction surgery, the potential number who will get it is quite large so it will force the issue. How are we going to make it available to Medicare beneficiaries without wrecking the Medicare budget?"
Dr. Tunis, of the Medicare services center, says he understood that the costs of new technologies can be staggering. But he adds that cost has traditionally not been a consideration in deciding what to cover.
"If the technology was effective, we would find a way to pay for it," he said. "There is no dollar value per life per year at which Medicare would decline to pay." 
But costs are mounting.
The agency just approved implantable defibrillators, which can shock a failing heart, preventing sudden death. They cost $30,000 per patient. 
Medicare restricted the devices to patients with specific patterns of disease, denying payment for them to about half of the million or more patients who could benefit, according to a large study. But now it is under intense pressure from doctors, patients and professional societies to expand its coverage to all those who met the study's criteria.
Then there are coated stents, tiny cages coated with drugs to prop open arteries and prevent the blood vessels from closing again. Each costs $3,200, compared withabout $1,000 for the older, uncoated stents.
The million patients a year who get stents typically get more than one, with some getting four or five, said Dr. David Hillis, an interventional cardiologist at the University of Texas Southwestern School of Medicine, who called the increased use of defibrillators and coated stents "a good way to bust the budget wide open."
Medical experts say that in addition to the legitimate costs of each of these procedures, they fear technology creep -- an increasing use of expensive procedures to wider and wider groups of patients, many of whom may not benefit and may even be harmed. 
"I think it is huge, I think it is pervasive. And it is a major driver in Medicare's cost growth," said Dr. Scott Ramsey, a health economist at the University of Washington who analyzed the cost of lung volume reduction surgery. "The reason Medicare is cutting payments to doctors is that its expenses for technology are expanding so fast." 
The emphysema operation, lung volume reduction surgery, sneaked up on Medicare about a decade ago.
Medicare never agreed to pay for the procedure. But unbeknownst to the agency, pay it did.
"None of the contractors in the Medicare system was aware that the operation was becoming more popular until it began being reported in journals," Dr. Tunis said.
In 1996, Medicare learned that it had paid for 3,000 patients and the numbers were growing fast. But there was a 17 percent mortality rate and no good evidence that the operation worked.
In response, the federal government started a clinical trial involving 1,218 patients. Medicare would pay for the operation only if patients participated in the trial, and if they joined the trial there was a 50 percent chance that they would be assigned to a control group that did not get the operation. 
Dr. Tunis says the outcome of the trial will determine whether Medicare will cover the operation. But Dr. Ramsey, the University of Washington health economist, said the agency never stopped to consider "what would happen if the trial came out with uncertain results."
The data, published in May, were not quite the ringing endorsement that many had hoped for.
The study found a subgroup that seemed to benefit -- patients with emphysema located mostly in the upper lobes of their lungs and little ability to exercise. They survived longer and could exercise more after they had the operation.
But that is not rigorous evidence, since any set of data will include small subgroups that benefit and others that are harmed. In evaluating trials of new drugs and procedures, the Food and Drug Administration does not accept such subgroup analyses, requiring a second trial for the subgroup that may benefit. 
But a second trial of the lung operation is unlikely, many medical experts said. The first one was so controversial that some doctors would not participate, saying it would be unfair to their patients to deny them the surgery if they fell into the control group. 
"We felt it was not possible for us to look a patient in the eye and say, 'We honestly don't know whether you are better off with this operation or without it,' " said Dr. Cooper of Washington University. He encouraged his Medicare patients to sue. "I went to court 28 times and won 28 cases," he said.
While some, like Dr. Ramsey, say that the clinical trial's results were far from a ringing endorsement of the operation, many lung surgeons disagree, saying that for the 25 percent of patients in the subgroup, the operation was a huge success.
Dr. Barry Make, who directs the emphysema program atthe National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, was struck by the survival benefit in the subgroup. "That result is stupendous," Dr. Make said, adding that many patients also felt better.
Dr. Ramsey and others worry that if Medicare approves the operation for the restricted group of patients like those in the subgroup, technology creep may lead to many more having the surgery.
Seventy percent of the nation's estimated two million emphysema patients have upper lobe damage. How will Medicare know whether a particular patient also has poor exercise capacity?
Dr. Cooper says the solution is to restrict the operation to a few centers of excellence where experienced surgeons will assess patients and decide who should have the operation.
Dr. Tunis agreed but said there were limits to how much policing Medicare could do, or wanted to do.
"We don't have a direct way of enforcing compliance with coverage, particularly in patient selection criteria," he said. "It's sort of an honor system. But a lot of these patient characteristics are somewhat subjective or qualitative."
And that, says Dr. Garber, is almost guaranteed to lead to overuse.
There is pressure from patients, doctors and hospitals to cover expensive new procedures, even if their benefits are modest. And that is understandable, Dr. Garber said. "If you the patient are insulated against the cost consequences of your decision, why not get the latest and greatest?" But, he added, there is a price to be paid.
One solution would be to greatly increase Medicare's budget. But that would mean tax increases. Another would be for Medicare to consider cost-effectiveness, rather than just effectiveness. But, Dr. Tunis said, every time that has been proposed, the agency has had to back down. 
"This is the fundamental problem hidden behind the broader discussions of health care reform," Dr. Tunis said. "At the end of the day, somebody has to make the decisions one at a time about what people are going to get. But the reality is that we can't afford to pay for absolutely everything that provides some benefit."
So, Dr. Garber said, "Medicare is in a bind."
"The real question," he said, is "how can we inform the public better that, when they want to have access to health care, someone will pay and it will be them?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (83%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CASE STUDIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ETHICS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); HEART DISEASE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Heart; Lungs; Defibrillators; Emphysema; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Aged; Ethics

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (69%) MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



410 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Israel Eases Demand On Holding Militants
Israel has backed away from its demand that the men it regards as wanted terrorists be held in Palestinian prisons.Mohammad Dahlan, the Palestinian minister of security, has given assurances that he will monitor the wanted men and prevent them from mounting attacks. 1

U.S. High on Terror List
A research company based in London is releasing a report tomorrow that says the United States is the fourth most likely of 186 countries to be the target of a terrorist attack within the next year. Colombia, Israel and Pakistan are the only countries with a greater risk. 9

Bomb Suspected in Iraqi Fire
Saboteurs blew up part of a major oil pipeline in northern Iraq, stopping oil from flowing from Iraq to Turkey three days after the pipeline was reopened, officials said. 8

Group Plan Forming for Liberia
A plan is taking shape to turn over control of Liberia to a United Nations trusteeship. This international group would help run the country, backed by American dollars and foreign soldiers recruited from across the world, until Liberia proves capable of running itself. 4

Korean Women in the Military
Increasingly, women fill the baggy brown uniforms of the vaunted "1.1 million-man" Korean People's Army. "Feminization" of the North Korean military is a hot new topic for American military analysts trying to size up North Korea. 7

NATIONAL 14-22

Power Restored in Midwest But Some Problems Linger
Electric power was restored to Detroit and Cleveland, the last two major metropolitan areas in the United States to recover from the blackout that hit the Northeast, the Midwest and parts of Canada, leaving millions of people in the dark. New York City's return to a normal routine leapt forward when subway service was restored to all five boroughs. 1

The events that led to Thursday's blackout began when several high-voltage transmission lines near Cleveland failed, investigators said. The utility that owns the lines said an alarm that should have alerted controllers to the shutdown also failed. 1

New York is seen as a far different, and more orderly, place since the last major blackout, in 1977. 1

DVD's Alter an Industry
Men are the biggest buyers of DVD's, a major producer of home video revenue, and their taste in movies has become a powerful force in Hollywood. 1

Pursuing a Vision
Thirty-five years ago, Arnold Schwarzenegger, an unknown Austrian bodybuilder, came to the United States and made a prediction: He would become a movie star, make millions, marry a glamorous wife and wield political power. 1

Steamship Discovered
A private company of sea explorers has found the Republic, a steamship that sank just after the Civil War in waters off Georgia. The company's plans to recover the cargo of artifacts, including gold coins worth perhaps $150 million, is raising questions about the uneasy mix of commercial and archaelogical interests. 14

NEW YORK/REGION 25-32

U.N. State of Mind: Small World. Slow, Too
The United Nations borrows some of its essence from all its 191 member states, and very little from the city around it. 25

An Unfamiliar Absence at Rally
One critical ingredient was missing from the annual "Love Yourself, Stop the Violence" rally in central Brooklyn: City Councilman James E. Davis, the group's founder, who was shot dead less than a month ago. 27

Fresh Air Fund 32

OBITUARIES 32-33

Idi Amin
The Ugandan dictator, whose eight- year reign of terror encompassed widescale killing, torture and dispossession of multitudes and left his country pauperized, was believed to have been about 78 years old. 32

SCIENCE/HEALTH

A Quandary for Medicare
The federal Medicare program is expected to decide this week whether to pay for an aggressive and expensive lung operation that could offer a lifeline to tens of thousands of elderly patients. But health economists and medical experts are asking how much Medicare can or should pay, and whether cost-effectiveness should be a factor at all. 1

Chess 26
Weather 20

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); FILM (84%); MARINE VESSELS (83%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); ARMIES (74%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); COINS & COINAGE (67%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (65%); CELEBRITIES (64%); CITIES (64%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



411 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: THE NEIGHBORHOODS; 
For Owners of Stores Hit by Looters, Low Crime Rate During Crisis Is No Comfort

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
With the lights back on yesterday in New York City, several shopkeepers said they had returned to work to find their stores broken into and their merchandise gone. The police took reports of everything from precious stones to boxes of diapers snatched while the lights and alarms were out.
 A handful of reports of looting, which the police said appeared to be random and isolated, came after widespread praise of a an orderly, behaved New York during the blackout, which began shortly after 4 p.m. Thursday and lasted more than 24 hours in parts of the city. 
 The level of looting was economically insignificant compared with the huge loss during the 1977 blackout, from which areas like Bushwick, in Brooklyn, are only now recovering. 
But that was little consolation to the angry victims of 2003, who had written off to bad luck the business they lost and the perishables that spoiled, only to find themselves victims of their own neighbors and customers. 
On the high end, the police said that whoever was behind the rooftop break-in at Zodiac Jewelry, 2829 Third Avenue in the Bronx, got away with more than $100,000 in chains, bracelets, rings and whatever else had been in the display cases. 
A repairman at the store, near the intersection of Third and Willis Avenues, said yesterday that the burglars, benefiting from an alarm system rendered useless by the power failure, broke a hole in the roof and climbed down into the shop with a ladder. Perhaps worried the power would come back soon, they also cut the wires to the alarm and made off with the goods. "They left the ladder," said the repairman, who would not identify himself. 
A group of looters in Brooklyn left behind more than that: nine members of the group were arrested while robbing the Gastonia Grocery at 536 Ralph Avenue in Crown Heights, on Thursday night, the police said. 
Under the glow of a nearly full moon, neighbors saw several people climbing in and out of a hole in the wall behind the store, and called the authorities. But several others got away with most of what the store sold, said Luz Rios, 30, of Queens, who works there. 
"Money, cigarettes, MetroCards, groceries, beer, everything," she said. "They almost emptied the store." She said the group used hammers and other tools to smash the hole in the wall.
But the biggest blow came later. When the store employees saw the list of names of five men, two women and two teenage boys arrested outside the store, they recognized several. "They live around here," Ms. Rios said. "Some of them are from the next building. We know them. We service them. We give them service, you know? I don't know why they'd do that to us."
In other reports of looting, about 20 people were arrested late Thursday and charged with trying to steal sneakers from a Foot Locker on Flatbush Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn, the police said.
Six other people were arrested at a cellphone store and an appliance rental outlet in Bedford-Stuyvesant, and three more were caught trying to break into a jewelry store in Far Rockaway, Queens, the police said.
The looters were gone by the time Fernando Batista, the owner of the Associated Supermarket at 938 East 163rd Street in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx, arrived at the store on Friday morning. Mr. Batista, 60, whose pricier merchandise includes $5 jars of baby food, said there was a gaping hole in the roof. What had not been stolen was destroyed, he said, down to the eggs broken all over the floor. 
"They took all the baby merchandise, all the Pampers, all the baby formula," Mr. Batista said. "They broke my A.T.M. They took all my pharmaceuticals. They tried to break into the safe, and actually ruined it. They broke the cash registers, and they took all the overflow money in the office."
He, too, said the store was equipped with an alarm knocked out by the blackout. Mr. Batista estimated his cash losses at less than $10,000, but the broken equipment and inventory losses amounted to about $40,000, he said. The thieves had jumped through from the hole in the roof onto his dairy cooler, he said, denting it perhaps beyond repair. 
On the next block of 163d Street, would-be intruders were not so lucky. They managed only to damage the gate at Slam Dunk, a sports clothing store, before something scared them off, said an employee, Drame Moussa. "A policeman called the boss to let him know they tried to rob the store," Mr. Moussa said. "They said it was like 50 people, a lot of people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Batista, owner of an Associated Supermarket in Hunts Point, under the hole where looters entered. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); ARRESTS (89%); HOME SECURITY (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (77%); BURGLARY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); JUVENILE CRIME (67%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Security and Warning Systems; Jewels and Jewelry; Food; Electric Appliances; Looting; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: Michael Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



412 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Street Smart And Built to a 'T' 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
TO the non-devotee who spots one, street rods are a diversion, a bit of whimsy on the blacktop. But to the owners devoted to these candy-colored, big-tired vehicles, they are a hobby that becomes a way of life. 
 Perhaps no one better understands the obsession than Mickey Lauria, a Wallingford businessman whose shop is known world wide for making "T-buckets" and selling the kits. 
 You may have seen a T-bucket; it looks like a Model T in the hands of a cartoonist. Men and women of a certain age caught their first glimpse of one on "77 Sunset Strip," the 1950's television show set in California featuring a character named Kookie. This may explain the strong dash of dune buggy in the car's design. 
Although the cars inspire serious devotion, their design says fun. People who buy customized assembled cars or make them from a kit aren't looking for transportation.
"It's an impulse buy," said Mr. Lauria, whose shop, Total Performance Inc., also makes other model replicas of cars from bygone eras. "You don't need one. You just want one."
For 31 years, Mr. Lauria has provided the means for indulgence, first selling parts for people restoring their own carsout of a shop in North Haven before moving to Wallingford and selling assembled cars, or the kits to make them. Last year, sales were "in the millions," he said.
Seventy percent of his customers assemble their own cars. The assembly manual is 134 pages long, but Mr. Lauria insists the car can be put together in a weekend (clearly by those adults whose childhood featured model-building rather than say, Hula-Hooping).
Ron Wcislo, a 50-year-old who worked in a Fairfield factory until his recent retirement, is one of Mr. Lauria's customers. He owns a T-bucket that he built for $12,000 and is now selling. He also owns a 1932 Model B coupe that has been featured in industry magazines.
The cars, he said, rarely fail to elicit smiles and thumbs-up signs from other drivers. He drives his car in parades and shows like the National Street Rod Association Show in Louisville, Ky., an event that draws 12,000 cars. Owning one, the Stratford resident said, means being part of a club.
"The camaraderie between street rodders is just great," he said. "If I'm on the road and someone needs help, I'll stop even if I have to turn around 20 miles to the next exit and they'd do the same for me."
Many of Mr. Lauria's customers travel to cruise nights at places like Bethel's Sycamore Drive-In, the Heavenly Donut in Seymour and the Mohegan Sun Casino. 
T-buckets may look as though they should be screaming down a race track, but appearances can be deceiving. These street rods are the vehicular equivalent of a silver tea service, polished to perfection but not for every day use. Owners favor sunny, dry conditions. They steer clear of busy parking lots and shun water like a cat. Because?
"Who wants to wash the thing?" Mr. Lauria said. "It takes a long time." An hour or two? "Try five or six." That's with the Q-tips for hard to reach places, air hoses to blow away dust, and hand-cleaning the engine. The bodies are molded Fiberglass. On certain models, the doors deliberately don't open necessitating a youthful hop to gain access. 
These days, Mr. Lauria ships and sells cars to such far-flung places as Malaysia, Japan and Amsterdam or just around the corner in Wallingford. His shop employs 22 people and is 8,000 square feet. He said he wants more space to expand the research and development aspect of the business. 
Dressed in a sweatshirt, jeans and cowboy boots, a cigarette never out of reach, Mr. Lauria, 62, would not be out of place working a wrench under the hood. Yet business keeps him more on the phone fielding orders or at the computer, checking his company's Web site, the one that enables you to build the car you might buy from him online, registering the price with each extra feature to complete a kit.
Routinely featured in auto magazines, Total Performance was also written up in People, Playboy and Penthouse magazines as well as showcased on television, Mr. Lauria said. 
He reports that hot rods (those vehicles used for racing and are not street legal) and street rods have "gone legit," and points out the name "hot rod" can be found in Webster's Dictionary. The street rod evolved because some drivers yearned for a legal hot rod.
"People said, 'I want a hot rod I can drive from point A to point B and go to a car show,"' Mr. Lauria said.
Hobbyist of all stripes won't be surprised to learn the cars are not inexpensive. The basic T-bucket kit of a basic chassis and body costs almost $4,000, but a kit-built car could easily cost between $25,000 and $35,000. A replica of a Model A or B costs as much as $50,000 complete.
Customers are an economicallydiverse group and mostly male, but women are becoming more frequent buyers. Ten years ago, two of Mr. Lauria's three daughters, Gina and Lisa, drove a T-bucket across the country to promote the business and "also for fun." Today his three young grandsons are frequent visitors to the shop.
Dave Goduti said it was assembling the car with his 17-year-old son that he most enjoyed. Mr. Goduti and David Jr., who live in Wallingford, built a Total T-bucket, bright yellow with white leather interior.
Mr. Goduti, a computer technician and his wife, Chicky, drive the car to cruise nights or shows, places they used to go as a family when the children were little, and talk with other owners. Street-rod owners are down to earth, he said, adding that something about the cars makes owners forget their differences.
"I guess it just brings out the good in people," he said. "It's your own creation. You put your own personality into it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From top: Melissa Goduti sitting in a 1923 Total T-bucket, as her father, David Goduti, right, and Mickey Lauria looked on; Mr. Lauria with a 2003 Model T replica; a Weber induction carburetor of a hot rod that is still a work in progress; the interior of the 1923 T-bucket, which Mr. Goduti built with his 17-year-old son. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%) Automobiles; Models and Replicas

COMPANY: PERFORMANCE INC (69%); MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Total Performance Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (69%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: Mickey Lauria; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (70%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



413 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Arts Institutions Suffer Growing Pains 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
ONLY two years ago, three major Hartford cultural institutions had big plans for renovation and expansion projects involving superstar architects. But two of the three projects -- at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art and the Connecticut Historical Society -- have been canceled, victims of a lackluster economy and the leadership's second-guessing of the original plans. Directors at the institutions say some form of renovation and expansion will go forward, but no specific plans have been made.
 The construction of a visitors center at the Mark Twain House, where the writer lived in the late 19th century, will be finished in November. Work on the grounds and renovation of other buildings on the premises must still be done. 
 The Wadsworth, founded in 1842, is the nation's oldest public art museum. It has the world's largest collection of Hudson River Schools paintings as well as holdings ranging from Old Master works to Sevres porcelain to Picasso paintings. 
In February 2001, the board choose an architect for its expansion and renovation: UN Studio, a Dutch architectural firm whose principal, Ben van Berkel, later became a finalist in the competition to rebuild the World Trade Center. Maya Lin, the Yale-trained artist and architect whose best-known work is the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, was enlisted to create a public art work on Main Street as part of the project.
The architectural plan was daring. It moved the museum's entrance from the crenellated facade on Main Street, steps from a bus stop where the city's working poor cluster for transportation, around the corner, across from an insurance company tower. Two spiraling staircases were to lead to new galleries.
The plan provided for an enclosed glass-walled concourse to span the entire museum, which consists of five contiguous buildings, each in different styles. A new cafe was to be built across from Hartford City Hall. A faceted, part-translucent, sky-lighted roof was to cover the whole structure.
The construction would have closed the Wadsworth for two years. An involved process of loaning art to other museums was begun.
Although some locals criticized the plan, it had plenty of support, particularly from the museum's then director, Kate M. Sellers, and the board, which consisted of some of the state's wealthiest and most influential people. Among them was its chairman, George David, chief executive officer of United Technologies Corporation.
About $62 million was raised. The amount was more than half the $120 million cost of the total project; $80 million was targeted for construction and $40 million budgeted for operating expenses and endowment. But Ms. Sellers resigned last October. Shortly after, infighting amongst board members led to the resignations of Mr. David and five other members.
Still, it appeared that the project would go forward.
But between January and March, while the board searched for a new director, it stopped making further commitments to the project, said the man ultimately chosen for the job, Willard Holmes, the former deputy director of the Whitney Museum of American Art. When Mr. Holmes was selected, in March, he expressed reservations about the plan, especially the closing of the museum during construction.
In an interview from Vienna where he is on vacation, Mr. Holmes, 54, said the board was reassessing the original plan in light of the fragile economy and the departures of board members, as well as staff members. It might be a better idea, he said, to "put less money into bricks and mortar and more into endowment."
He said the board was reconsidering whether the original plan was financially viable or adequately addressed space needs. He said he would not support any plan that closed the museum. Mr. Holmes dismissed the notion, proffered by naysayers, that the original proposal was overreaching for the Wadsworth and Hartford.
"It's certainly not being reconsidered because it is too ambitious," he said. "I didn't come to Hartford to be second rate." 
Meanwhile, the delay in the Wadsworth project comes when Adriaen's Landing, a $700 million hotel convention center, is under construction downtown. The Wadsworth is considered the gateway to the new center, which city and state officials hope will revitalize Hartford, Connecticut's poorest city.

A History Center
The historical society's project would have reinvented the hushed institution, which sits on a leafy street next to the University of Connecticut School of Law. The plan called for construction of a 115,000-square-foot interactive center for state history, near Trinity College. Frank Gehry, the architect noted for his curvilinear, titanium-swathed buildings, was paid $250,000 to produce a conceptual design, said the society's director, David M. Kahn.
The project was expected to solve the society's space problems; its holdings include three million documents and 30,000 objects, including the flag grasped by President Lincoln when he was assassinated. Society officials estimated the new center would cost $50 million to build, but would attract more than triple the number of visitors, currently 30,000 a year.
The plan had the support of Evan Dobelle, the dynamic former president of Trinity, who was trying to revitalize the college's neighborhood, which has long been besieged by crime and poverty. 
The idea was that the history center would be built in Rocky Ridge Park, on 13 acres of city-owned land.
Problems obtaining this land were surmounted. But then, in June 2001, Mr. Dobelle left Trinity to become president of the University of Hawaii. Mr. Kahn has identified Mr. Dobelle and Trinity as important partners in raising money for the history center. By early this month, the project's future was in doubt. The society is in transition, Mr. Kahn said in a telephone interview, declining to specifically discuss future plans. But, he added, "It is conceivable the location of the history center will change."
The architect could change as well, he said. A spokesman for Mr. Gehry's California firm said in an e-mail message, "We're not currently involved with the project in any way." 
So far, the society has raised $8 million for the new center; officials plan to announce a capital campaign. The group will also change its official name this fall, to the Connecticut Historical Society Museum, a switch suggested by consultants.
"We've learned historical societies do not resonate with consumers," said Aaron J. Wartner, the society's communications director.
Mr. Kahn said that before embarking on construction of the center, the society planned to formalize partnerships with other area historical institutions. He gave one example, Hartford's Old State House. He also said the society was continuing to study what a history center should be.
"We continue to work on different aspects of the undertaking," said Mr. Kahn, who listed a dozen other history centers built or under construction around the nation. "The Connecticut Historical Society can certainly scale up."

One Success
Dirt crumbles like cake underfoot around the hillside site for the Twain house's new visitors center, which is surrounded by fences. The center is between a former carriage house on the grounds and Hartford Public High School. The Twain house sits in a neighborhood once known as Nook Farm, a literary enclave that included the homes of Twain and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Construction began in April on the center, which will cost $16.5 million. So far, $20 million in a $30 million capital campaign has been raised, almost half from public sources. 
Beyond the money for the center, the Twain board wants to add to its endowment, and complete three restoration projects: the servant's wing of the main house, the ground floor of the carriage house, and the grounds.
The new building will be 35,000 square feet, and was designed by Robert A.M. Stern, dean of the architecture school at Yale. It includes two galleries, a lecture hall, classrooms, a cafe and a gift shop.
Twain, whose contributions to American literature include "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" and "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," moved to the house in 1874. He hired Louis Comfort Tiffany to design the lavish interiors. But he would surely empathize with the budget constraints facing Hartford's cultural directors. He moved from his beloved homestead in 1891; he could no longer afford it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction is under way at the Mark Twain House in Hartford. A new visitors center, designed by Robert A.M. Stern, will open in November. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Leaders of the Wadsworth Atheneum and the Connecticut Historical Society, left, are rethinking their ambitious expansion plans. The society is in transition, said its director, David M. Kahn, far left. Below, the architectural model for the Wadsworth project. Construction of the Mark Twain visitors center, far left, below, is proceeding as planned. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VETERANS (65%); RESIGNATIONS (60%) Art; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Mark Twain House (Hartford, Conn)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (91%); WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (84%) Wadsworth Atheneum (Hartford, Conn); Connecticut Historical Society

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE DAVID (61%) Stacey Stowe; Samuel Langhorne (Mark Twain) (1835-1910) Clemens

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hartford (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



414 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: LOOKING BACK; 
In Calm Blackout, Views of Remade City

BYLINE:  By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
When the lights went out on Thursday, Imani Kuumba was in an eyeglass shop on 116th Street in Harlem. She was also in a very different New York from the one she lived in when the last major blackout in 1977 turned her South Bronx neighborhood into a harrowing zone of plunder and mayhem.
 In 1977, "it was complete chaos, just total chaos," Ms. Kuumba recalled. "They grabbed the flashlights and started looting." This time, the eyeglass-store owner and the other shopkeepers along 116th Street quickly ushered their customers onto the street and pulled down their iron gates. 
 The police showed up so fast, she said, "it was like they knew beforehand this was going to happen." And through the night, "the people took it in stride," she said. "They barbecued in the dark. They sang. They were listening to KISS and partying. I think they felt that this was just another event, something that occurs in New York, and it would be over soon." 
Tall buildings have crumbled in New York since the last blackout. Drug scourges have come and gone. The economy has boomed and flattened and struggled to boom again. Millions of people have moved out and in and changed the face of the city forever. 
Through it all, though, the blackout as metaphor for the civic psyche appears to have survived. And this time, Kenneth T. Jackson, the president of the New-York Historical Society, says he thinks it may be saying, "This is a city that seems to be under control."
In 1977, New York had reached an arson-scarred, drug-infested, economically challenged nadir. The blackout looting then was breathtakingly panoramic, often against a background of rock-throwing and flames. Today, the first snap of a blackout easily awakens fears of terrorist attacks. But this notwithstanding, Mr. Jackson said, "when we think of the city we think of theordered city."
The reasons for this are writ large -- a crime rate that in a development no one in 1977 would have been foolish enough to predict has plummeted to its lowest point in decades, with a third the murders of 1977; an economy that even after more than two years of trouble provides 600,000 more jobs than that of '77; and a population that thanks largely to a continuing transfusion of immigrants by the thousands tops eight million, or about a million more than at the time of the last blackout.
But the reasons are also writ small, in commonplaces of New York life that would have been unthinkable in 1977. For one thing, you can smell the roses, or at least the city parks' more varied assortment of flowers.
In innumerable locations they sprout unencumbered by the chicken wire that used to protect them from flower thieves, when they were grown at all.
In a growing number of neighborhoods, security-relaxed shopkeepers are not bothering to install the metal grating that has been a fixture of the urban street scene since the 60's.
In the subways, when a train bears the number 2 or the letter D, you can take it at its word. And when neighborhoods undergo change, it is often upward, at least economically. In the new hit musical "Avenue Q," a couple decide to leave their funky-with-good-feeling block for a fancier clime -- the Lower East Side, which may never before have been such an object of aspiration.
Thus, the near lack of untoward incidents during this blackout may reflect a lot. 
"We have worked over the years to build an infrastructure to protect this city, and provide services," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said on his weekly radio program Friday morning. "Most of the time most of the things really do work, and that's why last night will go down as a safe night in New York City, a night where people got along."
Compared with 1977, he said, "I think you can make the case that people in New York City are happier, get along better, cooperate with one another." 
Those sentiments are widely shared, and for no small reason. The decade of the 70's was the time of the city's greatest population loss -- "the arch decade of white flight," in the words of John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University Graduate Center, and also the first decade in which black and Puerto Rican middle-class families left the city along with whites.
A poll taken by The New York Times and CBS News just after the '77 blackout yielded this headline: "Nationwide Poll Finds 6% Think New York Is a Good Place to Live."
That was before an influx of young artists and professionals pushed the borders of gentrifying New York not only to the far eastern reaches of the Lower East Side, but also across the East River to such nonbrownstone Brooklyn neighborhoods as Williamsburg and even parts of Bushwick, the impoverished community most ravished during the last blackout.
At the time of the '77 blackout, the city routinely held auctions of the thousands of abandoned buildings and empty lots that it had seized in tax foreclosures. It was not unusual for an empty building in Bushwick or another poor neighborhood to sell for $25, to whoever wanted to take on the ultimate handyman's special in the company of packs of wild dogs.
Today, a growing working-class cluster of Ecuadoreans and other new immigrants are filling many of Bushwick's weathered three-story wood-frame homes, and Bushwick Avenue, in its heyday known as "Doctors' Row" for the occupants of its handsome brownstones, is beginning to buzz again. 
Meanwhile, houses and co-ops in the city's wealthier neighborhoods, along with those around the region, have risen more in value than homes in virtually any other part of the country. Last year, the city issued more permits to build single-family homes than in any year since 1985, although the long-term effect of steep property tax increases that went into effect in the city this year remains to be seen. 
That building boom has done much to account for a doubling in construction jobs since 1977 to more than 120,000. 
Tourism, which drew fewer than 17 million people to the city in 1977, is expected to attract twice that many this year, something that helped increase the number of service jobs in the city since '77 by well over half a million. 
The quiet of Thursday's blackout may well have little to do with any of this. The '77 blackout struck about 9:30 p.m. during a nasty heat wave, but this one came shortly after 4 p.m., with hours of daylight remaining. The Police Department -- with near-record numbers of officers -- had a chance to mobilize a visible presence in almost every corner of the city. By night, a cool breeze accompanied the dark.
Still, Dick Netzer, a professor emeritus at New York University's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, said there was more to the calm than this. "I think it's a consequence of a much greater sense of some kind of empathy among New Yorkers for each other," he said, "and a sense that criminal acts are really wrong. I think there's a building sense of civility. It's such a difference."
He credited this to a generally prosperous decade, a tough policing policy developed during the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and "the social bonds coming out of 9/11." 
From the streets of poorer neighborhoods, even those like Harlem, which are now home to touchstones of prosperity like Old Navy and Starbucks, other reasons are offered for the peace. Among them are an overwhelming, debilitating poverty that has outlasted a near decade of prosperity, and Mr. Giuliani's extraordinarily successful campaign to cut welfare rolls, which have fallen by more than 50 percent from their 1977 totals of close to a million. 
"People are becoming accustomed to not having," said Ms. Kuumba, an administrative assistant with the city's Office of Children and Family Services. "They don't have it; the city's not giving it to them anymore; they're not going to have it and they never will. So come what may. There's just complacency."
The 2000 census, according to Professor Mollenkopf, counted 1.7 million New Yorkers living below the poverty line, which at the time was defined as an annual income of $17,603 for a family of four. Of these, a million were subsisting on half that or less, which Professor Mollenkopf said "is just about destitution, I would say." 
But in the new New York, even poverty has a different face. The huge population drop in the 70's -- an estimated 440,000 from the start of the decade until the '77 blackout -- left neighborhoods empty, burning and occupied in good numbers by people who did not have the wherewithal to get out. Along with the many struggling to hold things together, there were also the ranks of the looters who took over the streets of so many communities on the evening of July 13. 
Some streets, in neighborhoods like Brownsville in Brooklyn, can still take on that feel. But on most others, like many of those in Bushwick, immigration has brought variety, dogged hope and a feeling of greater safety. "If you compare New York's poorest neighborhoods with neighborhoods in cities like Detroit andChicago, they're not depopulating by and large," said Philip Kasinitz, chairman of the sociology department at the City University Graduate Center. "It means that even the poorest neighborhoods basically have a critical mass not just for city services, but for basic retailing."
From their windows, those people watch the street for trouble, and this, to some degree, helps crime fall. On Thursday night, Professor Kasinitz said, "people felt comfortable being out on the street." 
"Not just the young people drinking and looking for trouble," he said. "They were out, but so were a lot of others."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looters in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn running down Broadway during the 1977 blackout. (Photo by Tyrone Dukes/The New York Times); People took ice to elderly relatives on Friday afternoon at the 17-story Mitchell Houses in the South Bronx. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 30) Chart: "Lights Out, Now and Then"How this blackout compares with the two previous major ones. 1965TUESDAY, NOV. 9 -- 5:16 p.m.How long: Up to 13 hoursLoad lost: 20,000 megawattsWhat failed: The electrical grids had become increasingly interconnected to meet growing demand for power. A single relay near Niagara Falls malfunctioned, causing a critical overload that cascaded across neighboring points on the grid. 1977WEDNESDAY, JULY 13 -- 9:34 p.m.How long: Up to 26 hoursLoad lost: 6,000 megawattsWhat failed: After 1965, measures were in place to allow neighboring power grids to disconnect. After lightning shut down the transmission corridor to New York City, other systems disconnected. New York's generation alone was not adequate to meet demand. 2003THURSDAY, AUG.14 -- 4:11 p.m.How long: Within 44 hours, power had been largely restoredLoad lost: 62,000 megawattsWhat failed: An enormous reversal of the power flow in the Midwest overloaded one or more power lines, taking them out of service. Parallel lines became overloaded and 100 power plants soon shut themselves down. The series of events occurred within about five minutes. (Sources by James T. Sparrow, director, Blackout History Project, Center for History & New Media, George Mason University; Prof. Richard Hirsh, History of Technology and Science & Technology Studies, Department of History,Virginia Tech; North American Electric Reliability Council)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); CRIME RATES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); TRENDS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); ARSON (63%); TERRORISM (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: Martin Gottlieb

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



415 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: THE OVERVIEW; 
POWER RESTORED TO MIDWEST CITIES; PROBLEMS LINGER

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN and DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Electric power was restored overnight and early this morning here in the last major metropolitan area to recover from the worst blackout in the nation's history, which left millions of people in the Northeast, the Midwest and parts of Canada sweating in the dark for up to two days.
 New York City's recovery from the short crisis leapt forward this morning with the revival of subway service to all five boroughs. "All New York City Transit subways are running on or close to schedule," the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced in a recorded message. 
 In Cleveland, city officials said water service as well as electricity were back up and running for 1.5 million people in northern Ohio, but city beaches along Lake Erie were closed because of a sewage backup caused by a shutdown at the treatment plant.
In Canada, Toronto and the rest of Ontario returned to near normal today, though with only 70 percent of its power capacity on line. Officials warned that there would be rolling blackouts for several more days to spread the load. 
Here in Detroit, an exultant Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick celebrated a second night free of looting and violence, as residents awoke to find refrigerators humming and fans spinning, two days earlier than expected. The main utility company, DTE Energy, said that all of its 2.1 million customers in southeast Michigan had power before dawn and that any remaining spotty power failures were due to routine problems, not the blackout.
Water remained scarce, however, as the vast system struggled to fill its pipes, and officials warned residents to continue boiling it before drinking or cooking, perhaps until Wednesday. Restaurants in suburban Macomb County were barred from opening today because of the water alert, though officials in other areas simply exhorted owners to boil all water used in cooking. 
There were a record 572 calls for emergency medical services overnight, most of them for people needing to refill oxygen tanks, but just 17 felony arrests, fewer than on a typical summer weekend. 
"Detroit is the model of the nation," Mr. Kilpatrick, who has struggled since he took office in 2002 to rehabilitate the reputation of a city known for crime and poverty, said at an 11 a.m. news conference on the steps of the police headquarters downtown. "This was the calmest city of all the cities that have been hit by this crisis. I believe Detroit now is a shining example of what can happen when all pull together."
Not yet 48 hours since the blackout, energy deregulation had already become the main focus of a previously scheduled National Governors Association meeting in Indianapolis, while utility executives and public officials continued to investigate and debate its causes.
In New York, where the lights went out on Broadway and everywhere else Thursday afternoon, all electricity was restored by 9:03 p.m. Friday, according to Consolidated Edison. The City Council estimated that the blackout would cost the city as much as $40 million in sales and income tax revenue, and that residents' collective income would drop at least $500 million because of decreased economic activity.
The return of subway and bus service, which carries seven million passengers on a normal weekday, was welcomed in a city where hundreds of thousands of people had been forced to camp out in Manhattan or take very long walks home on Thursday night.
Tito Montijo, 22, a handyman in an Upper East Side building, spent the blackout at work. Yesterday he was waiting for the A train at the West Fourth Street station, to go home and see his family for the first time since Thursday morning.
"I'm very happy the trains are running because I can go back to my wife and little ones," Mr. Montijo said.
In Detroit, as public officials declared the crisis over and excited residents snapped on lights and air-conditioners, the chief executive of DTE Energy, urged moderation, warning that the utility might not have enough power to meet demand.
The executive, Anthony F. Earley, suggested that appliances like air-conditioners, washing machines and pool filters not be used at least one more day, and said there would be rolling blackouts if customers did not continue conserving energy. "We are very tight," he said.
Later in the day, a utility spokesman, Len Singer, said that the demand had peaked at 3 p.m. at about 8,000 watts -- less than normal -- and that the system had been able to handle it without the use of rolling blackouts. Sunday is typically the lowest day of demand, and the utility said it was on track for normal operations by Monday.
The city of one million residents slowly blinked back to life overnight, after 36 hours of darkened, empty streets downtown and impromptu neighborhood barbecue parties in the sprawling neighborhoods. 
By midnight, 95 percent of the traffic lights were working normally, no longer flashing red. At 3:30 a.m., the buses began running, with special free service through Sunday night. The People Mover that ferries tourists and residents among downtown hotels and office buildings revved up at 10. 
"The whole block was screaming," Mary Moss, 53, said of the moment the power came back to her neighborhood in Northeast Detroit, "but I was in the house saying 'Thank you, Jesus.' "
Lawrence Birchfield, 55, a retired auto worker, heard his refrigerator rumble about 11 p.m. Friday.
"The first thing I did, I had a beer, I sure did," he said. "The second thing I did was take a shower." The third thing, Mr. Birchfield said, was to watch the ABC News program "Nightline," where talk of the blackout scared him more than did his own experience. 
"I'm going to go out and buy a radio with batteries and oil lamps," he said. "This could happen again."
By this morning, the serpentine lines at gas stations had disappeared, as the neon signs of fast-food restaurants flashed familiarly, and the cash registers at convenience stores rang anew. 
"It's really nice to have McDonald's open again," said Victor White, 74, a retired construction worker who has lived in Detroit for half a century, unfazed by the lack of coffee because of the water shortage. "This is where I have my breakfast every morning."
Mr. White said he was surprised the city had remained so calm. "It wasn't scary at all. Most people connected more than before, door to door, neighbor to neighbor. When the lights were on, nobody says nothing."
At 9:30 a.m., Tamara Thomas was already at C & B Beauty Supply, preparing for a salon appointment that was canceled yesterday, and a wedding this afternoon.
"I'm getting my hair done today," said Ms. Thomas, 25.
"And watching cartoons," interrupted her 6-year-old son, Brian, upset that he had missed even one episode of "Teen Titans."
The MGM Grand casino, which closed during the blackout for the first time since its July 1999 opening, had its 2,692 slot machines back on by 8 a.m., their bells ringing like clashing xylophones. 
"On a Friday, we have as many as 12,000 people," said J. D. Clayton, executive vice president of the casino. "We're happy to see them back."
Though the weekend's African cultural festival was canceled, the city zoo opened this morning as usual, along with the Michigan State Fair, whose Friday kickoff at the Detroit fairgrounds was postponed a day. In the suburbs, the Woodward Dream Cruise, a classic-car parade expected to bring two million people and millions of dollars to the region, was slowed but not stopped during the blackout, and was expected to return to full speed now that the traffic lights are back along the 16-mile route.
"Much in the same way that you can't cancel Christmas, we came to the conclusion that you can't cancel the cruise," said Bill Urich, the mayor of Royal Oak, a suburb two miles north of Detroit. "We're advising people to bring their own food and water, bring cash, bring a full tank of gas, to bring a lot of patience."
Even as the city delighted in its lamps, televisions, computers and other electronic devices, people continued to struggle with the shortage of water. Mr. Kilpatrick said this morning that 750 million gallons of water were pumping through the system, which normally carries 900 million, and that it would take awhile for the pipes to refill.
At the Detroit municipal airport, where the National Guard parked four 400-gallon tanks known as water buffaloes, hundreds flocked overnight carrying pitchers, buckets, coolers and even empty two-liter soda bottles. 
"When I got there it was so crowded I couldn't get any, it was crazy," said Natasha Dillard, 26, a waitress, who let her children, ages 3 and 5, use a dab from the sink to brush their teeth, a daily ritual they love. "They were outside playing. They kept saying they wanted water. It was terrible."
Ms. Dillard, who also works at Comerica Park, was suffering, too, from the cancellation of the big Aerosmith concert there Friday night. "I was planning on making $150 to $200," she said. 
 At a nearby CVS drugstore, Hosea Taylor, a retired music teacher, was buying five gallons of Poland Spring water. "For my cooking -- I didn't want to keep boiling it all," he explained. "I've been using Listerine to brush my teeth."
Mr. Taylor, 70, who got stuck in the subway during the 1965 blackout in New York, said he had learned from that experience not to panic, and had used the blackout to practice his saxophone, flute and clarinet. Fifty years after graduating from the University of Michigan, he said, he can still play the fight song on all three.
Though Detroit trailed the other blacked-out cities in the Northeast and Midwest in having its power restored, city officials said it had given them the opportunity to test the emergency operations systems, as well as the ability of citizens to pull together to improve not only the city's image but also the quality of life in its neighborhoods.
At what he said would be his final briefing on the blackout, Mr. Kilpatrick urged residents to continue conserving water and energy until both systems return to capacity.
"Get out of your house, go play, have fun -- we cannot have everybody overloading the system at once," he said. "If you are staying home, open your windows, spend some time outside." 
"Everyone is out today cleaning up the city for you," he added. "Go ahead and enjoy the parks. Just don't drink the water at the fountains."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miguel Avina of Detroit, who had run out of gas while waiting to buy some, pushed his minivan on Friday. (Photo by J. Kyle Keener/Detroit Free Press); Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick said he was "so proud" of Detroit. (Photo by Associated Press); Shelves were empty in a supermarket near Detroit yesterday after the blackout led to a high demand for beverages. With the power back on, city water was gradually returning, but residents were urged to boil it before use. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. 28); Laura Giovanetti of Lake Como, Italy, with a souvenir of the blackout being sold yesterday in Manhattan. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times); New York City's return to normal took a big leap forward yesterday when subway service was fully restored. Riders waited at 8:30 a.m. in Manhattan. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (96%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (79%); HISTORY (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BEACHES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); LAKES (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); ARRESTS (61%); FELONIES (61%); GOVERNORS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Electric Light and Power; Water

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); DTE ENERGY CO (55%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); DTE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%)

PERSON: Jodi Wilgoren; Danny Hakim; Kwame M (Mayor) Kilpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); LAKE ERIE (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%) Northeastern States (US); Ontario (Canada); Toronto (Ontario); New York City; Cleveland (Ohio); Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



416 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: For Many, Full-Time Work Means Part-Time Benefits 

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
LIKE many new college graduates, Kellie Lee was thrilled when she finally got a serious job. It was actually her dream job, a position as an admissions counselor at an acting school and career center in Longwood, Fla. 
 "The owner had the most wonderful spirit," said Ms. Lee, 23, who lives in Orlando. 
 She quit three days later -- after she was told she would not be given any benefits by Ashley Camille's Modeling, Acting and Career Center, even though she was a full-time employee. 
"When I asked about benefits she said we would talk about the logistics when I got there," said Ms. Lee. "I expected to get them. If you're doing your job for the company, I feel that it's acceptable to ask for benefits." She added: "Healthcare, 401(k) -- I see what my parents are dealing with and they're stressed out over whether Social Security is going to exist for them. It's scary."
The school disputed Ms. Lee's account. Sonya Callender, the head of the school, said that it first gives benefits after employees have worked six months.
Growing numbers of job applicants are finding that positions with benefits are scarce. And unlike Ms. Lee, many young college graduates -- and even some older workers wishing to make career changes -- are taking jobs without health insurance or retirement plans because, they say, they cannot find anything with more security.
Andrew Nolin, 23, is another new employee without benefits. He took a full-time job last year at the Microtel Inns and Suites in Seneca Falls, N.Y., as a night auditor. He does not receive health or retirement benefits, he said. But, he added, "I had been looking for a job for a while and that was the first one that hired me." He said he has one more year before he will be removed from his parents' policy. After that, he doesn't know what he will do. "I am kind of worried, that's why I'm looking for another job right now," he said. "Hopefully, I won't get sick."
Employers say they are not happy to be cutting back on benefits. But faced with a sluggish economy and rising health care costs, they say they have little choice but to slash benefits packages, whether that means requiring a waiting period before benefits kick in, or offering no benefits at all.
Few employers were willing to speak publicly about any cutbacks they are making in employee benefits. But Bob Schleizer, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Xponential Inc., which runs a chain of 26 pawnshops in the Southeast, said his company had pared back. 
In the past, the company offered full benefits for full-time employees, plus stock options. But in 2001, the company went through financial difficulties, and last year the package changed. "We no longer offer benefits to anyone except full-time managerial staff," said Mr. Schleizer, who came as a turnaround specialist from Tatum CFO Partners. "Out of our 180 employees, only 40 are eligible for benefits." To partly offset the change, the company increased pay by about 50 cents an hour for employees no longer receiving benefits. 
Steven Rothberg, president and founder of CollegeRecruiter.com, in Minneapolis, said: "It's not a new strategy, but it's one that when the labor market is strong it wasn't used very much because in order to attract talented people, employees had to provide benefits. Now we're back to the old way, to a more traditional employment model: the power rests with the employer."
In the past, most companies offered benefits to their full-time, permanent employees, and it was only part-time workers or outside contractors who would be excluded. "Companies used to staff with freelancers who are flexible but don't get benefits," said Sara Horowitz, the founder of Working Today, which offers inexpensive insurance plans for freelancers and other independent contractors. "Now, companies are scaling back their benefits for their permanent work force making the distinction between freelancers and employees, in effect, meaningless." 
Still, many young people, at least, say they are not especially concerned by the shift. "One of the challenges if you're hiring entry-level folks, Generation X types, is they think they're going to live forever," said John W. Robinson IV, an employment lawyer with Fowler White Boggs Banker, a firm in Tampa, Fla. "They're not interested in a pension or even a substantial medical plan. They'd rather have cash."
"In our law firm, it wasn't as critical to entry level lawyers to get pension and other fringe benefits as it was to just get cash, in part because they had to pay student loans from school and law school," he said. "They said they would worry about pensions in 40 years."
That is how Kevin Lister feels. He was hired a year and half ago, when he was 25, at Mindbridge Software, outside of Philadelphia. Six months after he started working there he was given benefits. "I was unemployed for three or four months before I got the job and I was just happy to work," said Mr. Lister, who is now a sales executive there. "My mother was worried that I didn't get benefits, but that's her being a mother. I was just in a bad situation at that time -- I needed to get a job. Every job that I talked to there was a minimum of three months to get benefits anyway."
Scott Testa, the director of human resources at Mindbridge, said the 120-person software company generally hires employees right out of college without offering them benefits when they start.
"It sounds terrible, but it's kind of like a supply and demand," he said. Employees undergo a probationary period for six to nine months. After that, the company evaluates them, he said. "Benefits are expensive to the company and to the new hires benefits weren't important -- it was more important getting a job with a new company in a good industry," he said.
Job seekers determined to get benefits are most likely to find them at large companies. According to a 2002 study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 99 percent of large companies, defined as those with 200 or more employees, offer health benefits. (A percentage unchanged from the year before.)
Only 61 percent of firms with 3 to 199 employees offered benefits in 2002, down from 67 percent in 2000. And a 2003 study by the Employer Benefit Research Institute found that 58 percent of full-time employees in medium to large businesses -- over 100 employees -- participate in an employee based retirement plan, compared with only 27.8 percent of small firms.
"Smaller firms have a hard time because of the rising costs of health care," said Carol Lachnit, the editor of Workforce Management, a magazine in Costa Mesa, Calif., about employment issues. "Bigger firms realize that you get better employees when you can offer them a more comprehensive package of salary and benefits, and it's important to them to make those benefits available to employees."
Some companies increase salaries "in an effort to soften the blow," said Robert Kneip, president and chief executive of the Oasis Group, a company in West Palm Beach, Fla., that provides professional services such as benefits management to other companies. "A lot of employees these days are making their own risk-benefit decisions -- do I really need benefits or is that as important to me as a higher wage or job flexibility? More companies are evaluating the costs of benefits and are being forced to cut back or eliminate their benefits programs."
"Firms don't like to eliminate benefits programs," he added. "I don't know of anybody who has happily or gladly or willingly cut back on benefits. It's a real unfortunate economic imperative."
Ms. Lee, for one, has not devised a plan for obtaining benefits once they run out; for now, she is on her parents' health insurance policy. "I am hoping to be a student forever so I'll get insurance," she said. "Otherwise, I don't know what I'll do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Lister, an account executive at Mindbridge, a software company outside of Philadelphia, had to wait six months before employee benefits kicked in. (Photo by Sal DeMarco Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HOTEL CHAINS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%) Labor; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



417 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Miami and Ohio State Deserved Each Other

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
WITH the college football season beginning this week, here is a promise: You will never again hear criticism from me about the Bowl Championship Series.
 I used to get all worked up when they discarded the traditional system of voting for a national champion after the major bowl games had been played. 
 My theory was: if it ain't broke, don't fix it. But they tinkered with it, and last season they came up with Miami and Ohio State. Perfect. 
The two teams played far into the night, going into double overtime in the Fiesta Bowl, before Ohio State finally won. Both universities showed they were masters of brutal power sweeps and intense masterminding -- and not just on the field.
In the months to come, Miami would throw at least two conferences into turmoil by pursuing even more dollars, while Ohio State would coddle its star running back, who then got into trouble off the field.
The B.C.S. produced two ultimate representatives of big-time college sports -- not that fans really want to fret about loyalty and ethics and academic purity.
After all, professional sports work just fine without paying lip service to such niceties.
Unfortunately, college football works us over with the aura of handsome old quadrangles, stacks of books, real students bustling to class. It trots out the odd physics major-linebacker with the 4.0 grade point average and intones the phrase "student-athlete" with smarmy regularity. So we tend to hold college football to its own standard. 
Then a Maryland football assistant is dismissed for handing over cash to a recruit, and they want us to believe this was some isolated act by a renegade, now unemployed. And in the wake of the terrible tragedy at Baylor, in which one basketball player is accused of killing another, the coach and the athletic director are forced out because of accusations of infractions in the program.
It makes you wonder: what is under all the other rocks?
Now it is mid-August and we need some comic relief from the grubby spectacles of Kobe Bryant's road trip and Ted Williams's heirs. And what do we get? The Terminator running for governor of California on his unspoken campaign slogan: "Don't worry, I was born in Austria, I can't be president." This is not the relief we had in mind.
Bring on the steroid set. Sacking and blitzing are looking better by the moment. Grimly compelling in its order and its violence, the National Football League does not formally arrive until the first week of September. But college football arrives Saturday, carrying the twin stigmas of greed and hypocrisy. 
Miami strutted its stuff by bolting from the Big East Conference, effective a year from now, to join the classy Atlantic Coast Conference.
To be sure, other universities have cut new deals in the past, decimating conferences or loyalties: Penn State, Notre Dame and the old Southwest Conference biggies. It is also true that Syracuse and Boston College would have followed Miami out the door, only to be disinvited by the A.C.C. in favor of Virginia Tech. But Miami was the instigator here.
Even more money is to be made from a championship game in the A.C.C., so Miami defected. The players are still not paid, the last time I heard. And nobody has ever convinced me what this campus-based brand of sports entertainment has to do with higher education.
Education was also the rationale for all the extra help given to Maurice Clarett, the talented running back at Ohio State. In an article last month in The New York Times, it was reported that Clarett was allowed to take oral exams after being unable to complete his written exam.
"I see some football players who probably should not be here, because their academic background is so wanting," said Paulette Pierce, the associate professor who was Clarett's teacher and is widely praised for her concern for her students. 
"So I say to myself, 'Do I keep shuttling them through the system, or do I try whatever it takes to get them to learn?' even if the methods I use may be seen as unorthodox." 
Thank goodness some teachers like Pierce respond to students whose skills are marginal. But most of us who went to college can recall trying to plead our case for some help or a better grade while our teacher was striding down a hallway.
At Ohio State, and other football schools, it seems as if the entire campus holds its collective breath while some teacher tries to help a prize athlete get through a course. 
And while Clarett was being tutored and pampered, he wound up in the public eye for allegedly exaggerating the contents of a car after he reported that it had been broken into. The National Collegiate Athletic Association is investigating what Clarett was doing with the car, registered to an auto dealership, in the first place.
Clarett is currently suspended while Ohio State prepares for its first game, on Aug. 30 against Washington (which recently canned its football coach for gambling in basketball pools, and lying about it). 
Even before Clarett was suspended, he had been skipping some team workouts. In a sport that preaches teamwork, his coach, Jim Tressel, looked admiringly at Clarett's muscles and said he seemed to be in fine shape, all on his own. 
The B.C.S. will have to go a long way to match last season's title game. One senses there are a lot of candidates out there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); ETHICS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); GRADES & GRADING (65%); STEROIDS (64%); HOMICIDE (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Ethics

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (59%) Ohio State University; University of Miami; National Collegiate Athletic Assn

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%) George Vecsey; Maurice Clarett

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



418 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: AROUND THE MAJORS; 
As Hitters Start to Produce, the White Sox Surge Into Contention

BYLINE:  By Jack Curry

 BODY:
General Manager Kenny Williams became annoyed when opening the daily statistics report and seeing his Chicago White Sox anchored near the bottom of many offensive categories, so he stopped doing it. He refused to check how the White Sox stood in the American League because he did not have to study the numbers to reinforce what his eyes had told him.
 "I already knew we're going to be 11th or 12th," Williams said, a terrible place to be lodged in a 14-team league. 
 But that was in June and early July. The White Sox have been streaking since the All-Star Game, scoring runs the way they were supposed to, winning games the way they were supposed to and hanging out near the top of the A.L. Central the way they were supposed to. Williams can study those stats again. 
As Williams explained how the White Sox had refined themselves from underachievers to postseason contenders, he did not initially mention the resurgence of Magglio Ordonez, Carlos Lee and Paul Konerko, the acquisitions of Carl Everett and Roberto Alomar or the sensational pitching of the 15-game winner Esteban Loaiza, the favorite for the A.L. Cy Young award. Instead, he focused on the obvious.
"We've scored more runs," Williams said. "It's really that simple. We didn't hit in the first half. Coming out of spring training, it was the one thing we didn't think we'd have to worry about."
Now the White Sox are worried about chasing the Kansas City Royals, something that they never envisioned in spring training, either. But that is one surprise they can handle. The White Sox have used one glorious month to rescue a season. Since the All-Star Game, they have averaged more than six runs a game, won 18 of 29 and scampered two games back of the Royals.
Once the White Sox started scoring, Williams got happier and Jerry Manuel, the manager who might have been one five-game losing streak away from being unemployed, got smarter. The changes in the first 28 games since the break could be attributed to Ordonez, who batted .390 with 5 homers and 21 runs batted in; Lee, with .345, 10 homers and 28 R.B.I.; and Konerko, who had been invisible with a .197 average and batted .333 with 7 homers and 24 R.B.I.
Even while the White Sox were sputtering, Williams made two acquisitions July 1, acquiring Alomar from the Mets and Everett from the Texas Rangers. Williams said he did several background checks on Everett, a combustible switch-hitting center fielder, and was confident he would play hard and blend in. Besides, the White Sox needed a hitter from the left side, as their lineup is stacked with right-handed hitters in Ordonez, Lee, Konerko and Frank Thomas. 
Because Williams and Alomar were teammates on the Toronto Blue Jays, Williams said he knew the man and always thought New York "was not a good fit for Robbie Alomar." Although Williams would not explain why he felt Alomar in New York was like sand in Vaseline, he believed he would bring energy at second base, a position polluted by D'Angelo Jimenez.
"Even at Robbie's worst," Williams said, "we were going to get better at that position." 
Williams prides himself on being direct and mentioned last month how he still had faith in the team's talent. But Williams quickly added that the White Sox needed to play better and do it in a hurry. Hint, hint. If the White Sox had not rallied, Manuel might have been out of a job. 
"That's not news," Williams said. "They all know that everybody is under review. The one thing about me is you don't have to guess how I'm feeling."
Right now, Williams feels good. He feels good enough to dream those October dreams, the kind of dreams that would have been laughable around the White Sox a month ago.
"One of the shortcomings of this organization is thinking that winning the division is the goal," Williams said. "It's not that way in the Bronx. It's not that way in Atlanta. We have to feel the same way. When it's all said and done and I'm not sitting in this chair anymore, you've either done it or you haven't. You've either won a world championship or you haven't.'

The $182,200 Start
As David Wells of the Yankees crouched on the mound to try to deal with severe back pain Monday night against the Royals, it was legitimate to wonder whether he would have been pitching in that condition if his 22nd start did not have a $182,200 incentive attached to it.
Wells has publicly stated how important it is for him to reach the incentive clauses that are attached to the number of starts he makes. 
When Wells pitched five and two-thirds innings of relief in a 17-inning victory over Detroit two months ago, he lobbied to be paid as if the outing counted as one of his start incentives.
Despite such a focus on an individual in a team sport, General Manager Brian Cashman said he did not believe Wells had risked hurting himself for $182,200. Cashman said Wells, 40, has been pitching at "less than 100 percent" for a long time and even skipped throwing sessions between starts to rest his back.
"I'm sure, personally speaking, he likes hitting the salary incentives," Cashman said. "But from a professional standpoint, you can't argue with the success."
Since the Yankees' principal owner, George Steinbrenner, signed Wells to his creative contract before 2002, Wells is 31-10 with a 3.82 earned run average.

Unusual Expertise
If Mickey Hatcher ever loses his job as batting coach of the Anaheim Angels, he can find work as a personal batting practice pitcher for Jason Giambi or Hank Blalock.
Hatcher threw batting practice to both players at the All-Star Game. The American League fell behind the National League, 5-1, but then Giambi hammered a homer off Billy Wagner, a left-handed closer whose fastball reaches 100 miles an hour, and Blalock clubbed a two-run homer off Eric Gagne that proved to be the game-winning hit. Gagne has a 97-m.p.h. fastball and has not blown a save in the regular season since Aug. 28, 2002.
"We were joking with Mickey about it," Blalock said.
By the way, Blalock's homer looks even more monumental as Gagne continues rumbling through the N.L. like a locomotive. Gagne is 1-3 with a 1.48 E.R.A., has 40 saves in 40 chances and has permitted 10 runs while striking out 103 and walking 15 in 61 innings. Opponents are hitting .121.
After Blalock's run-scoring single off Mariano Rivera beat the Yankees last week, he was asked which moment was better: the single, or the homer off Gagne. Blalock was silent for several seconds. When a reporter mentioned that the hits were difficult to compare because the situations were contrasting, Blalock took the life preserver and agreed.

Chasing a Record
Other than Mike Piazza and his father, there is probably no one rooting harder for Piazza to break Carlton Fisk's record for homers by a catcher than the Mets' hierarchy. Piazza needs eight in the final six weeks of the season. If Piazza hits them, the Mets will feel more comfortable moving through the unnecessary soap opera of having him play games at first base next year.

A Sprinter Fades
It was fun for the Blue Jays while it lasted. The young, pitching-poor Jays stayed close to the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox in the American League East through July, but they do not have reliable starters beyond Roy Halladay and Kelvim Escobar and faded. After sprinting to a 46-34 start, the Jays have lost 28 of 43 and have dropped below .500 (61-62).
"I think in a year and a half we're going to be where we want to be," General Manager J. P. Ricciardi said. "I don't know if we'll be right there, but we're going to be a team that no one wants to play. If we had more pitching, we'd be right in the thick of it."

Dead, Tired
Phil Lesh has experienced countless long, strange trips in more than three decades as the bass player for the Grateful Dead. But Lesh, a rabid Yankees fan, has never made a short, normal trip to Yankee Stadium. When the Dead played at Jones Beach last weekend, the 63-year-old Lesh planned to do it at last. The plan was to play a show on Saturday night, see a game on Sunday and do another gig on Sunday night.
Who was Lesh kidding? Naturally, the Dead played a marathon show and Lesh was dead tired when the wake-up call came. He told Andrew Levy, a sports marketing agent who set up the tickets, that he hoped to see the Yankees another time. Levy countered with the postseason, because the Dead is not touring in October. But Lesh sighed and wondered about the possibility of that not-so-strange trip. "We're on the road so much," Lesh told Levy, "that when I'm home I like to stay home."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hank Blalock of the Rangers had a two-run home run off the virtually unhittable Eric Gagne in the All-Star Game.; Jerry Manuel's job as manager of the White Sox was at risk until recently.; A resurgent Magglio Ordonez batted nearly .400 in the four weeks after the All-Star Game. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%) Baseball; All-Star Games

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%) Chicago White Sox; Kansas City Royals

PERSON: Jack Curry

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (78%); MISSOURI, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



419 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Untangling Tongues

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

 BODY:
HELEN DI runs a business of Babel.
 Every week, documents in dozens of languages pour into her Ardsley office to be translated into English. There are marriage licenses in Spanish, college transcripts in Arabic, high school diplomas in Chinese, witness accounts in Russian and birth certificates in Korean. 
 To her surprise, Ms. Di said, most of these requests come from Westchester customers who have found her company, DML Solutions, in the local telephone book. 
"We have been in the Yellow Pages for years," said Ms. Di, 45, "but even just a few years ago, there was no request from Westchester. Zero. None. Why this change? I think it's the growing number of immigrants in this county." 
Like DML Solutions, most of the other translation companies active in Westchester -- about a half-dozen in all -- say their profits have increased by at least 10 percent each year in the last three years despite the overall economic downturn affecting the region. The profit of DML Solutions, which was just under half a million dollars for 2002, has grown by 30 percent every year since 2000.
The 2000 census found 144,000 Hispanic residents in the county, a 67 percent increase from 1990. There were 41,000 Asians, almost a third more than a decade before. There has also been a diversification in the languages spoken in Westchester. While Japanese was indisputably the main Asian language spoken before 1990, now at least as many people speak Hindi or Chinese at home, according to the 2000 census. More Filipinos, Koreans and Pakistanis are also calling the county home. 
Responding to the changing demands, some Westchester companies advertise translations and interpretations in "all languages." 
Precise Translations, a Buchanan company owned by Gloria Mattia and her daughter Melissa Mattia, is one of them. 
What if the customer speaks a rare Chinese dialect, like Kejia Hua?
"We have it," Gloria Mattia declared. 
The company also offers Mandarin, Cantonese, Fujian Hua, Fuzhou Hua, Taishan, Shanghainese and a half-dozen other dialects that probably cover all of China, she said. "We have never encountered a request that we cannot accommodate," Melissa Mattia said. 
The older Ms. Mattia, born and raised in Argentina, came to the United States as a young woman in 1960 to study English. In 1976 she became the only Spanish interpreter at the Westchester County Court. 
"I handled everything, single-handedly, all the Spanish-language cases," she recalled. "But there were not many of them. Two cases a week at the most." 
Now the county court uses at least a dozen interpreters each day, court clerks say. In the recent death penalty trial of Dennis Alvarez Hernandez, a Honduran immigrant, the court deployed a half-dozen interpreters for witness testimony. 
"When I saw the increasing volume of Spanish cases," Gloria Mattia said, "I used to send them to my Hispanic friends. 'I cannot do this job. You do it.' Then I saw this business opportunity and opened a company." By 1999, when she left the county court, she had built up an extensive network of Spanish interpreters and translators, all freelancers. She assigns them projects at the county district attorney's office, social services agencies and legal aid groups. Her freelancers refer speakers of other languages -- often fellow members of translators' organizations -- to her company. 
While guarding the total number and the names of her freelancers as a trade secret, Ms. Mattia said that some of her translators of more obscure languages live in far-flung places like Lebanon and Ghana, receiving their assignments through the Internet.
Every translation agency charges different rates for different languages, and the prices are often a result of supply and demand. 
DML Solutions, for example, charges between 30 and 40 cents a word for translations into Spanish, Italian, Portuguese or German, Ms. Di said. Translations into any of the Slavic languages cost 35 to 45 cents per word, and translations into Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Arabic and Hebrew fetch 40 to 50 cents per word. 
For interpretation, Ms. Di asks around $100 per hour for most European languages and around $150 per hour for most Asian and Middle Eastern languages.
Not every translation business has prospered in the last decade. One example is the Japan America Learning Center, a company based in Scarsdale that specializes in Japanese lessons and translations. As more Japanese executives living in Westchester are recalled home by their companies because of the stagnant Japanese economy, the Japanese population in the county shrank to 6,700 in 2000, down by 27 percent from 1990, according to the census. 
Now, as fewer Japanese parents request interpreters for parent-teacher conferences at Westchester schools, the Japan America Learning Center has turned to book translations (of American financial tips into Japanese and Japanese fairy tales into English) to pick up the slack. 
"The last time we were in court?" said Kazuko Maeda, the owner and one of its translators, "That was two years ago. It was the divorce court." 
Ms. Di, who speaks both Cantonese and Mandarin, had worked as an English translator for a Chinese government agency before she came to the United States at age 27. Her husband, Daniel Zhu, had found a job as a translator at the United Nations headquarters. Later on, after they earning their business degrees in this country, they detoured into banking and consulting. Because of Mr. Zhu's reputation as a translator, multinational companies approached the couple for translation projects even before they started their own business six years ago.
"Daniel just loved translation," Ms. Di said. "We thought if you did what you loved, money would follow. But at the beginning, it was rather scary not to have regular paychecks coming in."
Now she or her husband rarely do the initial translation on any document, but they carefully edit Chinese translations they have assigned to freelancers. 
Until three years ago, large companies based outside Westchester were their sole customers, she said. Now clients include a mix of corporations, local nonprofit organizations and the county's recent immigrants. 
Their operation has also grown moresophisticated. When a translation project -- from English to another language -- is technical or complicated, she asks a partner living in the country where the language is spoken to proofread the draft. 
"Languages evolve, and we don't want to get any term wrong," she said. 
The couple has stringent requirements for their freelancers, most of whom are well-educated immigrants fluent in English.
Linguistic proficiency is far from enough. "He or she needs to have lived in this country for at least five years," Ms. Di said. "Cultural proficiency is a must." 
What about Americans who have learned foreign languages? 
"It's odd," she said. "But for some reason, I haven't encountered an American who can speak a foreign language as some foreigners can speak English."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Zhu and Helen Di, above, owners of DML Solutions, translate a document at their company in Ardsley. Their clients include a mix of corporations, local nonprofit organizations and the county's recent immigrants. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (78%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CENSUS (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); CAPITAL CRIMES (50%) Language and Languages; Translation; Language and Languages

ORGANIZATION: Dml Solutions (Co); Japan American Learning Center; Precise Translations (Co)

PERSON: Gloria Mattia; Melissa Mattia; Yilu Zhao; Daniel Zhu; Helen Di

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



420 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK; 
A New Restaurant Sets Cherry Grove Abuzz

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
ON Thursday nights on Fire Island, Cherry Grove bar-hoppers have their choice of nightspots where they can sip tall drinks while watching male dancers gyrate in g-strings a few feet away.
 There is Cherry's, an open-air restaurant-bar adjacent to the dock, where pornographic movie stars strut their stuff to disco music as a drag queen distributes their promotional photos. Across the wharf, a smaller al fresco spot called Sunsets on the Bay (slogan: "Where people come to play") offers "go-go boys" both live and on film. 
 With tourism down by approximately 20 percent this summer, and rentals fallen by about the same, the bars and restaurants of Cherry Grove, which lays claim to the title of America's first gay resort, have accelerated their promotional efforts. Tuesday evenings, the Grove Hotel features a trivia contest and free tacos, with activities emceed by a popular drag queen and on Wednesday nights, the place provides a grill and a chef for a barbecue promotion called "Bring Your Own Meat." Tuesday nights at Top of the Bay, another popular restaurant-bar, means free hot dogs. Its neighbor, Sunsets, competes with a free Chinese buffet. 
 "The list of bar events I publish is longer than ever," said Violet Silver, who puts out a nightlife guide called Violet's Wild Rose.
 Still, business is slow. Some say it's the soggy weather. Others point to the national economy and call it trickle-down. Many, however, trace the economic problems back two years, when Michael's, a popular casual restaurant burned to the ground The fire's cause was never determined.
 "There are two major institutions that used to be here, and they are not drawing people over any more," said Paul Jablonski, a real estate broker and part-time bartender at Top of the Bay. "There are a few shops and an art gallery, but most Cherry Grove businesses are bar-restaurants," said Mr. Jablonski, who is acting coordinator of the Cherry Grove Chamber of Commerce. 
 The loss of Michael's, situated at the foot of the dock and facing what's called Cherry Grove downtown, "was fairly devastating," Ms. Silver said. "The restaurant was at the center of town, and it was the center of the community. You sat outside and watched everything going on" in Cherry Grove. "When it disappeared, it left a hole in the community, economically," she said.
 For two summers, Michael's charred remains greeted visitors as they stepped off the ferry. Its acrid smell drifted across Cherry Grove's compact downtown long after the blaze was put out. "People saw that coming off the ferry, and it didn't have a positive effect," said Johnny Pool, a longtime Cherry Grove bartender who now works at Cherry's.
 This summer, visitors watched as a 2,300-square-foot building resembling a boat hull went up at the south end of the dock, the first commercial construction to go up in Cherry Grove in a generation. Priced at about $500,000, the structure is 30 feet wide and 50 feet long, constructed of log-like wooden blocks, and has exposed cantilevered girders. 
 "I think it's beautiful," Ms. Silver said. "But I hear some people say it looks like an airline hangar. They call it La Guardia on the Bay."
 Hal H. Hayes, a Fire Island resident and the building's architect, said speculation about the new restaurant was running rampant.
 "I have a lot of friends in Cherry Grove, and all I have to do is appear in Cherry Grove and I will be asked constantly about the building," Mr. Hayes said . "Everybody wants to know what it's going to be like. Everybody wants to know who is coming in."
 The building's location makes it a kind of symbol, Mr. Hayes said. "It's the first thing people see when they come in from the ferry," he said. "So the building has to present its best face to the bay, which it does."
Last week the Stein family, which owns the ferry service and formerly owned Michael's, ended the speculation. Ken Stein, 37, the president of Sayville Ferry Service, a fifth-generation family business, announced that the Steins had signed a contract with Ed Purcell, and that Mr. Purcell planned to open a restaurant in the new building next May.
 Mr. Purcell, who has worked in Cherry Grove restaurants for 17 years, said the restaurant would be named Mother's Place at Cherry Grove. It is his first restaurant.
 A resident of Farmingdale, Mr. Purcell worked at the Monster in the late 80's through early 90's, welcoming customers to a popular weekend brunch. He also worked at the local pizzeria, then spent several seasons as a manager at Michael's.
 Mr. Purcell said he planned to run the new restaurant much in the spirit of the old Michael's, where the menu was casual, prices moderate (at least by resort standards) and service unpretentious. "Michael's was a safe haven where everyone felt welcome, whether you lived in the Grove, were here for the day or whether you came over from the Pines or Ocean Bay Park," he said.
 Mr. Purcell said he hoped the restaurant, which will seat about 250 while the former one accommodated about 140, would also attract Nassau and Suffolk residents looking for a resort experience. "So many people on Long Island get in their cars and drive all day to a place like Cape Cod," he said. "Yet there is a wonderful resort just 20 minutes from them on Fire Island." 
 Mr. Purcell said he planned to draw from his experience at the front of Michael's in designing and developing the new venture. He said he planned an initial investment of at least $100,000, mainly in kitchen equipment.
 Breakfast and lunch would be simple, he said. "You can sip a cup of coffee, or eat steak and eggs, whatever you like," he said. Dinners might include a few more elaborate items. Mr. Purcell said he planned to hire an old friend, Kevin Schmitz, a chef and owner of the Marketplace in Great Barrington, Mass., as a consultant for the dinner trade.
 Mr. Pool, the bartender, said the new building, and the buzz it's generating, struck him as a good thing.
 "I think the new restaurant will draw business to the island, and that's what we need right now," Mr. Pool said. "Things have been a little slow and all the rain hasn't helped."
 Mr. Purcell said he was looking forward to opening next spring and had already selected an inspirational message a mentor had once impressed upon him: "Embrace what makes you different."
 "This place," Mr. Purcell said, "is going to go back to being what the Grove has been missing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mother's Place in Cherry Grove, center, is going up where Michael's, a popular restaurant, burned down two years ago. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FILM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); DANCERS (73%); ART DEALERS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (57%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: Michael's (Fire Island, Ny, Restaurant); Mother's Place (Fire Island, Ny, Restaurant)

PERSON: Warren Strugatch; Ed Purcell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Fire Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



421 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Even in Online Age, Reunions Flourish 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA MORGENSTERN KATZ

 BODY:
DON'T tell the 1973 graduates of East Meadow High School that you can't go home again.
 They came back in little black dresses and suits and ties. Like girls and boys at their first school dance, they lingered in the hallway outside the ballroom of the Long Island Marriott in Uniondale on July 25, tentative about going inside. But once old friends began to recognize each other, the laughing and shrieking began. 
 It was their 30th reunion. Despite explosive growth in the last couple of years of Internet sites that help people reconnect online with those from their past, the traditional high school reunion is still going strong on Long Island. Nearly 200 people attended the East Meadow reunion, organized by Donna DeFilippis, a reunion planner who is president of Huntington-based Reunions of America. 
 That same night, Ms. DeFilippis had also organized a 25th reunion at the Woodbury Country Club for Northport High School and a 30th reunion at the Huntington Hilton for Brentwood High School, as well as two reunions at the Sheraton Hotel in Smithtown, a 20th for Copiague High School and a 10th for West Babylon High School. 
Elyse Richards and Jamie Bogenshutz were best friends in junior high school, stayed friendly at East Meadow High School and were among the first to arrive at the reunion. "I couldn't wait," Ms. Richards, who lives in Manhattan, said. "I wanted to see how everybody looks." 
 "Tonight is about memories and friendships from a very long time ago," said Ms. Bogenshutz, who lives in Massapequa.
 There is something special about reconnecting face to face, said Ms. DeFilippis, who has cornered the Long Island reunion market over the last 20 years, running about 100 high school reunions a year. She works with about 20 hotels and catering places on Long Island. She has 10 full-time employees who work in the office she runs from her home in Huntington and 40 part-timers.
 "No matter who you've talked to online or have been sharing e-mails with, when you walk in this door and you see these faces and feel that energy and get that hug and that kiss, there is nothing that can diminish that in any way," Ms. DeFilippis said. 
 The heads of reunion Web sites agreed. Classmates.com, with 35 million registered members, 1.8 million of whom are paying subscribers, was rated the fourth-largest site on the Internet for all online paid content. "You read about people online, their profiles, what they're doing, and it really gets you curious about what they look like today," said Michael Smith, the chief executive and president of Classmates Online, which runs the Web site. "You think, 'I'd really like to meet this person and talk to this person again after all these years."'
 Jeffrey Tinsley, chief executive and chairman of Reunion.com, said, "I think that more people are going to attend their reunions because we're helping keep them in closer communication." 
 After a year and a half of business, his site has 12 million registered members. "We're making it easier to find people for the sake of having a reunion," he said.
 Mr. Tinsley, 29, is an example of the benefit of attending: at his 10th reunion last year, he became reacquainted with a girl from high school and they are now married. 
 Ms. DeFilippis pays a fee to use a reunion Web site to advertise or track down classmates. The virtual reunion and the actual reunion complement each other, said Ms. DeFilippis, who is a graduate of Walt Whitman High School in Huntington, class of 1976. Once people receive her invitation, they often go to the Internet to see who signed up. 
 William Chancellor, of Oakdale, who was on the East Meadow wrestling team, said he checked the Web sites after he got the invitation and then e-mailed seven former teammates. Others at the reunion, like Jeremy Boss of Atlanta and Marc Sonenshein of Florida, said they had checked Classmates.com, too.
 They were not alone in traveling from afar. Elaine Timmerman Neumeyer came from the North Georgia mountains and said the funniest thing about this reunion was the eyeglasses. "It's a riot, because everybody has them now, but no one will wear them," she said. "My friend keeps asking me to read all the nametags to her." 
 Ms. DeFilippis said the number of graduates who travel for reunions is down about 10 percent since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, although she said that the weak economy might also have had an effect. 
 For some East Meadow graduates, there were pleasant surprises. Jill Pomerantz of Sands Point said it was great to see her sixth-grade boyfriend again. Linda Peskin Roslow of Merrick met an old friend who told her a funny story about her father. That "made her night," she said; because her father died 15 years ago, she treasured the remembrance. 
 This is an important function of reunions, said Gail Satler, an associate professor of sociology at Hofstra. Graduation from high school marked the end of a phase when community and family were intact. "Once high school is over, people go their separate ways," she said; if that was a happy time, going back creates feelings of security and nostalgia. 
 The people working the reunion help generate nostalgia. Reunions of America hands out a directory at each reunion listing tidbits from the year of graduation. (Average cost of a home in 1973: $32,500.) The disc jockey threw out trivia questions: "Who sang backup vocals on Carly Simon's 'You're So Vain'?" (Mick Jagger.) 
 It feels good to reconnect with people who shared a maturing process, said Joseph Scardapane, director of the psychology clinic at Hofstra.
 "In no other period of your life are you developing so rapidly and doing so many things for the first time," he said, like the first intimate relationship, the first job, the first driving experience. "That period of life is very intense emotionally," he said, although, it is illusory to think people can relive it. 
 And, Dr. Satler said, "You either loved that time, or it was the most miserable time of your life." If you felt like an outsider, she asked, "why would you go back?" Some, she conceded, go back for closure, but she surmised that it's mostly those who were popular who return. 
 Not so, Ms. DeFilippis, who is 45, said. "People really worry about coming," she said. "They think nobody's going to remember them or think of them fondly." 
 But, she added, many people call her the next day and say: "I didn't realize how well people thought of me. I didn't realize how many people knew me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: East Meadow High School's 30th reunion was one of about a hundred a year put on by Reunions of America. (Photo by Katrina Hajagos for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%) Education and Schools; Parties (Social)

ORGANIZATION: Reunions of America (Co)

PERSON: Donna Defilippis; Debra Morgenstern Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



422 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: About That Glass Ceiling: Look at Specific Women 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was a bit perplexed by "Reflections on a Glass Ceiling: Why Women Still Struggle to Get Ahead in State Politics" (front page, Aug. 10). 
The failure of certain women to rise in the political hierarchy is not an indictment of our system in New Jersey, but perhaps more a "reflection" on the specific individuals you mention. Our previous governor was a woman, and numerous women have served in Congress who were leaders in the state -- among them, Florence Dwyer, Millicent Fenwick and Marge Roukema. I had the honor of serving as Ms. Fenwick's chief of staff and as her campaign manager in her unsuccessful race for the United States Senate. Her defeat had more to do with a 10 percent unemployment rate than her gender. 
 As for Nia Gill, I have the misfortune of living in her Senate district. I recently wrote her a letter asking her opinion of Amiri Baraka's hateful poem. It took her more than three months to respond (and only after I sent a second letter and copied the local paper) and she refused to take a position on this issue, citing, unbelievably, support for Mr. Baraka among Jews. Maybe this, and not her gender, is why Ms. Gill was shunned by her party and will be stymied in her efforts to move ahead.

Lawrence Rosenshein
Montclair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); GOVERNORS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%) Politics and Government; Women

PERSON: Lawrence Rosenshein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



423 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: As American As Baseball 

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 I am disappointed in William C. Rhoden's column ("The Trade Deadline Should Pass," Aug. 4) calling for the restriction or elimination of trading during the baseball season. His comments show an unfamiliarity with the appeal of baseball, and he reduces his credibility with calumny. 
 Baseball's relatively high number of in-season trades represents a huge part of the game's appeal and a way to maintain competitive balance. Ardent fans clog sports radio phone lines to discuss and dissect potential deals, and they flock to sports Web sites to read the latest rumors of trades. Most industries would kill to find such an easy way to get customers talking about their products, and indeed, no other sport can match the free publicity that baseball gets from its trades.
Furthermore, allowing teams to trade during the season does not facilitate or encourage "surrender," as Rhoden mistakenly calls these maneuvers.
Instead, it allows noncontending teams to trade away a few extra victories in the current season for the prospect of significantly more down the road. This trade-off is a smart baseball strategy that has been a part of the game for its entire history, and it rewards the organizations that can correctly evaluate their own talent base.
Finally, Rhoden twice calls in-season baseball trades "un-American." Nothing could be further from the truth. The United States is one of the world's most free economies, whose industries are, relative to the rest of the world, unfettered by excessive restraints and regulations.
Any further regulation of in-season trading would be more reminiscent of the command economies of Lenin and Mao than of the laissez-faire approach of the United States. It would appear that in trying to vilify baseball's open trading policies, Rhoden has been caught off base.

KEITH LAW
Toronto

The writer is special assistant to the general manager of the Toronto Blue Jays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WRITERS (73%) Baseball; Trades (Sports)

PERSON: Keith Law

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (64%) ONTARIO, CANADA (64%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



424 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: LIFE'S WORK; 
New Business Plan's Objective: Being Mom

BYLINE:  By Lisa Belkin

 BODY:
SOMETIMES an epiphany can look a lot like a nervous breakdown. Such was the situation for Gail Wiggin earlier this summer when she realized that her son was not going to slide into college while she worked her usual 60-hour weeks.
 Although I have never actually met Ms. Wiggin, we've had a continuing e-mail conversation for a few years now. Her two children are about five years ahead of both of mine, and her notes are like travel advisories from the front lines full of wry advice on how to work and raise two teenagers (her son, Teke, is 17, and her daughter, Amary, is 15). 
 Which is why her latest news has me in a cold sweat. Ms. Wiggin and her husband, Alec, run their own company, aabalone, which is in the brand building business. Her recent turmoil began during a pitch to a core client. As she describes it, the 50-something company chairman nodded enthusiastically through the pitch, while the not-quite-30-something assistant sat and glared.
 When the chairman left the assistant to close the deal she "verbally pounced" on Ms. Wiggin, who is 53 and became suddenly fed up with being hectored by "youngsters who think they know everything because they are young and think I know nothing because I'm not."
 So Ms. Wiggin dropped the client, which was either a very brave or very stupid thing to do in this economy, and took a new look at the life she had more or less ignored over the last few years. "Bills were piling up along with the dust balls, wet sports clothes, unstrung rackets and interminable unfilled-out school forms," she says. "Plus, there was never any food in the house other than left-over pizza and impossibly moldy bread. The bed linen hadn't been changed since May."
 What worried her most, she says, was that this chaos had seeped into her son's quest for college. She herself had sent him to his winter College Boards two hours late. A scouting trip organized by Mr. Wiggin had been a nonstarter, because neither husband nor son had thought to call the prospective college first, and had arrived when the school was all but closed for the summer.
 "Do kids get into college by accident?" she wondered. "These people need a mom."
 So she became one, and she was e-mailing me to report that all those years of competing and obsessing in the workplace were perfect training for her new role. She had spent a career thinking that work was preparing her to do even more work. Who knew that what she was really learning was something else entirely?
 "Made the plane, hotel and California-appropriate convertible car rental reservation," she wrote of the first leg of her campaign. "Identified the seven target colleges. Dove deeply into their Web sites. Interviewed own son as to his academic interests (hey, I've been working and have to catch up on a few things) and targeted professors at each of the colleges in his strongest academic interest area."
 She went on to set up tours and interviews at each school. Then she "harangued" her son into "composing a letter to target professors, detailing his arrival on campus and requesting a face-to-face meeting." Since she would not actually be going on the trip -- it was to be a bonding experience for father and son -- Ms. Wiggin decided that they would need to communicate with home base "so all California Starbucks locations with wireless technology near our target colleges were located and plotted on maps via MapQuest."
 Just before the trip began early this month Ms. Wiggin put the final touches on her presentation. Each traveler received a kit containing folders for each college with driving directions, admissions building map, pertinent college data, areas of academic excellence, bios of each teacher who had agreed to meet with Teke, and, natch, the Starbucks map.
 There was also an R.B.F.I. folder (Read Before First Interview). "I am particularly proud of my sons R.B.F.I.," Ms. Wiggin says. "In it were documents like 'Questions to Ask the College Guide During the Tour,' 'Questions Which Might Be Posed During the College Interview' and 'What to Look for When Visiting a Campus.' "
 When Ms. Wiggin and I last spoke, the California trip had just begun, and so far neither of her "guys" had gotten lost or left their computer charger or contact lens case in a motel room (as per a checklist she included). Flush with success, Ms. Wiggin was turning to her next projects for the summer -- planning the second trip of the college campaign and rethinking the direction of her business.
 "What do you think," she asked, "is this college thing an income producing business model?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS PLANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WORK WEEK (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); BRANDING (53%) Labor; Colleges and Universities; Families and Family Life

PERSON: Lisa Belkin; Gail Wiggin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



425 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3533 words

HEADLINE: A Tough Summer to Commute

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
IT has been a very good summer if you have been in New Jersey with no place to go. Otherwise, it has been a bumpy ride.
 From derailments and disruptions on New Jersey Transit trains that stranded tens of thousands of commuters week after week to flooded and pock-marked roads, experts and those who run the transportation network in New Jersey are talking in near-apocalyptic terms about the severe lack of money and the danger this poses.
 Amid all of this, a major rail hub eight years in the making in the marsh between Newark and Pennsylvania station in Manhattan, the $450 million Secaucus transfer station, will open next month. Whether this be-he-moth of a station - the largest in the state, though it essentially has no parking - will improve travel for most commuters or unnecessarily complicate it remains to be seen. Eventually it will connect all the active rail lines in the northern part of the state, but initial operations will be limited. 
 What a summer it has been. Starting in June with a series of train service disruptions-17 in all, including a derailment on July 14 the 212,600 New Jersey Transit rail commuters ''didn't get what they were paying for,'' said George D. Warrington, the beleaguered agencys executive director. To lessen the sting, holders of monthly rail tickets were given a 15 percent rebate.
 On the roadways, it has been only a little better. Over the last few weeks, a series of soaking rains flooded large swaths of Paterson and Newark, completely shutting down Route 17 near East Rutherford during rush hour, causing delays on Route 22 near Bound Brook, mangling traffic on Routes 1 and 9 near the Turnpike, and slowing traffic to a crawl throughout the state.
 Nature took most of the blame on these occasions - there has been 18 to 24 inches of rain in northern New Jersey since June 1, according to Frederick J. Gadomski, a meteorologist at Penn State University. But in a recent interview the state's transportation commissioner, John F. Lettiere, acknowledged that many maintenance and drainage projects that could have alleviated some problems had been put off because of budget constraints.
 These recent difficulties, particularly on the trains, were exacerbated by bad luck and high water, but some observers are seeing serious cracks in country's third-largest transit system.
 ''I think its been an incredibly successful entity,'' said Martin E. Robins, director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Policy Institute at Rutgers University, and a founder of the system.
 But he warned, ''it's future is now in danger.''
 And the present is not so pretty. Mr. Lettiere, who is chairman of New Jersey Transit in his capacity as the state's transportation conmmissioner, acknowledged that stations have become dirtier and less well-lit in recent months, and for the first time in 10 years ridership is down - 3.9 percent from 2001 to 2002 - despite the recent opening of the Midtown Direct line to Montclair.
 Officials blame the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the economic downturn for the slip. To make matters worse, last winter the agency eliminated 165 non-union positions in ''management and support staff'' at a savings of $27 million. Even more alarming, the cash-starved agency has been playing budgetary sleight-of-hand the last several years, leaving less and less money to pay for large projects, core main-Nancy Wegard for The New York Times Starting in June with a series of service disruptions - 17 in allthe 212,600 commuters who rely on New Jersey Transit every day didn't get what they were paying for, said George D. Warrington, the agencys executive director. Torrential rains caused problems in Newark and in Paterson, top left. Last month, a derailment caused one train to jump the track in Secaucus, middle left, not far from where a station is to open next month. Continued on Page 6 - tenance and expansion.
 ''The last transit agency that did that was the New York Transit Authority in the 60's and 70's,'' said Jonathan Orcutt, associate director of the Tri-State Transportion Campaign, an advocacy group based in New York, ''and we see how that wound up. Its a real disaster if they keep that up.''
 Many experts blame the state's governors past and present, who have submitted smaller-than-hoped-for budgets, and a lack of will in the state Legislature to raise taxes.
 For their part, state officials are quick to dismiss the notion that long-running problems of financing the railroad have had a hand in the recent mishaps, but they acknowledge that long-term fixes cannot be ignored. And for all the criticism, they point to the success the agency has had in reducing crowding on rush-hour trains and improving overall reliability.
 It is with this backdrop that the transit agency is preparing to open the transfer station on Sept. 6, though only on weekends until the PATH station in lower Manhattan re-opens later in the year. Ultimately, the station will connect all but one of the 11 disjointed lines in the state.
 At that time, it will be possible, for example, someone from Oradell to e to board a train there, transfer in Secaucus and get off at the new station at Newark Liberty International Airportrather than crawling along in traffic on the turnpike or Routes 1 and 9.
 Already transportation experts and rail advocates are asking how effective the station will be, or if it will be too successful, putting additional strain on a system that is groaning from the new Midtown lines to Montclair as well as the Morris and Essex route. Then there is the issue of parking spacesor more precisely, the lack of them, since current plans call for a mere 30 spaces for station workers and vendorsa move that has raised eyebrows.
 When the project was first proposed, citizen's groups from Secaucus and surrounding areas were concerned that parking would create huge traffic tie-ups, and New Jersey Transit and the developers agreedat least for now - not to include any.
 Officials at New Jersey Transit say they ''are now revisiting the possibility of parking at Secaucus,'' according to a spokesman for the agency. Still, it is inevitable that traffic will come to the site, especially since the New Jersey Turnpike is constructing a new exit, scheduled for completion in September 2005, that will lead to the station.
 ''I don't think you want to encourage a whole lot of traffic there,'' said John Pucher, a professor of transportation at Rutgers. ''That's the kind of place you want to encourage transit-oriented development. It's going to create congestion on the local roads.''
 As the transit agency embarks on yet a new path, commuters have nagging ques- tions about lowered expectations.
 Even Mr. Lettiere, the transportation commissioner, said: : ''Because of a lack of funding, their lives may not be getting better. Whether they're getting worse, I wouldn't say that.''
 But, he noted, ''We're not happy about it.''
 The summer's low point came on July 14, when Train No. 3920 out of Trenton passed over the Hackensack River and lurched off the tracks in Secaucus around 7:50 a.m. Two cars derailed, injuring 25 passengers. Officials eventually identified a defect that caused a wheel on one car to pop off. Meanwhile, as the transit agency pulled similar cars off the tracks for inspections, the result for a while was shorter carsand tempers. Investigators also faulted train conductors, who had performed an emergency inspection outside of Newark before the derailment but found nothing wrong.
 Many riders spoke of a lack of reasonably prompt, accurate and helpful communications from New Jersey Transit officials that day - a complaint echoed by passengers whenever an incident snarls the system.
 ''To say that July has been a bad month would be an understatement,'' Mr. Warrington told the transit agency's board last month.
 Some commuters wonder if the problem is bigger than one bad month.
 ''It's progressively getting worse,'' said Diane Min, 23, an auditor from Matawan who removed her headphones and leaned on the wall of a rattling and crowded vestibule on Train No 3824 one recent morning. The Northeast Direct train had left Trenton at 7:12 a.m. By 7:50 a.m., it had reached the Metropark station in Edison, and on this drizzly and humid morning, commuters shuffled their way on to the clammy train. Dozens of others just looked at the crowds, turned and waited for another one.
 Just a few feet away sat Reinhard Eichinger, 55, a real estate consultant from Yardville, who commutes between Hamilton and New York.
 Mr. Eichinger said he had been on a train on July 29 that left Pennsylvania Station in New York at 6:11 p.m., which normally would arrive in Hamilton at 7:24. But at 7:30, the train was limping into Rahway. A train operated by Amtrak train, which owns the track on the Northeast corrider between Trenton and Pennsylvania Station in New York, but on which New Jersey Transit trains travel, had pulled down wires near the Metropark station, just to the south, halting all traffic along the corridor - the busiest of all lines in New Transit's system.
 When he finally got off the train, Mr. Eichinger said he asked a worker what was happening.
 ''I don't know,'' was the reply.
 Then he said another employee came by and informed the crowd, ''I want to organize you into groups.'' Mr. Eichinger said he thought to himself, ''O.K., good idea.'' But the man disappeared, and over the course of the evening, trains continued to deposit riders at the station, leaving hundreds stranded.
 Workers relayed hopeful-sounding rumors that buses would be coming, or that another train would take them back to New York or perhaps another station. Finally, around 10:30 p.m., several buses arrived, but riders needed to give the driver directions to get to their stops.
 At 11:30 p.m., Mr. Eichinger said he finally got homea 75-minute trip trans- formed into a five-hour ordeal. ''I've ridden on this train off and on for 20 years,'' he said, ''but last month was the worst month. It really makes me concerned what would happen if there was truly something much more serious.''
 To all of this, Mr. Warrington promised a ''massive overhaul'' of the system's communications network and closer coordination with Amtrak.
 He said he has initiated plans for emergency regional ''Go Teams'' groups of six to eight managers - who will be sent to hot spots to ''provide care to customers involved in a major incident.''
 In addition, Mr. Warrington said he had created a new post within his agency, called chief of railroad communications, who at least initially will head a staff of 15 to 20 people to pass along information to travelers.
 And he said that after tests in November, every worker in every station would be provided with text-message pagers and bullhorns, and that a wireless public address system would be installed on every train with the ability to receive and disseminate timely information. There will be new procedures to gather buses faster from the fleet or contract out to get vehicles immediately - so that long waits should be eliminated.
 Mr. Warrington also said that within the next few months, all conductors would be given cellphones to communicate not only with each other, but also with the central communications center.

'The Old-Fashioned Way'
 Leonard Resto of Chatham, who is the president of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers and takes the train every day to his day job in Manhattan, is eager to see how the new plan works.
 For now, said Mr. Resto, when he sees unwieldy, angry crowds at Pennsylvania Station he simply turns and walks the two blocks to the PATH station at 33rd Street and Sixth Avenue, gets off in Hoboken, and rides the train home the ''old-fashioned way''- before Midtown Direct service was started in 1996.
 Besides the issue of better communications, commuters also complain about crowding. Mr. Warrington said that he had reduced the number of people standing on trains from thousands each day to ''modest pockets'' and that the situation would improve more when 200 new cars on order are put into service in six to eight months. And another 100 bi-level cars specially designed to fit through the tunnel into Manhattan are expected to be operational in 2005.
 Yet all of this might add up to small potatoes in light of a looming threat: the public transportation budget crunch.
 For the past three fiscal years, New Jersey Transit has been living with the myth that its capital budgetthe part that pays for large, long-term construction and repairs has been fully financed. But this is not the case. In fact, the agency is essentially taking money away from itself to pay for day-to-day expenses like salaries, health care, fuel and electricity.
 In the state budget that was approved in June, the agency's operating expenses were pegged at $1.3 billion, but $383.5 million of that money - 28 percent - was taken from the capital budget of $1.34 million. As for the capital budget, about 20 percent, or $263 million, is going to debt service alone. This leaves about $521 million for what officials call ''fundamental needs of the core New Jersey Transit system.''
 Experts and the agency see two problems with this finger-in-the-dyke approach: repairs and upgrades that are put off will only be more costly in the long run. Even more alarming is this scenario: routine service and repairs are put off, resulting in worse service that could drive away even more passengers.
 ''It's kind of like mortgaging your house to pay your food bill,'' said Alan S. Pisarski, a transportation consultant. ''You can't do that very long without making the system suffer.''
 New Jersey Transit's total budget for the fiscal year 2003-04, up $182 million over last year, has been increased largely to finance the opening of the Secaucus transfer station and continued work on the South Jersey and Hudson-Bergen Light Rail systems. About half the agency's expenses are paid by ticket sales, and the rest comes from state and federal subsidies. And the recent budget did not include a fare increase.
 Mr. Robins warned that most train cars needed major overhauls after 12 years, and that work might not get done with fewer dollars available. ''If you dont have the capital money,'' he said, ''you keep patching equipment together.''
 Mr . Warrington could only agree. ''Not today, but over the next several years, it is very clear that the capitalization of the rail-road and the bus company for that matter needs to be substantially ratcheted up,'' he said. ''And it's less about reliability. It's much more about capacity and reach of the system. If you look at the forecast of demand, it's about satisfying demand.''
 It is really a question of mathematics. In a state that in June was coaxed from the precipice of a shutdown, money is hard to come by. Understanding these realities, Governor McGreevey last winter appointed a commission in an effort to find additional money for the transportation trust fund, created in 1984 to realize large-scale projects.
 Most revenue sources for the fund are depleted, said Mr. Orcutt, and policy experts and lawmakers say the trust fund is mainly paying off the debt for bonds approved on previous projects. Indeed, the worst-kept secret in Trenton is that one of the likeliest recommendations from the commission will be to increase the state's gasoline tax, which legislators will reluctantly look at it after the November election.
 ''It's pretty obvious that were going to have to go to a gas tax,'' said Assemblyman Alex DeCroce, a Republican from Morris Plains who is on the Transportation Committee. ''I'd like to see an increase, to see a pay-as-you-go program.''
 The gas taxcurrently 10.5 cents per gallonwas last raised in 1988, but in 1998 when Gov. Christie Whitman proposed a five-cent-a-gallon increase, the proposal was met with legislative opposition.
 How much it could be raised now is unclear, though New Jersey has one of the lowest gas taxes in the country. Still, to raise gas taxes to pay, in part, for public transportation projects will be politically tricky in a state in which only 9.6 percent of the population takes the train or bus.
 Indeed, one of the key questions about the Secaucus Transfer Station is whether it will make train travel more attractive.
 Will it mean just another stop for the person going to New York from Towaco? Will it really mean easier access to any part of the state and Manhattan from Bergen and Passaic counties non-existent until now? Or will it simply mean more packed trains on a system that is already straining? The an- swers are yes, maybe, and possibly.
 The new transfer station will most immediately benefit commuters in the New Jersey counties of Bergen and Passaic and the New York counties of Orange and Rocklandthose who take the Bergen, Main, Pascack Valley and Port Jervis lines. Riders who once had to trek into Hoboken and transfer to a PATH train to get to Midtown will now shave about a half-hour off their commute by transferring at Secaucus, according to officials.

An Anchor for 'Smart Growth'
 ''One of the reasons I purposely chose not to live in Bergen County,'' said Mr. Warrington, ''was because railroad access was tortuous to get to Newark'' - where New Jersey Transit headquarters is situated. Anyone who travels the New Jersey Turnpike has seen the new station: a buff-colored behemoth rising incongruously out of the swamp between Exit 15 and 16 on the eastern spur.
 ''What it gives you is for the first time an anchor that can facilitate the right kind of smart growth and development over and around a major transit hub,'' said Mr. Warrington, ''where the entire rail system is connected in New Jersey. Not in New York but in New Jersey. It gives you instant access to all the development that's going on in that area. And it allows access to everything thats going on there from the entire state of New Jersey. Easy simple access.''
 Advocacy groups are equally enthusiastic. ''I think it's going to be a good thing,'' said Mr. Resto. ''The ability to be able to transfer there to get to New York is a positive.''
 But Mr. Robins, from the transportation quality institute at Rutgers, said, ''My guess is that it's going to take some time for this project to catch on. It is not as self-evident to people what the advantages are,'' compared with, say, the Midtown Direct service.
 Mr. Pisarski, the transportation researcher, warned that transfers would have to be extremely smooth at Secaucus for the system to work. ''Unless you can make it absolutely seamless, it's a great way to drive people away,'' he said. ''Every time you ask people to change its hard.''
 And riders who do not live in Bergen and Passaic may well grumble that the new station will simply add a stop and make the trains more crowded during rush houra possibility that Mr. Resto says he has considered.
 ''Those trains are pretty crowded,'' he said. ''The issue is going to become is it going to be worth the ease of transferring at Secaucus and stand. Or say, 'I'm going to go to Hoboken, and it's going to be less crowded.' That's going to be interesting to see.
 From the start, the transfer station has traveled a rocky road. When first approved, the project was part of a public-private partnership that fore saw an office and retail development sitting atop the station. But the developers, Allied Junction of Hackensack, failed to attract investors, and eventually received what critics called a public bailout in 2001 - $84 million from the New Jersey Turnpike Authority. The developers' agreed to pay back more than they got from the state - $140 million, plus interestif the site was developed within 10 years. Other-wise, taxpayers will be left holding the bag.
 Indeed, some state officials are now scoffing at the developers plan, including one insisting on anonymity who called it a ''pipe dream'' to think that 3.5 million square feet of office space could be developed in the Meadowlands.
 Despite the improvements to rail service in recent years - and there have been many - everyone agrees that the key is building a second train tunnel under the Hudson River, something that is estimated to cost $4 billion to $5 billion. Some observers say Mr. Warrington, who for several years ran Amtrak before coming to New Jersey Transit in 2002, has built a political consensus, both in the state Legislature and in Washington, from which approval and much of the money for the project must ultimately come.
 For now, the two-track single tube will have to do, and New Jersey Transit and Amtrak, who share the tube, plan to install what they call a ''high-density interlocking system'' that by next month will let more trains move between Newark and New York, especially during rush hour.
 Just outside of Pennsylvania Station, on 34th Street, Mr. Eichinger, the real estate consultant from Yardville, shouldered his black tote bag and declared that he would be walking to his office at 49th Street and Third Avenue, as he normally does. It's not that faronly 20 minutes, and he doesn't take the subway unless he has to.
 ''Walking,'' he said, ''is the most reliable form of transportation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Starting in June with a series of service disruptions -- 17 in all --the 212,600 commuters who rely on New Jersey Transit every day didn't get what they were paying for, said George D. Warrington, the agencys executive director. Torrential rains caused problems in Newark and in Paterson, top left. Last month, a derailment caused one train to jump the track in Secaucus, middle left, not far from where a station is to open next month. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
(Photo by The Herald News)
(Photo byAssociated Press)
(Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The $450 million Secaucus transfer station, a major rail hub eight years in the making in the marsh between Newark and Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan, will open next month. Eventually it will connect all the active rail lines in the northern part of the state, though initial operations will be limited. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 Several passengers were injured when a New Jersey Transit train derailed last month. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); TRAINS (77%); WEATHER (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); METEOROLOGY (64%) Railroads; Delays (Transportation); Weather ; Rain; Roads and Traffic; Commuting; Railroads

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2004



426 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: FOR YOUNG VIEWERS; 
When a Cheetah Gets Too Big For Her Spots

BYLINE:  By Suzanne MacNeille

 BODY:
LIKE any aspiring music group, the Cheetah Girls yearn for a recording deal and all the things those magical words imply: fame, new clothes, a penthouse and, of course, money. "It will be ka-chink, ka-chink," one starry-eyed performer tells her dubious mother in "The Cheetah Girls," a new Disney Channel movie that had its premiere on Friday and will be shown again tonight and Tuesday night at 8.
 In their headlong pursuit of success, the four multitalented, multiracial high school girls -- Galleria (played by Raven), Aqua (Kiely Williams), Chanel (Adrienne Bailon) and Dorinda (Sabrina Bryan) -- are determined to remain true to themselves and loyal to one another, themes that recur again and again in their original songs. But integrity becomes a laggard in the race toward fame and fortune. 
 Debra Martin Chase, an executive producer of the movie with Whitney Houston, said that what had first grabbed her attention about the "Cheetah Girls" book series, on which the film is based, was the social relevancy of the subject matter: young urban women from a variety of economic and racial backgrounds, struggling to make it to the top. 
 "To me, the Cheetah Girls represent young girls of the millennium," Ms. Chase said in a telephone interview from Toronto. Their unwavering desire to succeed, she added, helps reinforce the idea that "if you have a dream, you can make it come true -- but you can't forget the important things: family and friendship."
 Which is exactly what Galleria, the vivacious leader of the group, does when the specter of instantaneous success materializes in the form of Jackal Johnson (Vincent Corazza), a smooth-talking music producer who arrives on the scene with invitations to his recording studio and promises of "millions." Oblivious to the duplicity of such lavish offers, Galleria allows ambition to eclipse her ideals, and in between bragging sessions at school, she starts assessing her co-performers with a cool, critical eye.
 "Stars don't talk with their mouths full," she snaps at an astounded Aqua in the school cafeteria. And thrown-together outfits are now taboo, she tells Dorinda, a talented dancer who, unbeknown even to her friends, has spent her life in foster care, with little money to spend on the trendy cheetah-print clothes the other girls wear. 
 Like Dorinda, Deborah Gregory -- the author of the "Cheetah Girls" books and a co-producer of the movie -- lived as a foster child in New York, and knows first-hand the shame Dorinda experienced in this scene.
 "To be a foster child involves a lot of uncertainty," she said in a telephone interview from New York. "I didn't want to portray it as negatively as the experience I actually had, but there are a lot of emotions, a lot of danger." 
 Ms. Gregory also shares traits with the hard-driving Galleria, including her ambitions ("I was the leader of the kids in the foster home," she said), her fashion-sense, even her pet (Galleria's Bichon Frise, Toto, is played by Ms. Gregory's dog, Cappuccino). 
 What they don't share, said Ms. Gregory, is Galleria's stable home life, her wonderful singing voice and, she hopes, her lapses in judgment. 
 Raven, the 17-year-old star of the sitcom "That's So Raven," said that in many ways she also identified with the character: "She's trying to get into the industry and I've been that route."
 "But Galleria stepped on friends and family," she said, adding that "I admire her motivation to succeed but not her way of getting there." Suzanne MacNeille

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Cheetah Girls" stars Raven as Galleria (front) and (from back left) Kiely Williams as Aqua, Adrienne Bailon as Chanel and Sabrina Bryan as Dorinda. Below, Raven with Lynn Whitfield as Galleria's mother. (Photographs by Karen Steyr/Disney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FOSTER CARE (86%); INTERVIEWS (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); DANCERS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (67%) Television

COMPANY: DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (57%)

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%) Suzanne Macneille

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



427 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The System Did Not Fail. Yet the System Failed.

BYLINE:  By DANIEL YERGIN and LAWRENCE MAKOVICH; Daniel Yergin is chairman and Larry Makovich is senior director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. With Hoff Stauffer, they are co-authors of the new study "Grounded in Reality: Bottlenecks and Investment Needs of the North American Transmission System."

 BODY:
WHILE Americans have become ever more dependent upon electricity in their daily lives, a crucial part of the system that supports their way of life has not kept up.
 Yes, the country has built more power plants -- enough to create a glut of power in most parts of the country. But the transmission system -- a collection of high-voltage networks that connect the power plants where the electricity is produced to the local distribution companies that deliver it to homes and businesses -- is caught in the middle of the stalled deregulation of the American electric power industry. 
 California's disastrous partial energy deregulation and the role played by Enron and other energy marketing companies in its power crisis have impeded changes in the national ability to deliver power, leaving the system a hybrid of the worst of the old without the best of the new. 
Despite claims in the wake of last week's blackout that the nation has a "third world" power grid, the regional networks that feed its annual 710,000-megawatt appetite are first-world -- and would generally be envied by the rest of the globe.
But in one critical aspect, the system has become increasingly vulnerable: in the interconnections among the different regions. Both the number and size of the wires on the borders between regions are inadequate for the rising flow of electricity. 
This missing part creates the worst bottlenecks in the system. Moreover, the deficiency also includes inadequate coordination among the regions in managing the flow of electricity. These interregional weaknesses are so far the most plausible explanation for the blackout on Thursday. 
What's preventing greater connection and coordination between regions? The technology exists, and is available; the economic benefits of relieving the bottlenecks between regions far exceeds the costs by many billions of dollars.
The problem is with the system of rules, organization and oversight that governs the transmission networks. 
It was set up for a very different era and is now caught in a difficult transition, trying to avoid the pitfalls evident in the California crisis. 
The transmission networks were built to serve a utility system based on regulated monopolies. In the old days, there was no competition for customers. One locality equaled one utility. And state regulatory commissions set prices. 
Today, the mission is to connect buyers and sellers seeking the best deal, irrespective of political boundaries and local jurisdictions. Large industrial customers in the East routinely shop for power in the Midwest.
Over all, for more than a decade, the power industry has been struggling with how to move from the old regulation to the new marketplace. This shift was driven by the view that half a century of state regulation had produced power prices that were too high and too varied among states. Factories and jobs were migrating from states with high electric power prices to those with lower prices.
Yet the power industry is probably not even halfway there in its shift from regulation to the marketplace. The California power crisis and the power-trading scandals sent regulators back to the drawing board, slowing the development of new institutions, rules and investment to make competitive markets work. 
As a result, the development of the regional transmission organizations is erratic. More than one-third of the power transmitted -- primarily in the Southeast and the Northwest -- is not under the control of regional transmission organizations. Some states fear that their cheap power would be sucked away to other markets; others do not want to subordinate state authority to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Power flows relatively easily and with great flexibility within each region. But there are simply not enough heavy-duty wires between the regions. The wires become filled to their capacity, and the system operator has to order reduced output from power plants. The result, at critical moments, can be like a freeway in rush hour. The costs of this congestion, which reduces flexibility, are heavy, measured in many billions of dollars.
What would ease the congestion? American electricity use increased 8 percent over the past four years, while electric generating capacity expanded by 12 percent. Over this same time, transmission investment has ranged from $2 billion to $5 billion a year -- only a fraction of the level needed to keep up with this growing supply and demand.
Transmission itself remains, in economic terms, largely a regulated natural monopoly. Yet it is also the basis of the new market in electric power. Without the ability to send power in different directions to different customers at different times at different prices in response to different demands, there is no market.
So who will make the new investment? It could be a utility that already owns the transmission wires -- though they are managed by the independent regional transmission organizations. The investor might also be an outsider willing to bet on a growth market.
But it's not clear how the potential investor would make a profit. 
One way or another, changes will be needed to ease the flow of capital into transmission and, in turn, ensure the steady flow of electricity to customers. When it comes to the national transmission network, the whole is greater -- and better -- than the sum of the parts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 12:42 a.m., Friday -- Its signature spire was dark, but the Empire State Building was still visible along the Manhattan skyline, illuminated only by moonlight and ferrylight in this time exposure.; 3:46 a.m. -- On West 71st and Broadway, Anne Claitt, from the Bronx, waited for her daughter, who was walking home from Brooklyn. Ms. Claitt gave up after six hours, only to find her daughter at home.; 1:59 a.m. -- At Union Square in Manhattan, it was muggy but festive, as people waited for dawn to break (or lights to flicker) by talking, drinking and even singing. (Photographs by VINCENT LAFORET/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MONOPOLIZATION (60%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Power Lines; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%)

PERSON: Daniel Yergin; Lawrence J Makovich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) California

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



428 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Make-or-Break Period Begins for Edwards As He Woos Iowans 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: IOWA FALLS, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards's campaign bus pulled into the parking lot of the Camp David restaurant here today, delivering him to the ninth of 29 Iowa campaign appearances he has planned over six days, ending on Monday with the Polk County barbecue.
 And in case Iowans miss Mr. Edwards on the ground during what will be the most extended stretch he has spent here as a presidential contender, they can find him on their television sets. Mr. Edwards has taken to the airwaves with an unusually early barrage of commercials, looking engagingly into the camera as he introduces himself as the son of a millworker -- and disparages President Bush as the privileged son of the wealthy. 
 Just three months ago, Mr. Edwards was viewed by many Democrats as a formidable fresh new face, with campaign skills that his aides compared to Bill Clinton's. He had collected enough money at private fund-raisers to establish himself as one of the best financed Democrats in the field, though at the cost of keeping him away from voters. 
But this has become a make-or-break moment for Mr. Edwards.
Amid signs that he is having difficulty finding his place in a crowded field, he now suggests that the reaction to his aggressive schedule of appearances and television advertisements -- here and, next week, with a six-day swing through New Hampshire -- will help determine whether he will proceed with his White House bid, or seek to return to the Senate.
Mr. Edwards said in an interview today that he was confident that voters would embrace who he was and what he was saying. But Mr. Edwards, a North Carolina Democrat, left open the possibility that he might defer his presidential race until another year, and run for re-election in 2004 to the Senate seat he had all but flatly said he was giving up.
"The next two to three months are very important," he said, "because our plan all along was to spend the first seven months focused on fund-raising and developing all the ideas that I wanted to present to the American people, and now I'm out making that case to voters both personally and on television. And yes, I expect it to have an impact." 
Popping M&M's as his two children frolicked around him on the campaign bus, Mr. Edwards said, "I think I'll get a personal feel as to how people are responding to me and my message and what I'm about, and I will start getting some empirical evidence of how people are responding." 
The next two months could provide the answer to what has become the central question of his candidacy: Are the political and personal skills that so many politicians have praised in Mr. Edwards strong enough to overcome what many Democrats see as a light political resume in a contest where experience and stature seem pivotal?
This burst of activity by Mr. Edwards comes as many Democrats have wondered aloud about his slow drift through these early days of the contest, and as pressure has grown on him in North Carolina to make a firm decision so Democrats can field a candidate for his Senate seat. 
"I'm a little despondent that it looks like maybe he's not leading," said Colleen Johnson, an unemployed electronic specialist and Edwards volunteer who said she had telephoned 40 people to go to what turned out to be a modestly attended forum this morning in Mason City. "But there are so many people who still don't know about him."
If his unsteady start has worried some supporters, it has surprised his opponents.
"He was one of the ones I was worried about earlier," said Jerry Crawford, chairman of the Iowa campaign for Senator John Kerry, a Democratic contender. "Not now. The big mystery of this campaign is why he isn't connecting. He's a very talented guy. He's got great raw material."
Mr. Edwards repeatedly, and at times heatedly, dismissed suggestions -- expressed in some cases by Iowans who turned up to see him -- that he looked too young or did not have enough experience to defeat President Bush.
Still, Mr. Edwards may well be the only baby boomer in the nation who makes a point of telling everyone he meets that he just celebrated his 50th birthday. He pointed to his years on the Senate intelligence Committee, as well as the proposals he has made to guard against terrorist attacks in the United States, as evidence of his credibility on the issue of experience. 
"I will have been in the Senate for six years, having visited most of these places in the world, met with these leaders in most places of the world, worked on these issues," Mr. Edwards said. "And as a result I know how the Congress works; I know what needs to be done to get things accomplished in the Congress. But I have not become inside-the-Beltway Washington."
Mr. Edwards said he had deliberately decided to spend the first seven months of this year raising money, following advice he said he received from, among others, a Republican: Senator John McCain of Arizona, who ran for president in 2000. 
He said he did this realizing polls would show him lagging in the field, as they have. These polls tend not to be predictive of the final outcome of the race, but they influence the behavior of campaign contributors, Democratic stalwarts looking for candidates to endorse, and coverage decisions by newspapers and television stations.
"Most voters are still not paying attention, and they will start paying attention in 60 or 90 days," Mr. Edwards said. "And by the way, this is precisely what John McCain told me. This was three months ago -- he said, 'I didn't start moving till the fall.' He said you want to have a clear view of what to say, be able to say it clearly and strongly and spend enormous times in New Hampshire during those last three months."
In many ways, the John Edwards who is now being presented to voters in his television advertisements and campaign speeches -- which vary little from stop to stop -- offers at least some stylistic contrasts with his rivals. Mr. Edwards invokes his father the millworker and his grandmother the sharecropper tirelessly as he attacks Mr. Bush's heritage more harshly than perhaps anyone else in the race. 
"If I was to describe the biggest difference between George Bush and those of us, it is one thing: wealth," Mr. Edwards said to about 30 people in a front yard in Waverly after arriving in a campaign bus that was as long as the house he was visiting. "He comes from a world where wealth is inherited, not earned. In many ways, I am the opposite of George Bush. I'm the walking, living example of the American Dream."
The appeal was clear when he spoke to an Iowa labor forum in Des Moines on Tuesday. 
"As I mentioned earlier, my dad worked in a mill his whole life," he said. "George W. Bush comes from a completely difference place. He comes from a place where wealth is inherited, not earned. He believes that if you take care of people at the top, the whole country does better."
As ferocious as he is on the subject of Mr. Bush, he is in many ways a cautious campaigner. He has avoided mixing it up with his Democratic opponents, saying in an interview that voters are sharp enough to spot the differences between them. Although he voted for the Iraq war, he does not tend to volunteer that position, which is unpopular with many of his audiences around here. But on being asked, he will say: "I take responsibility for it; I stand by it." 
Mr. Edwards said his decision to ground his candidacy in his biography was a way of communicating to voters his commitment to issues like his proposal to expand health care, and improve education by encouraging teachers to locate in disadvantaged areas. There is, though, one part of his life that he does not invoke: the death of his 16-year-old son, Wade, in an automobile accident in 1996.
The subject came up when Mr. Edwards made an unscheduled stop at a picket line at a tannery near Charles City, when he asked one of the striking workers, Wendell Love, how many children he had. Mr. Love told him of losing his fifth child, a daughter, 10, seven years before.
Mr. Edwards's face turned gray. "My oldest one died seven years ago," he said, holding Mr. Love's hand.
"I'm sorry," Mr. Love said. "We can make it. We'll make it."
Mr. Edwards looked back at him. "It's with you all the time," he said.
It is still too early to try to measure how his candidacy is being affected by the television advertisements -- intimate close-ups of a Mr. Edwards, the kind of advertisements that consultants typically run only with the most personable of candidates. At the very least, it is making a man who even his own aides used to complain was a stranger in Iowa more of a familiar figure. 
When Mr. Edwards turned up at that picket line, Mr. Love greeted him with great excitement before telling him about his daughter. "I seen you on TV," he said. "You are a movie star!"
But a more telling response might have come from James Vawn, a retired farmer, who was at the State Fair the other day. Mr. Vawn, who said he was leaning toward Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, said he had seen Mr. Edwards's commercials, and had come away more worried than impressed.
"He looks almost too young to be president," Mr. Vawn said.

THE AD CAMPAIGN
Casting His Lot With the Common Folks

TITLE: "Plan"

PRODUCER: Axelrod and Associates

ON THE SCREEN: Senator John Edwards looking directly at the camera.

SCRIPT: "My grandmother came from a family of sharecroppers. My father worked in a cotton mill all his life, and I helped out there in the summers. I'll never forget the people there. . . ."
"I've spent my whole life working for folks just like them, whose voices are way too often ignored. George Bush, he comes from a very different place. He believes if we take care of folks at the top, that somehow the whole country will be lifted. And now we know the cost; millions of jobs lost, pensions destroyed, the price of health care and college soaring. . . ."

ACCURACY: President Bush has not said he favors the nation's wealthiest; Mr. Edwards seems to base this on tax cuts and tax breaks that benefit mostly those in upper-income levels. Mr. Edwards faults the Bush administration for high unemployment and the rising costs of health care and education, though some of these are arguably beyond the control of White House dictates.

SCORECARD: Mr. Edwards is fresh-faced and seems to look voters right in the eye. The nonglitzy approach succeeds in introducing a candidate not widely known in Iowa or New Hampshire, with a direct, populist message that emphasizes President Bush's more privileged upbringing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Edwards, the presidential contender and North Carolina Democrat, at a campaign stop on Friday in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); BILL CLINTON (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) John (Sen) Edwards; Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



429 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2529 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger's Next Goal On Dogged, Ambitious Path 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB and CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Thirty-five years ago, Arnold Schwarzenegger, an unknown Austrian bodybuilder who spoke only a few words of English, had little money and no acting experience, came to the United States and soon made a prediction: He would become a movie star, make millions of dollars, marry a glamorous wife and wield political power.
 As far-fetched as some of his aspirations might have seemed to some, all of Mr. Schwarzenegger's predictions have come true -- except the last. 
 In stepping into the bizarre race to recall California's governor, Mr. Schwarzenegger, the 56-year-old former Mr. Universe, is seeking to fulfill what he called his "master plan" as he once sat talking with bodybuilder friends at an International House of Pancakes in Santa Monica. 
By all accounts, Mr. Schwarzenegger's drive to succeed was not merely an immigrant's classic up-by-the-bootstraps obsession. It was a calculated effort to turn himself into an invulnerable and powerful (physical and otherwise) figure. He was also a far cry from the skinny Austrian boy whose father, Gustav, a policeman and a one-time member of the Nazi Party, intimidated and sometimes beat him, favoring his other son, Menhard, according to published accounts of Mr. Schwarzenegger's life. (Mr. Schwarzenegger did not attend the funeral of his father in 1972, or that of his brother, who died in a car crash in 1971.)
"What fascinated Arnold was money and power, and what money and power bestow on an individual," said George Butler, producer and director of "Pumping Iron," the 1976 documentary that became Mr. Schwarzenegger's first successful film. 
"The past meant nothing to Arnold because it was over," Mr. Butler said. "He never looked over his shoulder. This is a man of bottomless ambition. It's always been there. Nothing's happened in the last few days that hasn't happened before. He sees himself as almost mystically sent to America."
Mr. Schwarzenegger has long-professed an interest in politics but his run for governor is coming as his movie career is ebbing. From 1982, with the release of "Conan the Barbarian," to 1991, when "Terminator 2: Judgment Day," was distributed, Mr. Schwarzenegger was one of the world's top stars.
But "Last Action Hero," 1992, was a costly flop that began a career slide for Mr. Schwarzenegger. As he grew older, Mr. Schwarzenegger performed in a series of comedies: "Twins" was successful but "Junior" and "Jingle All the Way" were not. More recently, his action films -- "Collateral Damage," "The 6th Day" and "End of Days" -- were box office disappointments. His current film, "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines," has taken in more than $145 million at the box office, but its high costs may not make it very profitable in the United States.
His insatiable appetite for success and his impeccable sense of timing have led him to this moment, says his best friend and former workout partner, Franco Columbu. "He knows how to leave the stage on top," Mr. Columbu said. "He's looking to invent something new."
As a public figure, Mr. Schwarzenegger has a recognizable name that gives him an enormous advantage over most of the 134 other candidates who have been certified to run in the Oct. 7 recall election to replace Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat. 
But the scrutiny of Mr. Schwarzenegger has only begun. So far he has not clarified his positions on most public issues, including offshore oil drilling, the state's budget crisis and immigration. 
On abortion, however, he has said that he is for women's right to choose. On business, he has said he would bring more of it to the state to generate more review. And as for his economic view, Mr. Schwarzenegger was quoted in The Sacramento Bee as saying, "I still believe in lower taxes -- and the power of the free market." 
Mr. Schwarzenegger is also facing nagging questions about his personal life as well as on the details of his finances. 
A detailed profile in 2001 in Premiere Magazine accused Mr. Schwarzenegger of being a habitual womanizer, behaving crudely and cheating on his wife, Maria Shriver. Mr. Schwarzenegger dismissed the assertions as "trash." 
The Los Angeles Times, in a recent investigation of his finances, estimated that his fortune far exceeded $200 million. This included real estate investments and a significant ownership in Dimensional Fund Advisors, a mutual fund company in Santa Monica that manages about $40 billion. 
Mr. Schwarzenegger has climbed a social as well as political ladder. He used his early fame to get acquainted with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. When "Pumping Iron," was released, Mr. Schwarzenegger told the film's publicity agent, Bobby Zarem, that the one person he wanted to meet was Mrs. Onassis. Mr. Zarem spoke to a friend who worked for Mrs. Onassis. A luncheon meeting was arranged at Elaine's in New York to introduce the relatively unknown Mr. Schwarzenegger to Mrs. Onassis, Andy Warhol and others. A photograph of Mr. Schwarzenegger talking to Mrs. Onassis was widely distributed, and his celebrity grew.
"He took seriously his ability to charm and coax people and do exactly what he wanted," Mr. Zarem said. "He knew 25 years ago where he was going."
Mr. Butler, who still keeps in touch with Mr. Schwarzenegger, put it another way. "Arnold is one of the most political people I've ever met," Mr. Butler said. "Everything he does is political. He has an uncanny ability to go to a meeting, get into an elevator, sit down with people in a restaurant, and immediately assess their strengths and weakness. He manipulates."

Stress and Fantasy Growing Up
Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger was born on July 30, 1947, in Thal, Austria, near Graz, and grew up there. His mother was a homemaker. 
Wendy Leigh, author of an unauthorized biography of the actor, wrote this year in an Australian newspaper that the elder Mr. Schwarzenegger had a "brutal temper" and "gloried in pitting his two sons against each other." Arnold usually came out the loser in these boxing and running matches. Mr. Schwarzenegger has said that he was raised "under great discipline."
As a boy, Mr. Schwarzenegger found escape in the movie house and became a fan of Reg Park, a body builder who starred in B Hercules movies. Mr. Schwarzenegger would model his life after Mr. Park's. In his 1977 biography, "Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder," Mr. Schwarzenegger said that Mr. Park became his fantasy "father figure."
Mr. Schwarzenegger said his parents ridiculed him and called his dreams of building his body and becoming a movie star a lazy and nonsensical pursuit. "It was a very uptight feeling at home," Mr. Schwarzenegger said in "Pumping Iron." "I always felt I belonged in America."
Mr. Schwarzenegger's luck turned when he met Joe Weider, who had built a worldwide fitness empire and was the power behind the International Federation of Body Building, which sponsored contests like Mr. Universe and Mr. Olympia. Impressed with Mr. Schwarzenegger's charm and humor, convinced that Mr. Schwarzenegger was the kind of figure who could turn bodybuilding into a mainstream sport, Mr. Weider brought him to America in 1968.
"I knew, and he knew, that he could be great," Mr. Weider said. "We created Arnold. He was special because he was tall, he had willpower, charm and above all he wanted to win."
At 20, Mr. Schwarzenegger became the youngest man to win the Mr. Universe title, the sport's top amateur prize. (He went on to win four more Mr. Universe crowns.) But initially he could not beat Sergio Oliva, for the professional title, Mr. Olympia. He finally dethroned Mr. Oliva in 1969 at a body building competition held at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. 
Mr. Schwarzenegger's movie debut in 1970 was inauspicious. It was the now-forgotten "Hercules in New York" or sometimes called "Hercules Goes Bananas." For the movie, he was renamed Arnold Strong, and played opposite the diminutive actor, Arnold Stang. 

Early Appeal of Republicans
Television stirred Mr. Schwarzenegger's interest in politics, and in particular, Republicans. Mr. Columbu said that he and Mr. Schwarzenegger began watching television news in the late 1960's and decided that Republicans were far more appealing than Democrats.
The Democrats, Mr. Columbu said, reminded them of the dreary socialism they had left behind in Europe. The Republicans, he said they felt, were about hard work, self-sufficiency and a muscular foreign policy.
"We were mad at Europe," said Mr. Columbu, who was born in Sardinia. "We were coming here because we thought America was better than Europe. We liked Nixon because he told Europe it had to pull its weight. Basically, Europe was old and you couldn't get anywhere there. America was the place."
In the early 1980's Mr. Columbu, now a chiropractor, invited one of his patients, Dana Rohrabacher, a speechwriter for Ronald Reagan, to have dinner with the action hero.
"When I first met him, he talked about how much he loved America, how much he admired Reagan," said Mr. Rohrabacher, now a congressman from Huntington Beach. "I remember him saying, 'Dana, some day I'm going to be governor of California and I'm going to call you.' I knew he was a guy going places."
Mr. Schwarzenegger's film stardom led him to meet top Republicans like Mr. Reagan, Vice President George Bush and Pete Wilson, then a senator from California and eventually the governor. Although he keeps a bust of Mr. Reagan in his office, Mr. Schwarzenegger grew especially close to Mr. Bush, admiring his pragmatism and world view and regular style of speech.
Mr. Schwarzenegger's campaign team for the run for governor consists of Mr. Wilson, a Republican whose support for rigid measures to combat illegal immigration contrasted with his moderate approach to abortion and other social issues, and some senior members of his old Sacramento crew, including Bob White, his longtime strategist.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has drawn other powerful and well-know figures to his cause. Warren Buffett, the billionaire financier and a friend of Mr. Schwarzenegger, came aboard as a financial consultant, and George P. Shultz, secretary of state under President Reagan and friend of Mr. Wilson from the Hoover Institute, is helping the campaign.
Also in the foreground is Mr. Schwarzenegger's wife, who is a network television journalist and a member of the Kennedy family, the paragons of Democratic Party politics. Ms. Shriver is said to provide the counterbalance to the Republican strategists. She was said to be displeased with the round of early television show appearances in which her sleepy-eyed husband kicked off his campaign the morning after announcing his intentions on "The Tonight Show" with Jay Leno. As a consequence, Team Schwarzenegger was reshuffled.
"She's looking at it as his wife," said Sheri Annis, a former consultant to Mr. Schwarzenegger. "I don't think she's Hillary Clinton. She's looking to advance Arnold, not herself."
Mr. Schwarzenegger did not vote in the last two presidential elections, according to election records. And over the last 20 years he has given more money to Democrats than Republicans, albeit all of the Democrats are Kennedys.
Some Republican conservatives have held back in supporting Mr. Mr. Schwarzenegger's candidacy. On social policies, at least, Mr. Schwarzenegger seems to hold views that conflict with hard-cover conservatives in the party. His outlook can best be summed up in an interview he gave to The Sunday Telegraph magazine in November 1999 in which he admonished his party members to alter their approach.
The Republican Party, Mr. Schwarzenegger said, "is going to lose until you become a party of inclusion." He went on to say, "that you love the foreigner that comes in with no money, as much as a gay person, as a lesbian person, as anyone else -- someone who is uneducated, someone who's from the inner-city."

Getting Into Power Clique
Mr. Schwarzenegger's thin political resume includes a stint as chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness under the first President George Bush, and sponsor of last year's successful California ballot initiative Proposition 49, which channeled state money into after-schoolprograms. It also introduced him into the Sacramento power clique.
He is involved in numerous charities, including the Special Olympics and the Inner-City Games.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has, in the past, admitted taking steroids to enhance his body building. In 1997, after Mr. Schwarzenegger had heart valve replacements, his doctor said that the damage was not caused by steroid use, but was rather a congenital defect.
Around 1990, at the time he was nominated by the first President Bush to lead the fitness council, and aware that he might seek a political future, Mr. Schwarzenegger went to the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles in an attempt to gauge the political consequences of his father's past. He asked officials at the center to investigate his father's ties to the Nazi Party, during World War II.
"He said that for years his father served in World War II, and he wanted to know exactly what he did," recalled Rabbi Marvin Hier, the founder and dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center.
Rabbi Hier said investigators found that Mr. Schwarzenegger's father had tried to join the Nazi Party in 1938, and was accepted for membership in 1941. He said that investigators found no evidence that the elder Mr. Schwarzenegger had committed war crimes.
"Arnold said, 'What did it mean to be a member of the Nazi Party?' " Rabbi Hier recalled. "I explained, 'Look, any son who finds that his father was a member of the Nazi Party is not something to be proud of.' "
Since then, Rabbi Hier said, Mr. Schwarzenegger and his wife have become very supportive of the Wiesenthal Center and its Museum of Tolerance. He said the couple had been the hosts of numerous fund-raising events at their home and had donated more than $1 million to the center.
"No other star has given that kind of money," Rabbi Hier. "He is a friend not only of the center but the state of Israel."
But Mr. Schwarzenegger and Ms. Shriver surprised their friends by inviting Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general, to their wedding in 1986. At the time, Mr. Waldheim, who was running for president of Austria, was denying accusations that he had concealed knowledge of war crimes committed by his German Army unit in World War II.
Mr. Waldheim did not attend the wedding, but sent the couple an elaborate gift -- life-size papier-mache statues of themselves.
Ms. Leigh wrote in her unauthorized biography of Mr. Schwarzenegger that he startled guests at his wedding with his nuptial toast: "My friends don't want me to mention Kurt's name, because of all the recent Nazi stuff and the U.N. controversy, but I love him and Maria does, too, and so thank you, Kurt."
Mr. Schwarzenegger, who lives with Ms. Shriver and their four children in an estate in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles, is plainly confident that he will triumph in politics. Just as he has triumphed in body building and the movies. As he said in "Pumping Iron": "I was always dreaming of very powerful people, dictators and things like that. I was just always impressed by people who could be remembered for hundreds of years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnold Schwarzenegger with Brig. Gen. Charles W. Fletcher Jr., right, chief of the Third Corps Support Command of the Army, visiting troops in Baghdad on July 4. Mr. Schwarzenegger brought a copy of his new movie, "Terminator 3," to entertain them. (Photo by Reuters); Mr. Schwarzenegger promoted the film that started his movie career, "Pumping Iron," top, in 1977 in Cannes. On April 26, 1986, he married Maria Shriver, a member of the Kennedy family and a television journalist, in Hyannis, Mass. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); POLITICS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%) Elections; Biographical Information; Governors (US); Recall (Elections)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Wiesenthal, Simon, Center

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (94%) Arnold Schwarzenegger; Marvin (Rabbi) Hier; Bernard Weinraub; Charlie Leduff; Franco Columbu; George Butler; Maria Shriver

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (59%) California; California; California

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003 



430 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Neglect of Children 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Beneath Faults of Foster Care in New Jersey, a Grim Burden" (news article, Aug. 12):
 From the articles on this topic, one would almost assume that the blame for all child abuse and neglect should be laid at the feet of the social service agencies. 
 Have we lost sight of the fact that these children are neglected and abused by their parents?
The overworked and underpaid social workers are hardly to blame that these children were born in the first place. Let us hear more about the root causes of all these problems: the constant cuts in financing to family planning agencies and social services of all kinds at the state and city levels, not to mention the lack of affordable housing and increasing unemployment.
Where is the financing from "compassionate conservatives"? These are the children who were supposed to not be "left behind"!

SHEILA RADFORD
Stamford, Conn., Aug. 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); FAMILY PLANNING (53%) Child Abuse and Neglect; Foster Care

PERSON: Sheila Radford

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (88%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



431 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
The Chairman of SK Global Resigns Under Pressure
The chairman of SK Global, the trading firm whose troubles led to South Korea's worst financial scandal in nearly four years, resigned under pressure from creditors eager to give the company a new image while rescuing it from bankruptcy.
 The resignation of Son Kil Seung, one of 10 executives of the SK Group who was convicted of fraud after SK Global misstated its earnings for 2001 by $1.2 billion, goes only part of the way, however, to meeting demands of foreign investors and creditors for a management shake-up. Page C8. 

Stones Permit Online Distribution
Starting today, subscribers to the RealNetworks Rhapsody music service will be able to listen to streaming versions of more than 500 songs by the Rolling Stones, one of the last big-name rock acts to permit its music to be distributed digitally. For an additional 79 cents a song, Rhapsody subscribers can record on CD more than 200 Stones songs that have been released since 1971 by EMI Music's Virgin Records label. C9.

For Those Needing 32 More Bits
The arrival of Apple's Power Mac G5 computers in stores today is a sign the 64-bit microprocessor is ready to surpass the 32-bit norm and improve the capabilities of desktop computers. In the Windows world, companies that make computer chips, like Advanced Micro Devices and Intel, are also part of the transformation. New Economy. C4.

Microsoft said it had thwarted an attack on its Web site by a malicious software program that has infected hundreds of thousands of Windows computers. C4.

Alternative to Wi-Fi Technology
Airgo Networks, a heavily financed Silicon Valley start-up, plans to introduce today an alternative to the popular Wi-Fi wireless data standard for connecting to the Internet, capable of doubling Wi-Fi's already high speed and extending its range. C2.

Swiss Airline Faces a First-Half Loss
The only financial analyst who covers Swiss International Air Lines says he expects a loss of 540 million Swiss francs ($394 million) when it announces its first-half results tomorrow. That is why there will be a sense of urgency when the board meets today. C5.

S.E.C. Fails to Collect Its Fines
The Securities and Exchange Commission has collected $190 million of the $480 million in fines it has levied from 1997 to 2002, according to a report by the investigative arm of Congress. Most of the shortfall stems from a few large cases, many of them still in litigation, the report from the General Accounting Office said. C2.

DVD Piracy Thrives in China
China's galloping market economy has long run rough and ready over copyrights. Movie industry executives and analysts say that in recent years, piracy of American DVD's in China has become more common. It is aided by the spread of the Internet, and computer technology that allows technology-savvy bootleggers to outrun the government's periodic crackdowns. C9.

Low-Carb Version of French Fries
Randy Blaun has found the holy grail of zealots of the Atkins diet: the low-carb French fry. Her patent application reveals that her secret ingredient is cauliflower. Patents. C2.

Another Executive Will Leave Merrill
Sergio Ermotti, co-head of global equity markets at Merrill Lynch, will leave the firm at the end of the year, a spokesman said. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,321.69 up 130.60Nasdaq composite -- 1,702.01 up 57.9810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.53% up 0.26The euro -- $1.1256 down 0.0049The dollar -- 119.14 yen up 0.08

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); STARTUPS (76%); ACCOUNTING (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); EURO (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); WEB SITES (70%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); AIRLINES (61%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SK NETWORKS CO LTD (91%); APPLE INC (90%); EMI GROUP LTD (84%); SK HOLDINGS CO LTD (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (52%)

TICKER: 001740 (KSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (90%); 003600 (KSE) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



432 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: The Bits Are Willing, but the Batteries Are Weak 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
For many Internet addicts, the blackout last week was a rude reminder of just how decisively the vaunted 21st-century digital lifestyle can be laid low by a disruption in 19th-century electrons.
 While hardly enjoyable, being severed from the usual sources of food, water and transportation has occurred in previous power failures. But losing access to the digitized information that permeates our lives -- from work-related records to Google searches to e-mail love letters -- punctured a cherished illusion of the cyberage: that cyberspace is a separate universe, immune from real-world physics. 
 Digital bits are often portrayed as a parallel world. If we do not need bodies to communicate or bookstores to buy books, the intuition beckons, why would we need something as mundane as power cords? 
But under cover of blackout, the digital world revealed itself as very much in electricity's thrall. Surely, it should have been obvious: personal computers do not work when they are not plugged in. Laptops and MP3 players require batteries, as in charged. 
"Power electrons are the mother's milk of the information age and power distribution is a lot more fragile than we imagine," said Paul Saffo, director of the Institute for the Future. "Carry spare batteries."
Yet to judge by the confusion, frustration and occasional acts of desperation during the electricity cutoff, some stalwarts of the information age have not fully grasped that they are subject to something as prosaic as a blown fuse. 
"I was in the middle of writing an important work e-mail," said an aggrieved Mike Pearlstein, an animator drinking lukewarm beer with newly befriended neighbors at a restaurant in the Chelsea section of Manhattan on Thursday night. "I tried to use the batteries, but they weren't working; nothing was working."
When one of his companions observed that had he been glued to his computer, he would not have had the pleasure of meeting them on his apartment stoop that night, he simply said, "I really wanted to send that e-mail." 
Coming just two days after the latest Internet worm, Blaster, caused headaches for many computer users, the blackout further underscored the vulnerability to technology that millions of people have come to take for granted. 
The Internet itself, designed to route around damage and bolstered by a battery back-up at leading telecommunications companies, held up just fine during the power loss. But traffic dipped at eBay, Amazon and other electronic commerce sites because people could not plug in to log on.
"We've transitioned to a computer-based world where we need reliable power," said David J. Farber, a computer scientist at Carnegie Mellon University who was married in New York three minutes before the 1965 blackout. "When things like this happen, our whole information society sits there and sort of shakes because we can't get at it."
For Mr. Farber's son, Manny, 35, the first of his difficulties came when he needed to call colleagues on Friday. He was confident that an antique rotary phone he had would stand in for the fancy cordless one that had been rendered useless by the blackout -- until he realized that the phone numbers he needed were stored on his computer.
"I have a business-card scanner," Manny Farber explained. "I do have backups, but they're on CD's."
As the batteries on his cellphone and digital camera ran low on Friday, Mr. Farber said he was contemplating buying a meal he did not particularly want at a diner in a neighborhood that had power so that he might surreptitiously charge the devices.
With the dependency on electrons beginning to sink in, digital information refugees began to ration the battery power on their portable devices like water. 
Lorna Keuning, 35, of Park Slope, Brooklyn, forced herself to shut down her iBook on Thursday night when the battery meter was in the red so she would have enough charge to check the Internet in the morning. Her first act on waking up to find the power back on was to plug it in. "From now on, I'm always going to make sure it's fully charged," Ms. Keuning vowed. 
The longer-term significance of such temporary inconveniences may be negligible, but experts on Internet infrastructure say it is increasingly important to strengthen the link between the dual grids of electricity and information that power the economy.
Jessica Litman, a law professor who lives in Ann Arbor, Mich., said she kept going halfway up the stairs to her computer to get blackout news online before remembering that her sole news source at that point was the car radio. The experience made her appreciate both the luxury of electric power and the ability to tailor her Internet news delivery.
"A car radio tells me what it wants to tell me," Ms. Litman said. "One of the things I realized was how differently I think about the news."
Sapped of their potency, the sights and sounds of digital devices can become even more conspicuous. In the dark, cellphones served as pale blue flashlights even when they would not connect their callers. Strangers debated the merits of calling plans while constantly hitting redial. 
"Verizon works, Cingular doesn't," declared Paul Likens, 38, holding one phone to each ear at a table outside a Chelsea restaurant.
Their batteries dying, some people plugged cellphones into the cigarette lighters of their cars to make calls. The lucky owners of BlackBerry devices, which rely on an older network than mobile phones, occasionally sent text messages for the less fortunate. 
George Nemeth, of Painesville, Ohio, learned of the blackout during a cellphone call with a friend whose power supplies, connecting several home computers, started beeping the alarms of an unexpected surge. 
Mr. Nemeth, who keeps an online journal known as a Web log or blog devoted to Cleveland-related news, said his immediate impulse was to post the news. But when he got home, there was no power at his house either. 
"It was disturbing," Mr. Nemeth said."But my wife enjoyed it because we actually talked for the whole time. When we have power, we're usually both on the computer."
Indeed, many found the 24-hour respite from computers a welcome break. Debbie Dick, an insurance consultant who lives in Detroit, said she had spent the time reading and grilling outside with her 15-year-old daughter. 
"I look at it as time to relax," said Ms. Dick, 34, as she waited in a line for gasoline on Friday afternoon.
But for those who use high-speed connections to instant-message friends and family, or to shop, work, or get news and sometimes post it themselves, the withdrawal symptoms were acute. 
"Panic sets in when there's a slightest glitch," Jen Chung, editor of the Gothamist Web log, wrote in an e-mail message. "Something like this blackout puts life on hold."
For some bloggers, it was a time for extreme measures. Grant Barrett wrote Thursday evening on his blog, www.worldnewyork.net, "Keeping it short because I'm doing it the old-fashioned way: laptop battery, flashlight and dial-up, the bare necessities." He had just trudged home from Midtown Manhattan to Greenpoint, Brooklyn. "It's now past sundown and the city is black."
Mr. Barrett posted digital pictures, captions and his personal blackout story using a slow dial-up Internet account because his high-speed router required electricity. 
"It's the human communication impulse," Mr. Barrett said by telephone of his compulsion to post under such conditions. "Does that sound too grandiose? It's just some moron typing in the dark."
If so, he was not the only one, although other candlelight bloggers appear to have waited until the next morning to post their accounts. At www.camworld.com, Cameron Barrett (no relation) posted a selected list of New York blogs, covering blackout accounts from playing Monopoly by flashlight to being stuck on the Q train. 
At a time when the zeros and ones of computer communication seem to zip through the ether, weaving in and out of blogs, phones, music players, bank accounts and address books, the idea that digital data operate in their own dimension is seductive.
But until long-promised new fuel technologies -- from fuel cells to mictoturbines to Sterling engines -- liberate cyberspace from the power grid, the digital economy will continue to rely on Thomas A. Edison's technology. 
Ms. Keuning, during an interview late Friday night touching on her battery-saving practices, stopped in midsentence and inhaled sharply as her illuminated laptop screen went dark: 'Oooh, something just happened; we're having a power surge," she said.
Then Ms. Keuning, a media buyer whose blackout blog entry is posted at www.lornagrl.com, breathed out as she realized that she'd made a mistake."My computer just went to screensaver," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SEARCH ENGINE -- Shmuel Aziza, a religious student, found a power source for his laptop in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, on Friday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (67%); ANIMATION (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL); ELECTRONIC MAIL; COMPUTER SECURITY 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR THE FUTURE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



433 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Selling Gadgets in a Wal-Mart World 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

DATELINE: COLONIAL HEIGHTS, Va. 

 BODY:
It is probably just a coincidence, but when Circuit City decided to modernize its store here, it moved a quarter-mile away and built a store just across the street from a Wal-Mart.
 What is far from a coincidence, however, is how much the inside of the new store resembles a Wal-Mart. 
 In this model store, as Circuit City calls it, customers grab merchandise from metal shelves and toss it into shopping carts. The staff on the floor are now hourly workers rather than higher-paid commissioned sales clerks. The front of the store is filled with forklift pallets piled with $45 DVD players and $99 televisions, much as they are in that big store across the street. 
Last year, Wal-Mart nosed out Circuit City as the nation's second-biggest electronics retailer. Now Circuit City intends to take the discounters head-on, but without giving up sales of higher-margin goods.
 Like nearly every other electronics retailer, Circuit City is trying to reinvent itself in an era that has more innovative products and at the same time more brutal competition than ever before. 
The rapid succession of digital entertainment devices -- the DVD, the digital camera, the MP3 player -- should have created a golden age for the stores selling them. But these wonders share a common problem with a previous digital product that had been a hit with consumers: personal computers.
Early in each product's life, prices have fallen and models and features have changed quickly, leaving retailers with expensive, out-of-date inventory. Once that happens, the products become a commodity, and profit margins -- always tight in the electronics business -- became virtually nonexistent.
"We are in the most incredible product cycle of the last 25 years," said Jeffrey Stone, chief executive of Tweeter, a chain of high-end electronics shops. "We are selling a lot of new stuff but we are not making any profit margin on it."
A market filled with high-volume, low-margin products would seem to play to the strength of discounters, especially Wal-Mart, over traditional electronics stores, which have trained sales help to encourage customers to buy fancier models, warranties and other high-margin add-ons. (Who buys a warranty on a $39 DVD player?) 
But the challenges are very different selling the next hot electronics products: high-definition and flat televisions, which can cost as much as $10,000. The fate of the industry rests largely on whether its hourly workers can sell the sets, explaining the bewildering array of formats and technologies. At the same the companies must keeping margins from collapsing, as they have with DVD players.
But the signs are ominous for the retailers. Gateway is making a big push in plasma televisions, and Dell has started to sell them as well. Apex, a brand that helped lead to the collapse of DVD prices, is getting into flat-screen televisions.
And most ominously, Wal-Mart, which already sells high-definition projection televisions, has started testing flat-screen LCD sets and even plasma displays costing almost $5,000, the most expensive item of any sort in the store.
In the face of the threat from Wal-Mart, Circuit City and Best Buy are, in essence, swapping strategies. Best Buy, which became the No. 1 electronics retailer by deciding 10 years ago to convert to a self-service discount model, is now emphasizing more expensive goods and new services like wiring homes for computer networks. 
Best Buy is pursuing this strategy even though smaller chains like Tweeter and Good Guys, which have also focused on the affluent early adopter with a penchant for very large televisions, have had a difficult time. Best Buy will still carry the $39 DVD players, but they will be at the back of the store, not in the front as they are in Circuit City.
Circuit City, meanwhile, is looking more like the old Best Buy, stressing self-service and inexpensive goods, and hoping to eke out a profit at the low end with new private-label electronics brands. Earlier this year, the company dismissed 3,900 of its sales clerks when it eliminated sales-commissioned workers and started paying a flat hourly wage. 
For now, Best Buy is the only major electronics chain that is thriving financially. Two weeks ago, it said it would exceed its previous profit estimates for the third quarter as a result of increased store sales and lower costs.
By contrast, Circuit City reported that its sales at stores open at least a year were down 9 percent in both June and July compared with the previous year. (It also said it would take a loss trying to exit an ill-fated attempt to sell credit cards, unrelated to its store brand, to people with spotty credit.)
Wal-Mart, too, is trying to move away from the lowest-priced electronics goods. It is doubling the size of the electronics departments in its newer stores and stocking more advanced items earlier in their life cycles. Most Wal-Mart stores now carry DVD recorders, home theater systems and dozens of digital cameras.
Wal-Mart's prices for electronics are generally at the same level as, not below, those of other retail chains. But its economics in the business are vastly more favorable. It draws customers with inexpensive groceries, and it makes incremental profits when someone throws a DVD player or a digital camera into the cart as well. 
 And it is selling advanced technology with hourly sales clerks who receive no training in the products. (The hourly workers at Best Buy and Circuit City, by contrast, are given Web sites to study with product features and selling tips.)
"Our customer is getting smarter about technology and wants to buy it sooner," said Gary Severson, Wal-Mart's senior vice president who oversees electronics.
 Moreover, some digital products, particularly at the low end, are standardized around certain specifications without the subtle variations in features and quality of, say, stereo speakers. As a result, Chinese manufacturing plants now produce millions of computers or DVD players, much as they stamp out Barbie dolls and running shoes.
 "The combination of the Chinese manufacturers and the rise of the mass market retailers has been a one-two punch that has hit our industry," said Dave Workman, the president of Ultimate Electronics, a regional chain based in Denver.
 The expansion of Wal-Mart is no small threat to Best Buy, which pioneered the self-service discount approach to selling electronics out of a big box store. The company is responding by gingerly de-emphasizing the cheapest commodity products.
"It says Best Buy on the door and we have to offer the lowest price in the market," Brad Anderson, the company's chief executive, said. "Yet we are willing to sacrifice share in fully commoditized products." 
Mr. Anderson has also sold Best Buy's struggling Musicland chain and now wants to focus on finding ways to get more sales out of the Best Buy brand. That means a new loyalty program, selling products like broadband connections, and making the stores more appealing to women. (For example, it put video games in the appliance department so children will stay occupied while their mother shops for a new dishwasher.)
Mr. Anderson argues that while new digital products may be inexpensive commodities, the company may be able to make money helping customers getting products to work correctly and connect to each other.
One way to do this is to build a network right into new homes: Best Buy is working with several large home builders as a subcontractor, installing video and computer network cabling. Its plan is to have the builder include a basic wiring package in every home in a development and then to try to sell additional features, like in-wall speakers, video security cameras and even a big screen television, all bundled into the home buyer's mortgage.
Best Buy has also moved its repair technicians out of regional centers to walkup counters in all stores. They handle everything from installing hard drives to helping customers get the spam out of their e-mail. And the company recently bought a small company called The Geek Squad, which sends technicians to people's homes.
There is no question that millions of people are perplexed by technology, but it remains to be seen how many will pay $30 to $100 to visit a technician in a store or to $150 to have a member of The Geek Squad dispatched to their living room.
"It may cost $100 to get a product that costs $100 set up," Mr. Anderson said, "but at the end of the day that is what the user has to pay to get something that works."
Circuit City, for now, does not have the luxury of thinking too far into the future. In the 1990's, the company became distracted by its failed effort to create DivX, a variation of the DVD format that could be played for a few days. Then it started the CarMax auto superstore chain, which it spun off to shareholders last year. In the meantime, Circuit City stores languished while Best Buy was building bigger and brighter stores in better locations.
The company's sales and profits from electronics peaked in 1999 and have been heading downward since. It was clear that the stores were a problem, but the solution has been hard to find. It tested some remodeling concepts, but the $3 million cost was prohibitive. After more experiments, it found that moving stores to newly constructed buildings cost only $1.7 million and produced greater sales increases. But finding the right real estate for such relocations is time-consuming.
So this year it will relocate as many as 20 stores, build 10 ones in new locations, and add new fixtures and lighting in many others. The total cost for this year is $150 million. 
The chief executive of Circuit City, W. Alan McCollough, said that these renovations would help reverse the company's lagging sales. "Other folks have a much newer store base than we have," he said, "but that is only a temporary advantage."
The other main element of Circuit City's plan to fight Wal-Mart is to take more direct control over low-priced merchandise. It is increasingly trying to buy products directly from factories in China rather than through companies like Apex. Last year it hired Kim Maguire, a senior executive at Target Stores, to be its chief merchant. 
And just as Target battles Wal-Mart with can openers designed by Michael Graves, Circuit City is also developing several private label brands of electronics. Two new MP3 players are now selling under the Verge brand. 
Some wonder whether Circuit City is emphasizing the mass market just when the rise of new televisions, home networks and the like would be well suited to its previous higher-end strategy and commissioned sales force. 
"Of the 20 million DVD players sold this year in the United States, over half will be sold at $50 or less," Mr. Maguire said. "We can't ignore half the market. That is what gets the feet in the door."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE FLOOR -- Camcorders at a Circuit City store in Norwalk, Conn. The company is revamping amid brutal competition and slim profit margins. Last year Wal-Mart nosed out Circuit City as the second-largest seller of consumer electronics. Best Buy is the largest. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Circuit City is emphasizing self-service and new private-label brands as it aims to eke out a profit on low-margin products. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "A Buyer's Market"As prices on electronics quickly fall to levels that many consumers can afford, retailers must rely on sales volume, not profit margin, to survive. Graph tracks prices for a standard DVD player* from 1997-2003. Graph tracks prices for 41-to 43-inch plasma display* from 1998-2003. *Average prices (Source by NPD Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CD & DVD DRIVES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SALES COMPENSATION (75%); COMMISSION PAY (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (67%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) ELECTRONICS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); RECORDING EQUIPMENT; DISCOUNT SELLING; SALESMEN 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: BEST BUY CO; CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC; WAL-MART STORES INC 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (93%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (93%) SIC5731 RADIO; SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



434 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: CONGRESS; 
Federal Standards for Utilities Face Partisan Hurdles

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
The Bush administration called on Congress today to impose immediate standards for electricity reliability on utilities to prevent further power blackouts, but Congressional leaders gave little sign that the disputes holding up such standards were near a resolution.
 Spencer Abraham, the secretary of energy, said the nation needed to move quickly away from a system where utilities decided how to respond to power failures to one of federal standards. Electrical experts said last week that the patchwork of standards could explain why some regions were able to avoid the blackout on Thursday while others were not. Strict federal standards could also prevent utilities from overloading transmission lines. 
 "We need to pass an energy bill that gives the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the authority to impose mandatory reliability standards," Mr. Abraham said on CNN's "Late Edition." "The people who use the system have to adhere to high standards of conduct, or be punished if they fail to do so."
Those standards have been included in energy bills before Congress for several years but have been held up by partisan disputes over the administration's desire to drill for oil in the Alaskan wildlife refuge and other environmental issues. Democrats today called on the administration and Congressional Republicans to drop the drilling provision from an energy bill that is now in a House-Senate conference committee so the power standards can be quickly approved. 
"This issue has been held hostage to the Republican agenda of trying to drill in the most pristine wilderness, environmentally sensitive areas of the country," Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said on CNN. "We could have broken this issue off three years ago, five years ago. But they refused to allow it to move as a separate piece of legislation."
But Republicans appeared reluctant to separate the issues, for fear that the controversial provisions might not pass if they were not tied to the electrical standards that are widely considered vital. Mr. Abraham said it would be a mistake to drop the drilling issue, asserting that the nation needed more fuel to power its electrical plants. And the House Republican leader, Tom DeLay, appearing on "Fox News Sunday," blamed Democrats for blocking the energy bills, which he said might have prevented the blackout had they not been opposed by "environmental extremists."
Talks on the energy bill are likely to resume promptly when Congress returns after Labor Day. Each chamber has already passed a separate version, and negotiators will be under pressure to respond to the blackout by setting aside more difficult disputes.
Mr. Abraham said there was no need for immediate action on a separate provision in the energy bill that would impose federal standards on the economic side of the utility industry, moving away from a system in which state regulators determine how much power companies can make in generating and transmitting electricity. Many experts have said the current system discourages utilities from investing in new transmission lines and improving their connections to other grids. Mr. Abraham said it was more important to first agree to uniform technical standards. 
Technical standards for preventing failures are recommended by a voluntary industry group, the North American Electric Reliability Council, and today the president of that group, Michehl R. Gent, said he needed federal authority to make those standards mandatory.
"We've been trying for the last couple of years to have some help from Congress to allow us to enforce reliability rules," Mr. Gent said on ABC's "This Week." "If there's a violation of the rules, we need to be allowed to enforce those rules."
Regarding economic regulation, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who was energy secretary during the Clinton administration, said Congress had been swayed by the lobbying of electric utilities that prefer state rather than federal regulation of rates and profits.
"There are a lot of lobbies in the utility industry that like to keep the status quo so that they can keep making profits," Mr. Richardson said on CNN. "And as a result, our systems, our electricity grid, is overloaded with power." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); WILDERNESS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); WILDLIFE (66%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%); OIL EXTRACTION (66%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); US LABOR DAY (60%) Electric Light and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Wilderness Areas; Power Lines; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Law and Legislation; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (58%) David Firestone; Spencer (Sec) Abraham; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (70%) Alaska; United States; Arctic National Wildlife Refuge

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



435 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Governors Unite to Urge Shifting Costs Of Medicaid 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
Nothing concerns state governors more these days than their state budgets, and nothing is driving their deficits deeper, they say, than rising Medicaid costs.
 With only three states showing a budget surplus, all 50 governors have lined up in a rare show of unity to support a provision of the House prescription drug bill that would shift as much as $7 billion in costs to the federal government to cover more than six million people known as "dual eligibles." The title refers to people who qualify for prescription coverage under both Medicare, the federal program for the elderly, and Medicaid, the federal-state partnership for the poor. 
 Under a competing Senate bill, the costs for those six million people would be shared by Washington and the states, creating the possibility of different benefits in different states. This approach, the governors say, would certainly lead to cuts in other vital programs to offset the prescription costs. 
The two bills are headed for conference where negotiators are expected to work out differences after Congress returns next month from its summer recess.
"This is the highest priority of governors at this juncture of Congressional issues," Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky, a Democrat and chairman of the National Governors Association, said today at the association's summer meetings, where governors were drumming up support for the House provision. "Seldom do we operate in unanimity, but on this issue, all 50 governors are united."
The governors' campaign for the House approach to drug coverage began two weeks ago with a letter to Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, urging him "to give special attention" to the impact of the bill on those who would be affected. All 50 governors signed it.
A handful of governors here appeared at a news conference today to build the case, arguing that the House bill reflects a standardized approach to providing drug benefits to elderly Americans, regardless of their income. They said Medicare recipients whose health problems erode their income to a level that makes them eligible for benefits under Medicaid should not have to risk receiving any less comprehensive coverage offered by the states.
"We think as a matter of fundamental fairness," Mr. Patton said, "that one group of Americans should not be moved into another class of benefits when they become poor because their illnesses have exhausted all of their resources."
An analysis by the governors association of state health care costs predicted that without shifting the prescription drug coverage to the federal government for the six million people, states would be forced to spend an additional $100 billion over 10 years, a period in which millions of people will reach retirement age and place new strains on the nation's health care system.
Such huge expenditures are about the last thing governors say they want to think about these days. New federal education programs, like No Child Left Behind, and demands for domestic security costs have placed added pressure on state treasuries, helping sap most states of their reserve funds and forcing many to cut spending in a variety of agencies. 
In separate news conferences here on Saturday, Democratic and Republican governors described tough economic times, with revenues falling and unemployment rising. While Republican governors said Bush administration policies, like the recent tax cuts, have led to recent improvements in the economy, Democrats cited the same policies to argue that nothing has really changed.
"Our economy is stuck in neutral," said Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, a Democrat.
In either case, governors of both parties said here that with soaring Medicaid costs already straining their state budgets, a law requiring the states to provide prescription drug coverage for the most vulnerable of the elderly would inevitably lead to scaling back other programs.
Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, a Republican, said health care costs are about 20 percent of state spending, compared with the other most expensive categories, education (65 percent) and public safety (10 percent).
But with health care costs growing at the fastest rate, as much as 8 percent a year, he said: "At some point, there is a collision course with essential services like education. I don't see the rationale for the federal government not to cover all citizens who are over 65." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); AGING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HEALTH CARE (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STATES (US); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; MEDICAID 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



436 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

U.S. Sets Sea Exercises As a Signal to North Korea
The Bush administration, while preparing for talks soon with North Korea, is also stepping up military pressure with plans for a joint naval exercise next month to train for interdicting arms and other materials at sea that are being transported to and from the North. One intention is to send a signal to North Korea to dismantle its weapons program. A1

More Attacks in Iraq
In a turbulent 12-hour stretch this weekend, a pipeline supplying much of Baghdad's water was blown up, a huge new fire was set off along an oil pipeline, and a mortar attack on a prison left 6 Iraqis dead and 59 wounded. The attacks raised new concerns that the insurgents who havebeen singling out American soldiers may be widening their strikes to include civilian targets and economic sabotage. A1

The dead from around the Shiite Muslim world are again welcome at the holy Valley of Peace cemetery. It has been the sacred burial ground of choice for Shiite Muslims for more than 1,000 years, but they had been banned by Saddam Hussein. A8

New Terror Threat Seen
American investigators see signs of a new type of Qaeda sympathizer in the case of Uzair Paracha and his father, Saifullah, both affluent Pakistanis with a history of shuttling in and out of the United States. The younger Mr. Paracha is charged with trying to help an associate of Al Qaeda enter the United States. His father, perhaps the prime suspect in the case, disappeared in July. A9

Arab-Israeli Talks Stall
Israeli and Palestinian commanders failed to reach an agreement over Israel's planned transfer to Palestinian security control of two West Bank cities, even though both sides had shown some new flexibility to try to thwart a feared outbreak of violence. Negotiators said they would meet again tomorrow. A3

Iceland's Whaling Effort
Three ships commissioned by Iceland's government left port to hunt for 38 minke whales over the next six weeks, despite the protests of conservationists and several governments. Iceland says the hunt is intended for scientific research, but Britain and the United States have labeled it unnecessary. A2

Abstinence at a Cost in Uganda
Uganda's anti-AIDS approach emphasizes abstinence, but young women are propositioned just about every day by older men who offer them a chance of a better life in exchange for sex. Sex presents them an opportunity for making money. Poverty, it seems, can weaken even those with the most resolve. A4

Liberian Archbishop's Warning
The Roman Catholic archbishop of Liberia, Michael Kpakala Francis, has called for the United Nations to send thousands of additional troops to help save Liberia from those who want to rule it. He denounced Liberia's past leaders and pretenders to power, and warned against the warring factions now haggling over an interim government. A3

NATIONAL A10-13

Midwest Power System Showed Signs of Burden
Problems on the grid of power lines have become more frequent in the last few years, and a series of reports, both by the industry's own quality-control offices and government agencies, urged more care in pushing the limits of the system. So when an hourlong series of line failures and plant shutdowns suddenly exploded on Thursday into North America's biggest blackout, few experts were surprised. A1

The Bush administration called on Congress to impose immediate standards for electricity reliability on utilities to prevent further power blackouts, but Congressional leaders gave little sign that the disputes holding up such standards were near a resolution. B6

Power came back on for the parts of the Midwest and Canada affected by the though some problems lingered. B8

Support for Bush Fractured
The Republican wall of support in the South is showing cracks, reflecting economic trends that Democrats say make President Bush vulnerable. Some conservative Southerners, who helped Mr. Bush win the White House, say they are angry enough about job losses to vote for someone else in 2004. A10

A Spike in West Nile Cases
A rainy spring and the hotter-than-average summer that followed have helped bring an unexpected distinction to Colorado: the state has the worst outbreak ofthe West Nile virus in the nation this year. A1

A Move Back to Politics
Thirteen years after he last held elected office, Andrew J. Young Jr. -- the former pastor, civil rights leader, congressman, mayor and ambassador -- is eyeing a new title: United States senator. The Democratic Party wants him to retain the seat that Senator Zell Miller of Georgia will vacate. A13

Governors Seek Relief
All 50 governors have lined up in a rare show of unity to support a provision of the House prescription drug bill that would shift some costs to the federal government. A10

Medical Residents at Issue
The nation's medical establishment seeking legislation that would derail an antitrust suit contending that residents in hospitals are forced to participate in a system that ensures long hours and low pay. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Inmates Win Ruling On Religious Freedom
A judge in a U.S. District Court in Manhattan recently ruled that an inmate who is a Five Percenter, part of a black militant group that broke from the Nation of Islam in the 1960's, was entitled to the same religious freedoms as the thousands of practicing Jews, Muslims, Christians, Hare Krishnas and Wiccans incarcerated in New York State's prisons. B1

Party Donations Favor Judges
Despite years of criminal scandals, charges of manipulated elections and repeated calls for reform, the state's system for selecting judges has not changed, and the boroughs' Democratic machines continue to rely on the local courthouse culture for their financial lifeblood, an analysis of party finances has found. A1

EDUCATION

School Budget Questions
Principals citywide have been grappling with a budget process championed by Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein as a way to bring transparency and equity to a system he says was marred by favoritism and political gamesmanship. But parents and others have largely been left scratching their heads about who wins or loses under the plan. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

A Big First Win
Shaun Micheel made his first PGA tour win in 163 tries a memorable one with a victory in the PGA Championship. Micheel finished four under par for the tournament, two strokes ahead of Chad Campbell. D1

OBITUARIES B9

ARTS E1-8

Orchestra Deal Ongoing
As the New York Philharmonic pursues a merger with Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center is negotiating hard, emphasizing the orchestra's legal obligations under its current lease, making some wonder if those obligations could delay or even derail the deal. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Circuit City Does Wal-Mart
Last year, Wal-Mart nosed out Circuit City as the nation's second-biggest electronics retailer. Now Circuit City is trying to reinvent itself in an era that has more innovative products and at the same time more brutal competition than ever before, by following the Wal-Mart model. C1

Summer Ratings Stay Put
While the broadcast networks had big plans to woo summer viewers back from the tempting new offerings on cable, they are posting about the same numbers they scored last summer, despite new original scripted programming and reality shows. C1

A Faster, Broader Wi-Fi
Airgo Networks plans to introduce an alternative to the popular Wi-Fi wireless data standard for connecting to the Internet, capable of doubling Wi-Fi's already high speed and extending its range. C2

SK Global's Chairman Resigns
The chairman of SK Global resigned under pressure from creditors eager to give the companya new image while rescuing it from bankruptcy. Son Kil Seung was one of 10 executives of the SK Group convicted of fraud after SK Global misstated its earnings for 2001 by $1.2 billion, leading to South Korea's worst financial scandal in four years. C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The cascade stops here; preventive medicine; South Africa addresses AIDS; Adam Cohen on constitutional progress and the Bush judicial nominees.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E6
Crossword E4
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (70%); CEMETERIES (67%); WHALING (66%); FIRES (55%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBERIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (92%); UGANDA (92%); ICELAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



437 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Governors Unite on Health
All 50 governors support a measure that would shift as much as $7 billion in costs to the federal government to provide drug coverage to people who are both poor and elderly. PAGE A10

City Rediscovers Its Shores
Despite economic hard times, developments are proliferating along New York City's shoreline as cleaner waters have encouraged revitalization projects. PAGE B1

Selling Gadgets a New Way
As more consumer products turn digital, stores like Circuit City and Best Buy are facing falling prices while trying to fend off the likes of Wal-Mart. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Surprise Takes P.G.A. Title
Shaun Micheel's shot from the rough on the 18th hole of the season's final major stopped just inches short of the cup, leading to a birdie and his first career victory. PAGE D1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



438 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Company Loyalty and America's Loss of Jobs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In writing about our jobless "recovery," Paul Krugman does not mention that our loss of jobs is due in part to changing company philosophies on hiring and firing ("Twilight Zone Economics," column, Aug. 15). 
 Devoting one's life to a company once meant something. Now, in the name of cost-cutting, long-term employees are too often the first to go. Some are not replaced. 
 Companies now fill too many jobs with lower-cost temporary workers so they do not have to provide costly company benefits. To take advantage of cheaper labor costs overseas, companies are exporting jobs to foreign countries at an alarming pace.
Rather than hire new employees, companies are forcing those who are lucky enough to have jobs to work longer hours to make up for work formerly done by fired employees.

CLAUDE M. GRUENER
Austin, Tex., Aug. 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); DISMISSALS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%) United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion; Recession and Depression; Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Claude M Gruener; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



439 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Company Loyalty and America's Loss of Jobs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 15) describes the loss of 50,000 American jobs every month and the need to create 110,000 new jobs every month just to keep up with population growth. 
 So why are we compounding the problem and making economic recovery more difficult by continuing to take in millions of immigrants every year and acquiescing in about 12 million illegal immigrants remaining in our country?
Importing workers is worse than exporting jobs because those immigrants and all their descendants are added to our skyrocketing population growth.

THOMAS P. MCKENNA
Montpelier, Vt., Aug. 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); JOB CREATION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (86%); REFUGEES (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Thomas P Mckenna; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (72%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



440 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Attacks in Iraq Might Be Signs Of New Tactics 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY and ROBERT F. WORTH 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
In a turbulent 12-hour stretch, a pipeline supplying much of Baghdad's water was blown up this weekend, a huge new fire was set off along an oil pipeline, and a mortar attack on a prison left 6 Iraqis dead and 59 wounded.
 The attacks raised new concerns that the insurgents who have been singling out American soldiers may be widening their strikes to include civilian targets and economic sabotage. The explosion at the water pipeline was the work of saboteurs, investigators said, and the fire along the pipeline appeared suspicious as well. 
 It occurred near the spot in northern Iraq where saboteurs on Friday blew up another part of the pipeline, which carries Iraqi oil into Turkey. 
The mortar attack occurred shortly before midnight Saturday at Abu Ghraib, a prison that became notorious during Saddam Hussein's rule for its terrible conditions and for the torture and execution of political prisoners. Some of its current prisoners are suspected of being part of the violent insurgency against American forces by members of the former government. Shortly before midnight, three mortar shells were fired into the prison compound, where inmates were being held in tents.
At the prison this afternoon, a Reuters cameraman identified as Mazen Dana was shot and killed by a soldier, a spokesman for the occupation said. Reuters reported that Mr. Dana, 43, a Palestinian, had been filming outside the prison when he was shot by a G.I. in a tank.
Officials said the motives for the mortar attack on the prison Saturday were unknown, as was the identity of the attacker. But they suggested that the shelling, like the sabotage of pipelines, might be part of the larger effort to destabilize Iraq and drive out Americans. Samir Shakir Mahmoud Sumaidy, a member of the new Iraqi interim government, the Governing Council, condemned the attack after visiting some of the victims who had been taken to an American military hospital.
"Attacking prisoners is just unexplainable and completely incomprehensible," he said. "The only deduction I have is that these attackers have lost their way. They have no strategy. They just want to create mayhem, create chaos.
"This will certainly not hasten the departure of coalition forces. In fact, it will probably increase the time of their staying here," he said.
The sabotage of the water pipeline was the first such strike against Baghdad's water system, city water engineers said. It happened around 7 this morning, when a blue Volkswagen Passat stopped on an overpass near the Nidaa mosque and an explosive was fired at the six-foot-wide water main in the northern part of Baghdad, said Hayder Muhammad, the chief engineer for the city's water treatment plants.
Instantly, jets of high-pressure water shot into the air and began flooding the roadway below, which links Palestine Street to the Adhamiya neighborhood. The break left residents with little or no water most of the day in about 10 neighborhoods covering a large part of the city. 
Water continued to pour from the jagged two-foot-wide hole in the main this afternoon, and hundreds of children and young men were swimming and splashing.
"Most of the area will be without water, and now people will start saying the Americans did this," said a bystander, Hissan Baghdadi, 35. "But it has nothing to do with the Americans at all. It was Iraqis who did this."
The deputy mayor of Baghdad, Faris Abdul Razaq al-Aasam, said workers were trying to restore water as soon as possible. City engineers warned that there could be some problems for several days.
As the fire at the oil pipeline burned this afternoon in northern Iraq, sending black smoke nearly three miles high northwest of Mosul, occupation officials in Baghdad noted that they had recently signed a contract with a private firm to hire 6,500 guards for Iraq's oil facilities. After the pipeline was shut down Friday by an explosion and fire, officials said that it would take perhaps two weeks to repair the damage and that the loss of the pipeline was costing Iraq $7 million per day.
In southern Iraq, a Danish soldier and two Iraqis were killed in a firefight Saturday night about 30 miles north of Basra, Danish military officials said. It was the first military casualty for the Danish.
The firefight broke out in the town of Medina when a Danish patrol tried to prevent Iraqis from stealing electrical cables, said Lt. Col. Jens Kofoed, a Danish military spokesman. Two Iraqis were killed along with the soldier, Lance Cpl. Preben Pedersen, Colonel Kofoed said. 
The incident is being investigated, and it is possible that Lance Cpl. Pedersen was killed accidentally by one of his fellow officers, Colonel Kofoed said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqi children played near a gap in northern Baghdad's water main yesterday, after a bomb blast cut off water to most of the capital. (Photo by Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A8); American troops inspected a damaged water main in Baghdad yesterday as young Iraqis cooled themselves. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); FIRES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); PRISONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TORTURE (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); WATER QUALITY (60%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; WATER; PIPELINES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SABOTAGE; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: REUTERS PLC 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) TIERNEY, JOHN; WORTH, ROBERT F; DANA, MAZEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); TURKEY (79%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ); ABU GHRAIB (IRAQ); DENMARK

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



441 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Going Near the Water; 
Renovation Efforts Reclaim the City's Forbidden Shoreline

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
One morning last week, Zoe Klein, a 24-year-old circus performer from Brooklyn, stood practicing her act, which involved swinging a pair of tethered balls, and stared out to the Hudson River.
 "Growing up in New York, I always felt boxed in," she said. "I always knew we were surrounded by water, but it always felt dirty or inaccessible." 
 Actually it was not too long ago that the stretch of waterfront where she was standing was dirty and inaccessible. But it has been recently reclaimed as part of the Hudson River Park project, a lengthy effort to upgrade the West Side riverfront and install miles of landscaped public space and freshly paved pathways for runners, bikers and skaters. 
Although traffic was heavy on the nearby West Side Highway, Ms. Klein said she considered the spot on the western fringe of Greenwich Village an oasis of serenity. "I come here all the time, to counteract the stress of living in the city," she said.
Things are changing along New York's waterways and waterfront, and Ms. Klein is not the only one noticing. City residents are now zealously embracing the waterfront.
Yoga groups convene on a Hudson River promenade just south of West 72nd Street on what was once a fallow railyard. Fishermen are casting for schools of striped bass off the Battery. And the Downtown Boathouse offers free kayaking programs. 
"New York is a water city -- we're the Venice of the East Coast -- but for a good part of the 1900's, the city turned its back on the waterfront," said John Waldman, the senior scientist with the Hudson River Foundation. "Now we're turning around and discovering it."
Cleaner waters have encouraged many revitalization projects along the city's 578 miles of shoreline. Despite economic hard times, waterfront development projects are proliferating from Staten Island to the Bronx.
"The development of the waterfront is one of the Bloomberg administration's most critical economic and neighborhood priorities," said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding. "With maritime industry uses gone or fading, we can reclaim parts of the shoreline. We have a once-in-a-century opportunity to reclaim New York City's waterfront, so we're seeing a lot of things beginning to come together."
In Manhattan, progress is being made on the $400 million Hudson River Park park project to reclaim five miles of ramshackle waterfront from Battery Park City to 59th Street. There are also plans to revitalize the Harlem Piers, renovate Fulton Street and create a "Champs-Elysees"-style promenade on West Street.
In Queens, the Queens West project has two residential towers up and another planned, and there are proposals to create new access to Jamaica Bay and the Flushing River waterfront. The city hopes to create a waterfront Olympic Village for 2012 in Long Island City.
In Brooklyn, plans to develop 1.3 miles around the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges into commercial and recreation space are on tap, as is a revitalization project for a 1.6-mile stretch of industrial waterfront in Greenpoint and Williamsburg.
In the Bronx, there are plans to redevelop the waterfront near Yankee Stadium and the Bronx River. In Staten Island, city officials hope to redevelop the former Homeport Navy site, and a new pier at South Beach is almost complete.
Four of New York City's five boroughs are part of an urban archipelago. This was one of the big draws for the Dutch, who built wharves in southern Manhattan in the 1600's. As commercialism began to grow, waterfront structures began blocking views and access. And the less-than-savory sailors and dock hands made the waterfront synonymous with mob activity, prostitution and crime. 
So New Yorkers avoided the water, wrote Luc Sante in "Low Life," his book on New York's underbelly. Mr. Sante noted that Fifth Avenue became the most desirable residential address because it was farthest away from the Hudson and the East River.
Early in the 20th century, highways were built blocking the shoreline, which was thick with freighters and ocean liners. The fishing industry declined as the waters became more polluted. Foul water also meant the end of Whitehall rowboats off the Battery and grand boathouses and swim clubs with staircases descending into the water.
"For generations, the river was considered an unpleasant place to go," said the city's parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe. "It was where you put slaughterhouses and where poor kids went to swim."
By midcentury, manufacturing began to decline and many piers became inactive. Still, the city's nautical life was reduced to tiny pockets, like Broad Channel and City Island.
But the federal 1972 Clean Water Act and better sewage treatment practices improved water quality. Starting in the 1980's, industrial waterfront stretches began to be redeveloped into residential or recreational areas, including Battery Park City and Chelsea Piers.
The once dying ferry industry has recently been revived. Developers and city officials continue to see new opportunity in the old wharfs and dilapidated shoreline buildings.
So New York is finally shaking off a legacy of the padlocked waterfront, and undergoing a "mindset change," said Raymond Gastil, author of "Beyond the Edge: New York's New Waterfront" (Princeton Architectural Press, 2002).
"The idea that you can go kayaking off a pier in downtown Manhattan is a pretty bold expectation," he said, "but one that is being realized."
Carter Craft, program director of the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, a division of the Municipal Art Society that advocates for more public access to the shoreline and more water transit, said that the "change in New Yorkers' consciousness" certainly helps economic revitalization. But he said that waterfront parks should do more than just lead people to the water. "There are still relatively few ways for Manhattan Islanders to actually interact with the water," he said. "The current park designs are not as boater-friendly as they should be. The waterfront should not be an edge, but rather a gateway."
Even as a work in progress, the transformation of the waterfront is something the city is pretty proud of. The Parks Department is planning an opening ceremony later this month for an interim bike path around the perimeter of Manhattan.
"Opening the waterfront for recreational use in the 21st Century is as important at the creation of Central Park, Prospect Park and Riverside Park in the 19th Century," said Mr. Benepe of the Parks Department. 
Last week, Jose Gerald, 65, a retired merchant seaman from Carroll Gardens, was fishing off the Valentino Pier in Red Hook
Mr. Gerald, who moved here from Puerto Rico, has been fishing at this spot for 45 years, looking for blackfish, blues, porgies and striped bass.
"Forty years ago, the water was filthy," he said. "Now it's beautiful. Before nobody wanted to eat the fish. Now everybody wants to eat the fish. Now you even see some kids swimming over here some times. I don't know the name, but the fishing ducks are back."
The same day, a man sat on the waterfront in upper Manhattan with no fishing pole, but rather a bottle of beer in his hand.
The man, a pay phone repairman named Robert K. Morton, sat ata table set outside at the Tubby Hook Cafe at Dyckman Street and the Hudson River. The cafe offers spectacular views of the river, of the George Washington Bridge and the Palisade cliffs.
"When you sit out here, you don't think you're in Washington Heights," Mr. Morton said, squeezing a lime into his beer. "I work for the phone company and I get to go all over. It doesn't get any better than this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kayaking trips begin at Pier 26 in Lower Manhattan. The pier has undergone recent renovations.; Runners at Stuyvesant Cove Park, a renovated waterfront on East 20th Street and the East River. Many stretches of New York City's shoreline are being revitalized. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A view of the East River at Stuyvesant Cove Park. Development of the waterfront is one of the Bloomberg administration's priorities. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CITIES (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (86%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); RIVERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MAYORS (73%); YOGA (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); FISHES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Housing

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Hudson River; East River (NYC); New York Harbor

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



442 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TO SEND SIGNAL TO NORTH KOREANS IN NAVAL EXERCISE 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Monday, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, while preparing for talks soon with North Korea, is also stepping up military pressure with plans for a joint naval exercise next month to train for interdicting at sea arms and other materials being transported to and from the North.
 Administration officials and Asian diplomats said that the exercise would be carried out in the Coral Sea off northeastern Australia in September and that it was officially described as directed at no one country. A principal intention, however, was to send a sharp signal to North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons program, they said. 
 The next round of talks with North Korea is planned for Aug. 27 in Beijing, with six nations taking part. The United States has been working with its allies to decide which items to present, from economic benefits to security guarantees, that would be provided if the North Korean government agreed to shut down its program verifiably and irreversibly. 
North Korea said today that unless the United States changed its policy toward it, the North would use the talks to declare that it could not dismantle its nuclear weapons program.
The official North Korean news agency said such a change in American policy must include the signing of a nonaggression pact, the establishment of formal diplomatic relations and a guarantee that the United States would not interfere in North Korea's foreign trade.
The United States has stepped up efforts with Japan, South Korea and nine other nations to interdict ships doing business with North Korea. Last December, Spanish warships stopped a North Korean ship carrying Scud missiles to Yemen, but released it after Yemen protested 
"We are not saying which countries are being targeted, because it would not be politically wise," said an Asian diplomat, referring to the September naval exercise. "But the American government believes that one of the reasons why North Korea has agreed to the six-party talks in Beijing is that they are feeling the pinch."
An American official said the Coral Sea exercise would consist in part of ships and helicopters practicing the "nonpermissive boarding" of ships suspected of carrying drugs, missile components, nuclear materials and other items that the United States says are being imported or sold by North Korea.
Some diplomats are known to worry that exercises like the one in the Coral Sea might be seen as provocative by the government of Kim Jong Il in North Korea, and perhaps by China and Russia, which oppose confrontational tactics toward North Korea.
But administration officials said it was essential for the United States to have a more aggressive policy aimed at preventing North Korea from obtaining materials for its nuclear program or from selling missile parts, drugs or other contraband to get hard currency to pay for its weapons.
The Coral Sea naval exercise "has not surfaced as much of a factor" in negotiations with North Korea, an administration official said, adding: "If laws are broken or our national security is threatened, then everyone should recognize that we need to take that seriously. We are taking these steps to protect our own societies."
A Pentagon official said planning for the Coral Sea exercise had not been completed. It was not clear which countries, beyond Australia and the United States, would take part with ships. Japan was said to be ready to send a ship if the event could be formally characterized as a "police exercise" and not a military exercise. The Japanese Constitution limits its military to self-defense.
The exercises are part of a program announced by President Bush and leaders of other countries at a meeting in Krakow, Poland, at the end of May known as the Proliferation Security Initiative, with 11 nations participating: the United States, Britain, Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Spain.
The Coral Sea naval exercise is to be the Initiative's first such action, and its participants set plans for it in July at a meeting in Brisbane, Australia.
Under a separate program, known as the D.P.R.K. Illicit Activities Initiative, referring to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, North Korea's official name, there has been a quiet crackdown by many nations against the North's narcotics trade, counterfeiting, money laundering and other efforts to earn hard currency.
Among the recent actions under this initiative was the seizure of a North Korean freighter by the Australian authorities in April off Brisbane on suspicion of smuggling heroin and Japanese efforts to shut down a large trading company involved in illicit trade with North Korea.
Organized crime syndicates in Japan have long been believed to be involvedin sending remittances to North Korea, money that in many cases generated at pinball casinos that are popular in Japan.
In addition, in early August, the Taiwan authorities boarded a North Korean freighter on a technical customs violation and then found and seized barrels of phosphorus pentasulfide, a lethal material that the United States later said could be used to make chemical weapons.
The Coral Sea naval exercise is to be the Proliferation Security Initiative's first such action, and its participants set plans for it only last month at a meeting in Brisbane. 
An administration official said the interdiction exercise would "piggyback" on top of another long-planned naval exercise. But a Pentagon official said that exercise would run concurrently but not as part of the interdiction exercise, which he described as in its "embryonic stages," with a scope that remains undetermined.
The Bush administration's efforts to squeeze North Korea by applying "interdiction" and "seizure" techniques were outlined in a statement by the United States and its allies at the Krakow meeting. This summer, John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control and international security, testified in Congress that the goal was to develop "new means to disrupt the proliferation trade at sea, in the air, and on land." Mr. Bolton is one of the program's champions.
A meeting has been scheduled in Paris in September, after the Coral Sea exercise, to draft criteria for future interdiction efforts.
"We're going to try to reach agreement in Paris on rules of the road," an administration official said. 
Some officials involved in the project concede that in some cases, such as the shipment of weapons that were bought or sold legally, the initiative could be hampered by international laws barring the interdiction of ships on the high seas. After authorizing the stopping of the Yemen-bound Scud missiles in December, the United States found no legal basis for blocking the shipment.
But officials familiar with the Coral Sea exercise said this problem could be circumvented in part if a new round of sanctions are imposed on North Korea, and also Iran, because of their refusal to cooperate on the nuclear issue. The sanctions might be used to justify future interdictions, the officials said.
The interdictions could also be carried out because of suspicion of a violation, they said, and then the searches could be conducted for illicit materials. An analogy, an official said, would be stopping a car for speeding when the real reason for the stop was to search for drugs.
The administration speeded up its efforts against North Korea after October, when the North admitted to a top American envoy that it had secretly embarked on a program to produce highly enriched uranium for nuclear weapons, in violation of its 1994 agreement not to pursue such arms.

GRAPHIC: Map of Australia highlighting the Coral Sea: Joint American naval exercises are set for September in the Coral Sea. (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); CURRENCIES (65%); HELICOPTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; FOREIGN AID; ARMS SALES ABROAD; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); YEMEN (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NORTH KOREA; CORAL SEA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



443 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
When Best-Laid Plans Are Bested

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. 

 BODY:
When President Bush returns to Washington from his Texas ranch at the end of the month, he will need a vacation from his vacation. True, he has spent time relaxing in the Sisyphean struggle of clearing cedar and brush from his 1,600 acres of prairie. But events of the past week, from the blackout to Arnold Schwarzenegger's entry into the California governor's recall race, ruined the most meticulous of White House plans.
 Mr. Bush loves order, but disorder was what he got. Perhaps he should have been expecting it. After all, strange things happen in August, like Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 or the coup that began against President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union in 1991. Last August, Mr. Bush fended off questions about whether he would authorize an attack on Saddam Hussein after Brent Scowcroft, the first President Bush's national security adviser, warned of the consequences. 
 Last week, Mr. Schwarzenegger was the first to put a cloud over Mr. Bush's sunny Texas holiday. More than a month ago, the White House political operation and Mr. Bush's re-election campaign organized a quick two-day trip to California from Crawford with the usual efficiency, blending prodigious fund-raising ($2 million to be raised in two speeches of 20 minutes each) with a pep talk to American troops and a scenic promotion of Mr. Bush's environmental policies in the Santa Monica Mountains.
But Mr. Schwarzenegger's announcement forced Mr. Bush into talking about the very thing he most wanted to avoid, which was Mr. Schwarzenegger. Although the president is said to favor the actor in the recall, he is loath to say so publicly for fear of being accused of manipulating the race. He is also not accustomed to taking second billing, as was evident on Wednesday, when a reporter made the mistake of referring to the California race as "the biggest political story in the country" during an otherwise sleepy mini news conference focused on the economy.
"It is the biggest political story in the country?" the president retorted, irritated. "That's interesting. That says a lot. That speaks volumes."
"You don't agree?" the reporter said.
"I don't get to decide the biggest political story," Mr. Bush said, grumpily. "You decide the biggest political story. But I find it interesting that that is the biggest political story in the country, as you just said."
Another reporter jumped in, "You don't think it should be?"
The president replied: "Oh, I think there's maybe other political stories. Isn't there, like, a presidential race coming up?"
Mr. Schwarzenegger's entry also pushed Mr. Bush into saying for the first time that he is engaged in politicking for 2004, a way-off-message admission. When asked if he was "going to do anything for Arnold," Mr. Bush replied, "I'm going to campaign for George W., as you know." Two days later, the president had zoomed back on track at a Bush-Cheney '04 lunch in Irvine, Calif., when he repeated the line from his fund-raising stump speech that "right now I'm focused on the people's business" and "the political season will come in its own time."
At that point, Mr. Bush was in any case wrestling with the blackout, which drowned out much of his California trip from the airwaves. On Thursday morning he managed a sequel to his Top Gun landing on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln with a walk through a cordon of F-18 fighter jets at the Miramar Marine Corps Air Station, all the while dressed in a photogenic olive-colored military jacket despite the sweltering sun. But by the afternoon, Mr. Bush was sequestered with aides in his suite at the San Diego Hyatt trying to sort out the power failure, then he spoke briefly to the nation that evening.
On Friday, questions about the blackout dominated an event in the Santa Monica Mountains that was meant to show Mr. Bush as concerned about America's national parks.
Of course, the California trip was hardly a failure in that the Bush campaign collected another $2 million to add to the $40 million it already has. Gerald L. Parsky, Mr. Bush's top strategist in California, enthused after the Irvine fund-raising lunch that "the trip to California was a great success" and that Mr. Bush's two-day journey was evidence of the president's deep attachment to a Democratic state that the White House insists it can win in 2004.
"It's an illustration of how much he cares about California," Mr. Parsky said.
Mr. Bush was back in Crawford on Friday in time for dinner, did not pop his head up over the weekend and has no public plans until Thursday, when he is to leave for a two-day trip to Oregon and Washington State. But five days without sight of the president after the worst blackout in the nation's history, when Democrats are blaming the administration for the failure, seems unlikely.
Mr. Bush will be under pressure to visit one of the blackout states, or at least speak up, on another fun day of his summer vacation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The news media have shown more interest in President Bush's opinions on the blackout and the California recall race than his vacation. (Photo by Rich Wilking/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); FUNDRAISING (66%); MOUNTAINS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; RECALL (ELECTIONS); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL) 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



444 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, Loss of Jobs May Erode Support 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, S.C., Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Lynn Mayson is an unemployed machine operator here. Roger Chastain is president of a textile company. While they travel in distinctively different circles, they have quite a bit in common.
 Both are Republicans. Both were part of the Solid South vote that helped George W. Bush win the White House in 2000. And, now, both say they are angry enough about job losses in the region to vote for someone else in 2004. 
 "Something's got to give," said Ms. Mayson, a mother of three, as she left a state-run jobs center the other day. "I'm not going to vote for Bush unless things change. The economy has got to get better, and it's only going to do that if someone makes something happen." 
Mr. Chastain, whose company, Mount Vernon Mills, has laid off 1,000 workers in recent years, is part of a coalition of textile executives who have formally complained to the White House about trade practices they contend are driving Americans out of jobs and manufacturers out of business, while giving huge advantages to China and other countries.
"Bush can forget about the Solid South," Mr. Chastain said. "There's no Solid South anymore."
The frustrations of Ms. Mayson and Mr. Chastain over the slow pace of economic recovery, shared by a growing number of Republicans in upstate South Carolina, have not reached such a critical mass that anyone is predicting that President Bush could lose the state next year. But the Republican wall of support here is indeed showing cracks, reflecting economic trends that Democrats say make Mr. Bush vulnerable.
 Since the president took office, more than 2.5 million jobs have been lost across the country, a downturn that administration officials contend is now turning around.
Mr. Chastain said problems had reached such a point that he would consider voting for a Democrat, perhaps Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who is a persistent critic of the North American Free Trade Agreement, known as Nafta. Ms. Mayson said she would vote for anyone with a plan to create more jobs.
Does such talk signal a new South in the making? Probably not yet. But Bush-bashing among Republicans is almost unheard of in this part of South Carolina, one of the most conservative areas in the United States. In winning the region, Mr. Bush outpolled Al Gore by a ratio of almost two to one.
The trade issue has even become a major factor in the early stages of a United States Senate campaign here, and could affect a Congressional district race. Representative Jim DeMint, a three-term Republican who angered many of his constituents by voting for fast-track procedures for trade agreements, is stepping down to run for the seat of Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a six-term Democrat, who is retiring.
Danny Varat, an adjunct professor of history at the University of South Carolina in Spartanburg, said that if the economy was ailing a year from now and trade policies had not changed enough to help manufacturing in the state, Republicans could have a hard time winning both the Senate race and the Fourth Congressional District seat that Mr. DeMint is vacating.
As for the president, "If there's a faltering economy, he bears the responsibility, and that has political consequences," Mr. Varat said. "To the degree he could lose the state? It's too early to assess that right now." 
Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush re-election campaign, dismissed the idea of any problems for Mr. Bush in South Carolina by defending him against critics of his economic stewardship. Mr. Stanzel said the recent tax cuts that Mr. Bush aggressively sought demonstrated his abiding concern for the economy and the nation's jobless. 
"The president will not be satisfied until every American looking for work can find it," Mr. Stanzel said, adding that the tax cuts were "a victory for American workers, their families and America's small businesses." 
Still, many industries here and elsewhere are reeling, perhaps none more so than textiles and apparel manufacturing, which today employ only about half the 1.5 million workers who had jobs in 1994, when Nafta went into effect. Industry officials say that about half of those losses have come since Mr. Bush was inaugurated, and in upstate South Carolina, once the vital core of America's textile industry, many major companies have cut back their work forces or closed. This month, South Carolina's unemployment rate reached 7 percent, the highest level in more than nine years, compared with a national rate of 6.2 percent. 
Like his two-term predecessor, Bill Clinton, who twice failed to carry South Carolina, Mr. Bush has argued that free trade has been good for the country. Over all, the region has attracted companies from nearly 20 other countries in recent years.
But economic experts in the state, like R. Carter Smith, chief executive of the Spartanburg County Economic Development Corporation, say the number of new jobs has not matched those lost, keeping South Carolina among the highest-ranked states in percentage of jobs lost during the Bush years, at No. 3 behind Massachusetts and Ohio.
Textile industry leaders blame the administration for not demanding that China alter trade practices that enable Chinese companies to sell goods cheaper in the United States than American businesses do, making it harder to compete. J. Richard Dillard, a spokesman for Milliken & Company, a major manufacturer in the Carolinas, said Mr. Bush promised such protections, called "safeguards," before and after he was elected but had not followed through.
"We've heard a lot from elected officials that free trade creates jobs," Mr. Dillard said. "That's absolutely true. It has created jobs in Mexico, China, Indonesia and everyplace else in the world, but not here. We're tired of it."
They are so tired of it, he said, that for the first time industry leaders are drawing a line in the cloth, insisting that if the Bush administration does not narrow the trade gap with China by the fall, company executives will withhold support for Mr. Bush or even campaign for another candidate. That was the principal message of two news conferences the officials held in Greensboro, N.C., and Spartanburg, although only Mr. Gephardt emerged as a possibility. 
Among other major Democratic contenders, Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Bob Graham of Florida are strong supporters of free trade. Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina favor balanced approaches with stronger protections for American workers. 
Asked for a show of hands in Spartanburg to indicate how many of the executives voted for Mr. Bush in 2000, all indicated they had. Asked for a show of hands of how many would be willing to abandon him in 2004, all indicated they would. 
"This is an excellent opportunity for any elected official to base their campaign on jobs," said Roy Baxley, chairman of the South Carolina Cotton Board. "This is the time to step up to the plate."
Ms. Mayson said jobless people in the area could not agree more. "I know he's trying," she said of Mr. Bush. "But too many jobs are going overseas. What about the people here?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: People looking for jobs at the Employment Security Commission in Greenville, S.C. Job losses have closed a number of companies in South Carolina. The Spartan textile mill, near Spartanburg, is being demolished. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Out of Work"Monthly unemployment rates for South Carolina and the United States, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks the monthly unemployment rates for South Carolina and the United States since 1999. (Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics; South Carolina Employment Security Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TEXTILES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON MILLS INC (56%); MOUNT VERNON MILLS SALES CORP (56%); MOUNT VERNON MILLS SMITH & WATERS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (56%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (58%); JIM DEMINT (57%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (86%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (86%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA; SOUTHERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003 



445 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Machines Explore Odd Behaviors of Ubiquitous Plasmas 

BYLINE:  By MARGARET WERTHEIM

 BODY:
Ninety-nine percent of the visible stuff in our universe is in the form of plasma, ionized gas that is also known as the fourth state of matter.
 Flames are plasmas. Lightning is a plasma. Auroras are caused by plasmas, and every fluorescent tube is filled with the stuff. Earth is cocooned in a halo of plasma, called the ionosphere. Stars are balls of super-hot plasma and nebulae are clouds of it. 
 Since William Crookes first identified plasma in 1879, the phenomenon has captured physicists' imaginations, yet until recently little was known about plasmas. Now, with a new generation of gargantuan machines, physicists are beginning to explore the bizarre behaviors inherent to this state. 
In the communications era, understanding plasmas is becoming increasingly important, said Christopher Watts, a physicist at New Mexico Tech. When solar flares erupt, massive ejections of plasma known as the solar wind can wipe out satellite systems and bring down power grids. In 1989 a huge solar flare left six million people in Quebec without power; in 1998 a flare was blamed for a daylong disturbance to millions of cellphone customers. Just this past Sunday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Space Environment Center in Boulder, Colo., reported that a huge gust of solar wind had struck the earth's atmosphere causing a geomagnetic storm rated at G4, the second highest rating on the agency's space weather scales. G4 storms are powerful enough to cause damage to both power lines and satellites.
"We can't do anything to stop these events," Mr. Watts said, "but if we could predict them, we could act to protect satellites and grids."
Plasmas may also play a central role in meeting future energy needs. When fossil fuels run out, one of the few alternatives for large scale power production is nuclear fusion.
"If we are ever going to have viable fusion power plants we have to understand how plasmas behave and how to control them," said Walter Gekelman, a physicist at the University of California at Los Angeles. 
At New Mexico Tech, Mr. Watts has been building a machine that he hopes will help to illuminate the mechanisms underlying solar flares. The cylindrical construction, more than 18 feet long, is surrounded by electromagnetic coils a meter in diameter. Bolted and welded and bristling with tubes, it looks like a contraption from a Jules Verne novel. The coils encircle a bundle of seven large glass tubes filled with argon. Each has been nicknamed after a famous physicist -- Albert Einstein, Marie Curie and Michael Faraday among them.
Mr. Watts flicks a switch and a column of blue light charges through the Einstein tube. Another flick and Marie Curie flares on, followed by Faraday, then Paul Dirac. The light is caused by glowingplasma produced by the ionization of the argon atoms. The plasma itself is held in place by a magnetic field generated by the coils. At 2 kilogauss it is 20 times stronger than the sun's surface magnetic field, and 4,000 times more powerful than the earth's. Without this field, Mr. Watts explained, "the plasma would rapidly leak out." Simply containing the material is one of the biggest headaches plasma researchers confront.
The relationship between plasmas and magnetic fields is crucial to understanding solar flares, said Robert Lin, a professor of physics at the University of California at Berkeley and the principal investigator for the Rhessi satellite, which has been observing the sun for the past year. Plasmas are a mixture of charged particles (electrons and ions), Mr. Lin explained, and hence motions within a plasma can generate circulating streams of electrical current. 
In the plasma surrounding the sun -- its corona -- enormous streams of current give rise to vast magnetic fields that distort and stretch the sun's regular field. Physicists theorize that when the field lines become too distorted, they tear, snapping back to reconnect in a more relaxed state. "This process of magnetic tearing and reconnection is what we think produces solar flares," Mr. Lin said. It's also what they think may be responsible for heating the corona, which, mysteriously, is millions of degrees hotter than the surface of the sun. In his machine, Mr. Watts hopes to eventually model the process of magnetic reconnection.
When solar flares erupt, charged particles are also flung out into space where they form the solar wind. Rushing past Earth at close to a million miles an hour the solar wind distorts the magnetic field surrounding our planet, stretching the field lines hundreds of thousands of miles. Again, Mr. Watts said, when the field lines become too distorted physicists believe that "they snap back like rubber bands" and reconnect closer in.
In the process, particles are flung back toward the Earth, where they are channeled into the poles by the natural concentration of field lines. Here they interact with the plasma of the ionosphere causing the spectacular displays of light known as auroras. Mr. Watts's machine may also be understood as an aurora in a bottle. "The process behind solar flares and auroras are very similar," he said. "But in the ionosphere the plasma is much less dense."
Yet even very dilute plasmas can be extraordinarily complicated. Throughout the ionosphere physicists have discovered long tubular holes called "density striations." These holes vary from 10 meters, or about 33 feet, in diameter to several hundred meters across, Mr. Gekelman said. Nobody knows how long they are, but physicists guess anywhere from 6 to 60 miles. Like vast serpents snaking through the sky they follow the magnetic field lines. "They're very strange," he said. "No one is sure how they form and auroras are full of them." 
"In many ways," Mr. Gekelman said, "a plasma acts as if it is alive. They are constantly restructuring their environment." In his facility at U.C.L.A., Mr. Gekelman and his colleagues have become experts at generating striations and other, even more exotic plasma structures. 
At 22 meters in length, Mr. Gekelman's machine is even larger than Mr. Watts's. It occupies a football-field sized laboratory in the basement of U.C.L.A.'s Science and Technology Building. With 90 magnetic coils, shaped like a giant caterpillar, it can produce a continuous volume of plasma about 56 feet long. The plasma is generated by a million-watt electron beam and reaches temperatures of up to 250,000 degrees. Sixty tons of copper were used to make the coils, which are fed by 4.5 megawatts of power and up to 10,000 amps of current. When it's running, cooled water is continuously pumped through the coils to prevent meltdown from overheating.
The U.C.L.A. plasma is free of background noise. "In the early days of plasma physics, the plasma was like boiling water," Mr. Gekelman said. "It was like trying to hear a conversation in a tornado."
With a super-quiet plasma he is able to study the exotic kinds of waves which occur in this medium, some of which don't occur anywhere else in nature. Mr. Gekelman is particularly interested in a type known as Alven waves, named for the Swedish physicist and Nobel laureate Hannes Alven, who discovered them.
Just as magnetic field lines can stretch and distort, so they can carry waves "like the strings of a guitar," Mr. Watts explained. Alven waves in particular are thought to contribute to the heating of the Sun's corona and they may also play a role in forming density striations in the ionosphere. 
Inside his machine, Mr. Gekelman can produce these waves and then measure the three-dimensional movement of the magnetic field at 30,000 points throughout the chamber. From this data, he produces detailed images and animations of the cigar-shaped Alven waves as they move along the length of the plasma column.
Plasmas also offer clues to the workings of stars. And scientists who dream of clean and endless fusion power are slowly learning how to harness and control extremely hot plasmas. If such efforts bear practical fruit the effect on the world's energy economy would be profound.
"Plasma physics is cutting-edge basic research," said George Tyson, a professor of physics at University of California at San Diego, "yet it can really impact on people's lives."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Watts's machine at New Mexico Tech generates a magnetic field much stronger than the sun's and produces plasma from ionization of argon atoms. (Photographs by Cameron Allan) Chart/Diagram: "Plasma on a Giant Scale"Solar eruptions can send waves of high-energy particles, radiation and a solar magnetic field, known as solar wind, toward Earth. 1 -- The Sun emits a solar wind of charged particles that blow steadily. 2 -- Occasionally, an eruption on the Sun creates a huge gust of solar wind that can travel through space at supersonic speeds, sending turbulence and creating shock waves . . . 3 -- . . . inside Earths magnetic cocoon, distorting the magnetic field. EARTHS MAGNETOSPHERE reaches about 30,000 miles from Earth on the Sun side . . . . . . and can extend almost 200,000 miles on the other side. (Source by Dr. Christopher Watts, New Mexico Tech)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); PHYSICS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); WEATHER (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); WIND ENERGY (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) Space; Physics; Plasma (Ionized Gas); Sun; Earth; Electric Light and Power; Research; Tests and Testing; Space; Magnetism and Magnets; Aurora Borealis; Stars and Galaxies; Argon

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%) New Mexico Tech

PERSON: Margaret Wertheim; Christopher Watts

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); EARTH (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



446 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
A Chance For Opera, The City and City Opera

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
The redevelopers of ground zero have a historic opportunity to enhance the cultural life of New York City by ensuring the arts a lasting presence at the site. But the agency planning the rebuilding effort, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, could easily make a mistake if it erects a proposed multiuse performing arts center in the hope that a diverse range of organizations will then fill it.
 The developers would be wise to court a major institution with a strong identity, one that would bring credibility and potentially a devoted audience base to the new complex. That institution is the New York City Opera, dubbed the "people's opera" by Fiorello La Guardia, one of its founders. 
 As a company with a $35 million annual operating budget, City Opera says it can satisfy the agency's crucial stipulation, that only performing arts institutions that can build and maintain a theater on its own will be considered for the site. Paul Kellogg, the company's general and artistic director, says he has reams of figures to back him up. 
Call him naive, but when Mr. Kellogg announced his desire to move the company to the site after 9/11, he thought he might be congratulated for his artistic vision and administrative daring.
"After 9/11, when there was so much devastation and death, I felt that bringing the performing arts to that place seemed so appropriate," Mr. Kellogg said in an interview at the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., where he is the artistic director. The arts, he added, "represent life, the imagination at work, solace, entertainment, beauty." 
It seemed particularly fitting to him, he said, that New York would respond to this attack by erecting an opera house, the epitome of the high Western culture the terrorists despise. He estimates his theater would add some 800 jobs to the area.
Of course in some ways the move could benefit City Opera, which has long been exasperated with the New York State Theater, its Lincoln Center home. The theater was built for ballet; as an opera house it's acoustically inadequate. And operating in the shadow of the Metropolitan Opera has not been easy. People are too quick to think of City Opera as second-tier rather than as something different.
Still, relocating to an area of the city that has historically been a center of daytime finance, not nighttime culture, is a considerable financial risk for the company. City Opera audiences have grown used to Lincoln Center, with its easy access to subways and ample underground parking. Would the company's dependable patrons, especially those from Manhattan's Upper West and East Sides, follow it all the way downtown?
Mr. Kellogg is prepared to persuade City Opera regulars that the move is viable and potentially exciting. And he says he has a vision for what the company could become. The plan calls for City Opera to build a relatively intimate 2,200-seat theater that would also be available to other institutions when the opera wasn't using it. Mr. Kellogg said he has been talking with the Y.M.H.A., which wants the theater for its lecture series; with Arts International, a New York-based organization for global exchange, which is interested in presenting an annual festival of world culture; and with the TriBeCa Film Festival, which would take up residence in May when the opera season ends.
To make the plan particularly attractive to the development corporation, he proposes additional matinee opera performances for the convenience of daytime visitors to the site and an extensive summer season devoted to productions of America musicals, from Sousa to Sondheim.
What he was not prepared for, Mr. Kellogg said, was defending City Opera against the perception that it was too specialized -- too elitist an institution -- to anchor a performing arts complex at the World Trade Center site. But that is the attitude he has encountered among some government officials, development corporation board members and community activists, who prefer a multiheaded performing arts organization that would appeal to the widest range of citizens.
Challenging that perception of elitism has been a mission of Mr. Kellogg's administration. "This history has been a huge inspiration to me," Mr. Kellogg said, adding, "The City Opera has always been financially accessible." Last season, he said, 11 percent of its audience was made up of students with discount tickets, a huge percentage for a performing arts institution.
The company has further tried to break down the perception of opera as something only for insiders by offering diverse repertory, including 20th-century and American works, and mounting adventurous productions with casts of younger singers who tend to look like the characters they portray.
So Mr. Kellogg was discouraged by the results of a survey by Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan. The questionnaire asked a sampling of residents to choose among a list of options for the development complex. They included new schools, a community center with day care and a center for the elderly, improved transportation, more stores and other retail businesses, and a performing arts center that would offer many events. Also on the list was a theater for New York City Opera, the only major arts institution to propose moving to the site. That option came in dead last.
Before dismissing the idea, the developers might consider the troubles Lincoln Center had when it opened in the mid-1960's. The Vivian Beaumont Theater was built as a repertory company with a sizable backstage specifically for storing the sets of what was assumed would be a roster of rotating productions. The problem was that there was no repertory theater company to move into it. One critic at the time likened it to erecting the Great Pyramid and then advertising for a dynasty of pharaohs to go inside.
After several years of indecisive and conventional leadership by others at the Beaumont, Joseph Papp was persuaded to take charge in 1973. He arrived amid great promise and big plans. Four years later he bowed out, embittered by the indifferent, even hostile reactions of the staid Vivian Beaumont audiences to his daring, multiracial and risky productions. Only after leaving the center and focusing his vision on the Public Theater complex on Lafayette Street in the East Village did his company finally take off artistically, galvanizing new audiences and bringing economic rejuvenation to a neglected neighborhood.
One lingering question about the City Opera plan concerns the size of the house the company wants to build. Is there room at the site? Mr. Kellogg has said that his opera house would need about 60,000 square feet. "It's hard to design a lobby, auditorium and backstage area much smaller than that," he said. The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, despite its public statements to the contrary, has emphasized that no definite space allotments have been determined.
Still, the corporation has suggested two alternative sites for Mr. Kellogg to consider, one in Battery Park City. Might they be acceptable?
Mr. Kellogg said that for City Opera to make this move viable, accessibility to public transportation and visibility to tourists (who could number 10 million a year) are essential. "What they are talking about for the downtowntransportation hub is pretty ingenious," he said. "Sites that are not right at the corner of Greenwich and Fulton Streets, where the hub will be, but are about a couple of hundred feet away, have been suggested. They might work. We are looking at them carefully."
But he added, "It would be hard for a company like ours to be out of sight, away from the central flow of pedestrian traffic. It could be the difference between thriving and struggling."
Demographic surveys commissioned by City Opera indicate that after the novelty of the first season, which could sell out, the company can expect attendance to decline 16 percent, assuming that some veteran operagoers from uptown Manhattan and the Long Island suburbs would be unwilling to go to Lower Manhattan.
On the other hand, people living in Manhattan and in large swaths of Brooklyn and New Jersey would have easy access to the site. With this potential new audience, as well as tourists and hoped-for young people who might be excited by the new venture, Mr. Kellogg says he can make up that gap.
Yet he would be betting his company on a leap of faith and a courageous vision. Maybe there are legitimate reasons that City Opera would not be the best institution to anchor this new arts complex. But let the deciding reason not be that a major opera company with a proven history and a populist bent would be too esoteric an institution for this important role.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Kellogg wants to move City Opera to its own home at the World Trade Center site. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); OPERA (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); RELOCATIONS (77%); FESTIVALS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TERRORISM (66%) OPERA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA 

PERSON: TOMMASINI, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



447 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Hostesses in Shorts? This Is No Ordinary Flight

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

 BODY:
It doesn't take long for passengers boarding the new Hooters Air planes in Newark, Baltimore or Atlanta for flights to Myrtle Beach, S.C., to realize that this will be no ordinary flight.
 The airline's logo, an owl with orange goggle-eyes that is being shot into the sky, is an early tipoff. But the clincher is the effusive greeting they get in the cabin from a pair of buxom Hooters Girls, as they are called, in tank tops and orange short-shorts. 
 For men heading to one of Myrtle Beach's 123 golf courses, with perhaps a stop at the Myrtle Beach Convention Center or one of the area's big manufacturers like the AVX Corporation or International Paper, being fussed over by two scantily clad females on loan from the Hooters restaurant chain can be a diversion from the usual problems of flying. And if conversations with Hooters passengers last week were any guide, their wives or girlfriends might just take the whole thing in stride. 
"My wife booked it," said a grinning Mike Goodwin, 54, a manager for Mason Goodyear, a tire-and-automotive center in Myrtle Beach, who was about to board a flight to Baltimore. "I'm a white-knuckle flier, and she thought that this would keep me distracted."
Not a bad idea, chimed in Virginia Stout, a fellow passenger on her way to visit grandchildren in Maryland. "My husband hates to fly, and this wouldn't hurt him a bit."
The Hooters Air concept might be politically incorrect, but the Myrtle Beach town fathers are delighted that somebody is ferrying in all those tourists and business travelers. That somebody is Robert H. Brooks, owner of the nationwide Hooters chain that specializes in chicken wings; he lives in nearby Loris, S.C. Myrtle Beach sought his help in replacing airline service that disappeared in the economic downturn after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
Myrtle Beach Jet Express went bankrupt and two other carriers pulled out, hurting the golf tourism business that helps underpin the area's economy. "The loss of direct flights meant we needed a home-grown alternative," said Stephen Greene, a spokesman for the Myrtle Beach Chamber of Commerce. "We lost between 400 and 500 seats after Sept. 11, and we are trying to rebuild that loss."
Last year, more than a million golfers showed up to play at Myrtle Beach courses like the Dunes Golf and Beach Club, the former senior P.G.A. tour course; the Tournament Players Club; and the Pine Lakes Country Club -- sometimes slipping away from meetings at the 10,000-seat convention center downtown. They helped fill Myrtle Beach's 500 hotels, including the 400-room Radisson adjacent to the convention center.
In trying to make Myrtle Beach more accessible, Mr. Brooks also saw an opportunity to capitalize on his product brand by tying it tightly to the airline. He modified the 20-year-old chain's owl logo, and allowed Hooters waitresses, who wear the form-fitting tops with the restaurant's slogan, "Delightfully tacky, yet unrefined," to sign up for flights as long as they rotate back to the restaurants. (He toned down the language in the airline's motto, making it "Easy to buy, fun to fly.")
On board, the hostesses -- they work separately from the flight attendants -- mingle with passengers, sell Hooters T-shirts and conduct a trivia contest with questions like what is Maryland's official sport (jousting) and how many wing sauces does Hooters offer (six). Prizes include Hooters pins and $5 gift cards for Hooters restaurants -- there are four in Myrtle Beach alone.
"You're taking care of people and at the same time they are having a good time," said a Hooters hostess, Angela Wathen, 21, as she worked her way down the aisle with Lindsay Travis, 22, on a recent flight from Baltimore to Myrtle Beach, chatting with passengers about their business trips or vacations.
It isn't just men who are taken in by their chatter. As the women reached the back rows, 5-year-old Alexis Amoroso burst out, "I love you, Lindsay," and proclaimed that she wanted to be a "Hooters Girl when I grow up." The reason, she explained, was that she was wearing the same white Skechers sneakers as Ms. Travis.
Alexis's mother, Valerie, a 26-year-old Myrtle Beach convenience-store manager who was returning home from a vacation in Ocean City, Md., offered more practical reasons for flying Hooters Air: the price ($99 each way) and the fact that food is served and the service is nonstop. "Before we had to wait about two and a half hours in Atlanta for a connecting flight," she said, "and that's hard when you are traveling with kids."
What about the outfits? "It doesn't bother me," Mrs. Amoroso said. "I work by the beach."
But on another flight, Lucille Carter, a mother of four who lives in Perry Hall, Md., admitted to being offended. Her grown son, who lives in Brooklyn, scolded her for taking an "airline where they dress like they do," she said, adding that she was "shocked to see that the girls look like teenagers."
"The pants are too short and too tight and the bust line is too low," she said. "What's the purpose? It's just to draw in men." Yet there she was, on the Myrtle Beach-to-Baltimore flight. She said the direct service and low price had won her business -- at least once.
The Hooters restaurant chain, which was founded in Florida in the 1980's, has long been a target of feminists for its openly sexist marketing. Six years ago, it agreed to pay $3.75 million to settle a lawsuit filed by men who were denied jobs.
This is not its first venture outside of the restaurant business; in 1994, it took over sponsorship of the minor league National Golf Association Jordan Tour, now the National Golf Association Hooters Tour.
Hooters Air hopes that its client mix -- two recent flights were nearly evenly divided between men and women with a sprinkling of families in the 112 seats -- will eventually turn its currently modest passenger loads into a sold-out success. In a bid for the last-minute-getaway market, it charges the same price for same-day or advance purchases. The airline, which has contracted with Delta Air Lines to handle ticketing, operates its three white-and-orange Boeing 737's with an owl on each tail between Myrtle Beach and Newark, Baltimore and Atlanta five days a week.
"We're not trying to compete with the biggest airlines," said Mark Peterson, the Hooters Air president, "But there is a niche out there."
The two Hooters hostesses don't serve the food -- usually a chicken sandwich or a tray of fresh vegetables -- even though they are waitresses. That chore is handled by three flight attendants, who have Federal Aviation Administration training and are attired in short but relatively conservative navy blue skirts trimmed with two orange strips; they also wear white blouses and orange scarves. There are no male flight attendants.
As for the Hooters hostesses, "They're not here for safety," said a flight attendant, Carol McRee, 37. "They're here for hospitality."
And the hostesses like the change of pace. At Hooters restaurants, they make $2.13 an hour plus tips. Aboard, they earn $13.50 an hour but no tips. That's "a lot easier than seven hours on your feet," Ms. Wathen said.
And men are apparently on their best behavior when flying. Unlike in restaurants, she said, "You don't get harassed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers on a Hooters Air flight. "We're not trying to compete with the biggest airlines," said Mark Peterson, president of the airline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); GOLF (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CHILDREN (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); AIR SERVICE (64%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); TERRORISM (61%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: HOOTERS OF AMERICA INC (74%); AVX CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOTERS AIR 

TICKER: AVX (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (74%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3678 ELECTRONIC CONNECTORS (70%); SIC3676 ELECTRONIC RESISTORS (70%); SIC3675 ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (70%)

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; BROOKS, ROBERT H 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (99%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



448 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 600 words

PERSON: Wilfred Bernard Richland 

HEADLINE: W. Bernard Richland, 94, Dies; Counsel in Fiscal Crisis 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
W. Bernard Richland, who as corporation counsel of the City of New York was the city's chief lawyer during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and was a principal framer of its periodic charter updates, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 94.
 Mr. Richland's service as a legal expert in the public domain dated to the days of Judge Samuel Seabury, whose investigations into public corruption brought down Mayor Jimmy Walker. Most recently, he served as a special master in the litigation involving Vietnam War veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange. 
 As corporation counsel from 1975 to 1977, he headed the city's Law Department when New York faced bankruptcy. Like other branches of its government, he wrote to the City Council in 1976, his office was "decimated" and "on the brink of disaster." Under his guidance, the office nevertheless won an enduring victory for the city's threatened architectural landmarks. When the city decided to join the campaign to save Grand Central Terminal, it was up to him and his associates to fight the matter in the courts.
At issue was a developer's plan to build a 53-story office tower atop Grand Central, a plan that the city argued would spoil that structure forever. The case was argued by one of Mr. Richland's associates, Nina Gershon, now a federal judge in Brooklyn, in the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, which also upheld the city's landmark-preservation law. The decision was affirmed by the New York Court of Appeals and by the United States Supreme Court.
Wilfred Bernard Richland was born in Liverpool, England, a son of Julius Richland, a tailor, seaman and adventurer. He came to New York at the age of 16, in 1925, and got a job as an office boy for Mr. Seabury.
There, he advanced to clerk and eventually law associate. By studying on his own and taking classes at New York University, Judge Seabury's alma mater, from 1932 to 1936, he gained admission in 1937 to the bars of New York, the United States Supreme Court and lower federal courts.
Mr. Richland stayed with Judge Seabury's investigation of the city's affairs until 1943, when he became an assistant corporation counsel for the city. He was chief of the opinions and legislation division until 1958.
He then practiced law with private firms for 15 years, but served on Gov. W. Averell Harriman's State Commission on Home Rule in 1958 and as special counsel to Mayor Robert F. Wagner's Study of Housing and Urban Renewal in 1960. From 1960 to 1964, he also sat on the Commission on Home Rule of the State Office for Local Government.
He became general counsel to the State Charter Revision Commission of 1973 to 1975 and then was named corporation counsel by Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
Mr. Richland served on the Mayor's Commission on the Judiciary in the mid-1970's, and as a commissioner on the City Charter Revision panels of the late 1980's. 
He was an adjunct professor of local government law at N.Y.U. from 1978 to 1989, and from 1988 to 1996 was special master for appeals for the federal Agent Orange Administration, in United States District Court in Brooklyn.
He wrote a book, "You Can Beat City Hall" (1980), and contributed to magazines, newspapers and law journals. He was a past member of the editorial board of The New York Law Journal.
Mr. Richland was married in 1933 to Pauline Diamond, who died in 1993. He is survived by two daughters, Robin Silverton of Park Slope, Brooklyn, and Lisa Richland of Shelter Island, N.Y.; a sister, Gladys Sarony-Frye; his companion, Barbara Carroll Weiler; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Bernard Richland in 1989. (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); APPEALS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); LITIGATION (73%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); VETERANS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

RICHLAND, W BERNARD; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (76%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



449 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar surged against the euro on speculation that economic growth in the United States would outpace Europe's. In New York, the euro settled at $1.1153, down from $1.1256 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since March 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TRENDS (85%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



450 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Strong Consumer Spending Continues to Bolster Shares

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks gained yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to its highest close in 14 months, as strong earnings from Lowe's and an upbeat forecast from Wal-Mart encouraged investors.
 "The surprise we see is that the consumer continues to be fairly strong," said James Gribbell, who manages $1.5 billion at David L. Babson & Company in Cambridge, Mass. 
 The Dow rallied 90.76 points, or nearly 1 percent, to close at 9,412.45, the highest since June 20, 2002. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 9.07 points, or 0.9 percent, to 999.74. The Nasdaq composite index rose 37.48 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,739.49. 
Computer-related and industrial shares posted the biggest gains as benchmark indexes extended last week's rallies, when the Dow and S.& P. 500 posted their biggest weekly advances in two months.
Two stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.15 billion shares changed hands, down 19 percent from the daily average for the last three months. Big Board trading Friday, when power had not been restored fully from North America's worst power blackout, totaled about 631 million shares, the slowest of the year.
Many investors who missed work on Friday because of the blackout also may have been heartened by a report on industrial production released that day by the Federal Reserve. Output rose in July by the most in six months, paced by gains in cars, computers and electronics along with a jump in demand at utilities, the report showed.
"The U.S. economy is improving" and "profit for some companies is growing," said Marco Blasi, who helps manage the equivalent of $10.8 billion in international stocks at HSBC Holdings P.L.C. "The worst is over."
The S.& P. 500 has surged 25 percent from its 2003 low set on March 11.
Industry and government reports today on consumer confidence and housing may also provide evidence of a pickup in growth.
Advanced Micro Devices led a rally in semiconductor stocks after an article in Barron's said the company would benefit from its new line of chips, which have a greater capacity than existing processors. Shares of Advanced Micro Devices rose $1.11, or 14 percent, to $8.91.
Lowe's added $3.06, to $51.96, after reporting that its second-quarter profit jumped 28 percent. Home Depot, the company's larger rival, reports earnings before the market opens today. Its shares rose 36 cents, to $33.90.
Toys "R" Us rose 83 cents, to $12.71, after saying that its second-quarter loss narrowed to $11 million, or 5 cents a share, from a loss of $17 million, or 8 cents, in the period a year earlier.
Wal-Mart rose 82 cents, to $58.92. Strong demand for back-to-school supplies and clothing may help August sales increase more than its forecast for a gain of as much as 5 percent, the company said.
FirstEnergy slid $2.86, to $27.75. The head of an industry group said he was "fairly certain" last week's power failure began south of Cleveland. That is where FirstEnergy said three high-voltage lines and a power plant failed hours before the blackout. The company was downgraded to neutral from buy by Merrill Lynch.
Power-related companies that may win new business because of the blackout rose for a second day. General Electric, the biggest maker of turbines for power plants, rose $1.02, to $29.80. Caterpillar climbed $2.08, to $73.04, and Honeywell International gained 97 cents, to $29.33. The companies make diesel-powered generators used by companies for backup power.
Treasury bond prices rose. The benchmark 10-year note gained 17/32, to 98 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.47 percent from 4.53 percent on Friday. The 30-year bond rose 25/32, to 100 14/32. Its yield dropped to 5.35 percent from 5.40 percent.

Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.761	99.477	High Rate	0.945	1.035	Investment Rate	0.964	1.057	Low Rate	0.92%	1.00%	Median Rate	0.94%	1.02%	Total applied for	$36,774,884	$35,387,715	Accepted	$21,475,942	$21,721,380	Noncompetitive	$1,389,452	$916,325	

Both issues are dated Aug. 21. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 20, and the six-month bills on Feb. 19, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: DAVID L BABSON & CO INC (72%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (52%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (65%); HSB (PAR) (65%); HBC (NYSE) (65%); 0005 (HKSE) (65%); AMD (NYSE) (52%); AMD (FRA) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



451 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: A New Place to Sleep (Standing Up) 

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Eviction is any New York tenant's worst nightmare.
 But imagine having to begin searching for a new home with stalls and feeding troughs instead of bedrooms and a kitchen. Such was the challenge for 15 of the city's carriage drivers, who bypassed the rental market and bought a property on West 52nd Street yesterday for $4 million that they plan to convert into stables. 
 The carriage drivers were pushed to take action after some 60 horses faced removal from two of the five stables used by the city's approximately 150 carriage horses. One privately owned stable was sold and the other, which is owned by the city, is for sale. 
The changes threatened the drivers' livelihoods, to say nothing of their numbers around Central Park, and raising the money to find alternate housing proved daunting. In order to buy the 30,000-square-foot property at 612-618 West 52nd Street, which faces DeWitt Clinton Park, the drivers formed Park View Realty, a limited liability corporation.
"Some of the guys put up their homes," said Ed Callaghan, 39, a carriage driver who is among the company's 15 shareholders, adding that he makes about $50,000 a year. "Our carriages are on the line. We had to put up our medallions. Everything. No one in the industry could afford to go and buy this on their own."
The drivers culled their savings, asked relatives for loans and secured a $3.34 million loan from Business Loan Express in Manhattan. 
Converting the property into a stable will cost the drivers $250,000 to $300,000 more, a process that is expected to be completed by October or November, said Conor McHugh, a driver and the company's chief executive.
The city lent the drivers a hand by providing them, through the Industrial Development Agency, a package of tax and real estate incentives worth about $722,000 to help with the renovation, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation.
As part of the package, Park View Realty will not pay sales tax on materials and construction costs normally incurred in renovations, Ms. Patterson said.
"It means keeping jobs in the city," Ms. Patterson said. "It's also part of the fabric of New York City, the carriage horses in Central Park."
The new property, formerly a corrugated-box warehouse, is large enough to house about 70 horses, though the shareholders are waiting to see how many drivers will stable horses there before deciding how many stalls to build. Park View Realty will charge $1,000 per horse per month, slightly higher than the $800 and $900 rents charged by the two soon-to-be vacated stables. 
"Most of the drivers are going there," Martin Dennely, 38, said on a recent hot weekday as he gingerly hosed off Keno, a horse who is stabled elsewhere on West 52nd Street now. 
The push to find a new stable began three years ago, when drivers and owners of some 28 horses learned that the owner of a stable at West 52nd Street and Joe DiMaggio Highway had gone bankrupt and that the stable would be sold in foreclosure.
A year later, a group of drivers at another stable, on West 45th Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, which is owned by the city, were told that the property would be sold. The city is talking with a film production company about selling that stable, Ms. Patterson said.
"It's hard to put time frames on things like that because it's a complicated deal," Ms. Patterson said. "It is moving forward, however."
The stable at West 52nd Street was sold earlier this year, but the drivers who rented stable space there were granted an extension to stay until the fall after the new owners learned that some of the tenants were about to buy the former warehouse down the block. 
"We saw the writing on the wall; if we didn't grab something soon, then there was going to be no place for us," Mr. McHugh said. "If we didn't raise the money, the bank wasn't going to get a loan and there was going to be no horse-drawn carriages in Central Park. It was either do something or do nothing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Callaghan, a carriage driver, at the West 52nd Street warehouse that is to be made into a stable. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HORSES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%); SALES TAX (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Horses; Carriages

ORGANIZATION: Park View Reality; Industrial Development Agency

PERSON: Andrea Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



452 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND/In Hartford; 
A City Seeks to Recapture Its Commercial Allure

BYLINE:  By AMY ZIPKIN 

 BODY:
Hartford, long eclipsed as a business destination by Boston and New York, recently proclaimed itself New England's rising star. The city, known as the insurance capital of America, the birthplace of the Colt revolver and the hometown of Katharine Hepburn, is intent on recapturing its commercial allure.
 A $190 million Convention Center, the centerpiece of a $750 million state-financed revitalization, is rising at Adriaen's Landing, a 30-acre complex of apartments and commercial establishments, among them a planned $75 million Marriott hotel. Across the Connecticut River in East Hartford, a 40,000-square-foot stadium for the University of Connecticut opened in July. 
 In the northern suburb of Bloomfield, Pepperidge Farm plans to open a 265,000-square-foot bakery and distribution center next month. Twenty miles southwest in Bristol, ESPN is building a 120,000-square-foot digital production center.
The urban renewal effort has not been without its critics. In May, Edna N. Negron, director of the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration office in Hartford, said the plans slighted the city's rebounding Hispanic commercial district four blocks away, though she now says the city is acting to address her concerns. But in general, with apartment buildings sprouting downtown and cultural life thriving, business and civic leaders are optimistic.
"The former mayor used to bemoan the lack of cranes in Hartford," said Donald Gershman, executive vice president of Konover Investments, a real estate development company. "Now you see cranes."

AIRPORT
BRADLEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 12 miles from downtown, completed a $250 million renovation in April that includes a new terminal, garage, international arrivals building and maintenance center. The improvements have cut the waits to clear security and pick up baggage by half, according to Peter N. Stevens, managing principal at the Jeter, Cook & Jepson architectural firm.
Even so, said Fred Carstensen, the director of the Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut, "the airport is relatively underdeveloped compared to where it should be." No airline offers scheduled overseas flights or nonstop flights to the West Coast, and the airport does not have public transportation to downtown. Taxis charge a flat $28 fee, and hotel shuttle buses $15 to $20.

HOTELS
The GOODWIN (860-246-7500, $199 to $269) is "tough to get in," Mr. Stevens said, so he advises reserving a room at least two weeks in advance. Guests like the boutique atmosphere and location in the central business district. The rooms have sleigh beds, marble baths, Internet links and voice mail.
The HILTON (860-728-5151, $119 to $199) is also downtown and has a skywalk to the Civic Center. All rooms have high-speed Internet access and two dual-line phones with private voice mail. There is a small indoor pool, spa and whirlpool.
One exit from downtown off Interstate 84, the HASTINGS HOTEL AND CONFERENCE CENTER (860-727-4200, $139 to $169) attracts guests who want to be within walking distance of Aetna, ING and Hartford Financial Services. Originally an Aetna training center, the building has been renovated and has a large fitness center with a full-size gymnasium. There is no in-room Internet access, but the hotel provides a lounge with Internet service.

RESTAURANTS
MAX DOWNTOWN (860-522-2530, $100 for dinner for two, including wine and tip) bills itself as a contemporary steakhouse, though fish and vegetarian dishes, like herb-roasted Block Island swordfish, make up half the menu. Mr. Stevens calls the malted milk ball creme brulee dessert "sinfully delicious."
Locals recommend the Southern cuisine, like jambalaya and smoked pork ribs, at BLACK-EYED SALLY'S (860-278-7427, $70). Starting at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesdays, patrons can bring their instruments and jam.
Mr. Gershman favors PEPPERCORN'S GRILL (860-547-1714, $70) for its intimate atmosphere. The largely Italian menu currently includes fresh Maine lobster with aborio rice and cranberry beans cooked in a lobster Champagne broth.

ENTERTAINMENT
The Wallace Nutting exhibit that will run through Oct. 19 at the WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (860-278-2670) offers some pointers on becoming a brand name. Mr. Nutting, a minister turned furniture collector and photographer, then manufacturer of reproductions, relied on a Madison Avenue advertising agency to help develop his persona in the early 20th century, and has been called an early Martha Stewart.
Although Mark Twain's classics "Tom Sawyer" and "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" were set along the Mississippi, they were written in the Tiffany-decorated MARK TWAIN HOUSE (860-493-6411), where the writer lived for 17 years.

LOCAL LORE
In mid-July, Charles C. Spandoni of West Hartford, a vice president and general counsel for the Triumph Capital Group, a Boston investment company, was convicted of paying $2 million in bribes to friends of the former state treasurer, Paul J. Silvester, in an apparent effort to secure a $200 million investment in a company bond fund.

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Tuesday about Hartford as a business destination misstated the extent of Internet access at the Hastings Hotel and Conference Center. It provides in-room access, not just a lounge with Internet service.
An article in Business Day on Aug. 19 about Hartford as a business destination misstated the name of an executive of the Triumph Capital Group who was convicted of paying $2 million in bribes to friends of the former state treasurer, a case mentioned as part of the city's local lore. He is Charles B. Spadoni, not Charles C. Spandoni.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction is under way on a $190 million Convention Center at Adriaen's Landing, a 30-acre complex in Hartford. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); BAKERIES (69%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (64%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: JETER COOK & JEPSON ARCHITECTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: ZIPKIN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARTFORD (CONN); ; 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



453 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 637 words

PERSON: Thomas W. Kellogg 

HEADLINE: Thomas W. Kellogg, 71; A Studebaker Avanti Designer 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Thomas W. Kellogg, an industrial designer who worked on the Avanti, a radically styled, powerful sports coupe that could not save its maker, Studebaker, from financial collapse, died on Thursday in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Irvine, Calif.
 A daughter, Kris Machado, said Mr. Kellogg suffered several broken ribs two weeks ago when his car hit a center divider. He had also had congestive heart failure and lung disorders for years. 
 The Studebaker-Packard Corporation was teetering on the brink of financial collapse when Sherwood Egbert became its president in 1961. He decided the company needed a hot, splashy car and hired Raymond Loewy, a giant among 20th-century designers, who had earlier worked for Studebaker and whose designs ranged from streamlined locomotives to the logos of Shell and Lucky Strike.
Just 10 days after being hired, Mr. Loewy put together a team of three designers to work with him -- John Ebstein, Robert Andrews and Mr. Kellogg. Mr. Loewy, who died in 1986, rented a two-room bungalow near his own home in Palm Springs, Calif., for a design studio. In two weeks, they had produced a small-scale model of the Avanti, whose name comes from the Italian word for forward.
A few weeks later, a full-scale model was completed. Studebaker's board ordered that the car be built as the company's answer to the Ford Thunderbird, with the provision that it be ready in one year. It was a great success when introduced at the New York Auto Show in April 1962.
The car was a two-door, four-passenger coupe with a long hood, short trunk, an asymmetrical power bulge on the hood, virtually no chrome trim and no fins. The interior was inspired by aircraft flight decks, with numerous toggle switches on the console. 
The Avanti exhilarated sports car enthusiasts and was even exhibited as sculpture in art galleries, but it was not enough to save Studebaker. The company, which had stopped making Packard automobiles in the late 50's, closed its American Studebaker operations in 1963 and its last plant, in Canada, in 1966.
But the car refused to fade away; a succession of small manufacturers have since made cars inspired by and sometimes named for the Avanti. Mr. Kellogg helped design some of them. There are also Avanti owners' groups, which invited Mr. Kellogg to speak.
"I've concluded that the car is cosmic," Mr. Kellogg said in an interview with The Associated Press in 2000. "It has some sort of personality or spirit that keeps finding people to take it over and stroke it and keep it going."
Thomas William Kellogg was born in Monrovia, Calif., on March 31, 1932. He grew up on a farm in Illinois, with early memories of sitting on his father's lap and holding the steering wheel of the family car. At 15, he learned to drive in a Studebaker.
He graduated from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena in 1955. Mr. Loewy became aware of his work when he visited the school. Mr. Kellogg was totally unprepared for the master designer's call.
"At first he thought it was a joke," Ms. Machado said, "but then he heard the French accent."
Mr. Kellogg is survived -- in addition to his daughter, who lives in Aliso Viejo, Calif. -- by his former wife, Greta, of Irvine; another daughter, Kara Kellogg of Irvine; his son Thomas Jr. of Irvine; his sisters Diane Lowe of Glendale, Calif., and Susan Farrel of Torrance, Calif; his brother, Garth, of Palm Desert, and four grandchildren.
After the Avanti, Mr. Kellogg went on to work on designs for exteriors of Rolls-Royce, Porsche and recreational vehicles; dinnerware for Wedgwood; the interior design of the DC-10 aircraft for McDonnell Douglas; and the shuttle craft for the "Star Trek" television series. 
In the hospital room where he died, according to his daughter Ms. Machado, Mr. Kellogg remarked, "This is a nicely designed room."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas W. Kellogg, left, in 1961, with the master designer Raymond Loewy, who hired him.; The 1962 Studebaker Avanti, a competitor of the Ford Thunderbird. (Photographs from tomkelloggdesign.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCULPTURE (73%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); TRAINS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); TRADE SHOWS (64%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

KELLOGG, THOMAS W; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (52%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



454 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Allow Northwest Air To Use Stock In Pensions 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
The Labor Department issued a rare exemption to federal pension rules yesterday, allowing the Northwest Airlines Corporation to use the stock of a regional airline subsidiary to help cover the $1 billion shortfall in its employee pension plans.
 The action, approved by the department's Employee Benefits Security Administration, allows Northwest to contribute up to 100 percent of the stock of Pinnacle Airlines, based in Memphis, to its three plans to fund a $223 million pension obligation for 2002. 
 Federal rules generally bar companies from contributing the stock of subsidiaries to their pension plans. In January, Northwest had contributed $44 million in Pinnacle stock to its pension funds, but the amount was not large enough to require a federal waiver. 
Pinnacle is wholly owned by Northwest of Eagan, Minn. The stock of Pinnacle is owned by Northwest and is not publicly traded. Operating as Northwest Airlink, Pinnacle flies from Northwest's hubs in Minneapolis, Detroit and Memphis to smaller cities.
Northwest had pension fund assets of $4.4 billion in January 2001, about $1 billion below what would be needed to fully fund its programs, which cover nearly 73,000 retired and current employees. The assets have deteriorated significantly since then, because of the decline in the stock market and the industry's own problems, and Northwest has been on an aggressive program to cut costs. 
The exemption was opposed by some of Northwest's labor unions, which argued that it would permit other financially weak airlines to follow suit, letting them hoard cash that rightly belonged to pension plans. But the department said it was convinced that enough safeguards were in place to protect the pension assets of employees.
Specifically, the department said Northwest's plans would be overseen by an independent fiduciary, who would determine a value for the Pinnacle shares at the time that Northwest decides to contribute them. The financial overseer, from Fiduciary Counselors, would decide whether the shares would be a prudent investment for the plans. The fiduciary would sit on the Pinnacle board, and would be able to direct Northwest to repurchase the stock, department officials said. 
Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao, a former director of Northwest, recused herself from the deliberations over the exemption.
The department has issued only about a half-dozen such exemptions in the past, notably to the General Motors Corporation, which contributed $6 billion in stock from its Electronic Data Systems subsidiary to its pension plan in 1994. 
Federal officials also granted an exemption to Pan American World Airways in 1989. Pan Am ceased flying in the early 1990's, however, and its pension plan is still the subject of lawsuits.
Not long after applying for the exemption, Northwest's chief executive, Richard H. Anderson, had warned that the carrier was in danger of following US Airways and United Airlines into bankruptcy, and he asked unions to grant nearly $1 billion in wage and benefit cuts. But analysts said that Northwest's financial situation was not as dire and that its cash position was better than that of United or of American Airlines, which won union cuts by also threatening to seek Chapter 11 protection. 
Earlier this month, Mr. Anderson said he did not think a bankruptcy filing would be necessary, although the airline is still seeking reductions in wages and benefits.
The airline said in a statement that it was "pleased by the decision," and called it "another step in our overall strategy to ensure that the airline has sufficient liquidity during the current economic downturn."
Alan D. Lebowitz, a deputy assistant secretary at the Labor Department, said the airline did not say what the effect of a cash contribution would be on its financial situation, nor did the department ask whether it would weaken the company.
"Having come to us, it's our job to determine whether the statutory criteria for granting of exemptions shall be met. After a fairly long and arduous process, we have determined that it is," Mr. Lebowitz said.
The ruling drew a mixed reaction from Northwest's unions. The pilots agreed to support the application, even though their pension plan had previously barred the use of stock as a funding mechanism. 
"The structure of the negotiated agreement minimizes the downsize risk; it does allow Northwest to preserve liquidity while allowing Northwest to make contributions to the employee pension plan," said Will Holman, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association at Northwest.
Jim Atkinson, the local president of Northwest's mechanics union, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, said he was "disappointed and surprised" by the ruling. "When you're talking about a pension fund, you have to be very careful," Mr. Atkinson said. "Part of our fear is that this will open the door for other airlines and we will see this go like an infectious disease through the industry."
But Mr. Lebowitz said he knew of no other pending applications for exemptions. He added each would be rigorously examined, as was Northwest's application, which triggered thousands of letters from airline employees. "I wouldn't expect this to be the norm," he said. "These are fairly unusual, very fact-specific cases." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); LITIGATION (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (95%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); MESABA AVIATION INC (56%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (51%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NORTHWEST AIRLINES; PINNACLE AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (95%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (58%); ELAINE CHAO (58%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



455 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filings Increase to a Record 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bankruptcy filings by consumers soared to a record 1.61 million in the year that ended on June 30, as unemployment touched a nine-year high, court records show. 
 Filings increased 30 percent over 2000, the Administrative Office of the United States Courts said. 
 The total of personal and business filings, 1.65 million, is also a record for any 12-month period. Business appeals for relief from creditors dropped to 37,182, from 39,201 in 2002. 
Corporations are in far better shape this year than last, the courts' data showed. Corporate filings are falling as low interest rates have allowed companies to cut borrowing costs, according to a separate report from PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
"However, the increase in economic activity anticipated for the second half of 2003 might not arrive soon enough to improve the financial stability of some companies, so the pace of bankruptcy filings will remain high relative to historical levels," the report concluded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) BANKRUPTCIES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (58%) PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



456 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plant Finds Efficiency Is No Protector 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM with ANNE BERRYMAN 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company's assembly plant near Atlanta is one of the most productive car factories on the continent, but a top union official there said today that its future was in doubt.
 Ford told union workers at a meeting in June that no new product is scheduled for the plant in the Atlanta suburb of Hapeville, which employs 2,300 hourly workers and produces the aging Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable sedans, according to Mitchell Smith, the top United Automobile Workers official at the plant. 
 Workers were also told that plans to build a new factory in Georgia were also suspended, Mr. Smith said. 
Coming during a summer of labor contract talks, these developments reinforce the challenge that unions face in stemming the flight of domestic manufacturing jobs and the struggles of domestic automakers to bring costs in line with foreign rivals.
The development was reported today by The Detroit News, and some details of the meeting were previously reported by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
The local union had expected that the plant would be used to produce either the Futura, which comes out in 2005 and will be one of two family sedans to begin replacing the Taurus, or a new sports wagon. Ford has decided to build these vehicles in Mexico and Canada, Mr. Smith said, where labor costs less.
The Atlanta plant will continue to produce the Taurus and Sable -- whose sales have been sagging -- through the 2009 model year.
"I think it's a slap in the domestic market's face," Mr. Smith said. "They've got the best work force in the world here, they indicate they're going to stake the future on the work force, and then they give them the status quo and the new product goes to the Mexicans and Canadians."
Ed Lewis, a Ford spokesman, said, "the work force has done a good job and Ford wants to continue its presence in Georgia, but we're not in a position to discuss our future product plans or manufacturing strategy."
The future of the Atlanta plant is not likely to be clear until contract negotiations are completed.
Ford's comments to the union about the plant's future could simply be a negotiating tactic, though analysts say that such a hard-line approach would make it unlikely that Ford would be chosen the lead company in the negotiations, which are expected to conclude next month. In past years, the union chose Ford as its target company precisely because it had a history of being conciliatory on job security issues. But Ford's shaky financial standing means it is not in position to offer any guarantees this year, analysts said.
In the contract talks, which take place every four years, the union selects one company to focus on and the deal they reach there sets the pattern other carmakers follow.
The Atlanta plant was among the five most efficient assembly plants in North America, according to the most recent Harbour Report, a closely watched study of labor productivity.
But the plant itself is an older one, and Ford is trying to catch up to the so-called flexible manufacturing systems prevalent among Asian automakers. Such systems allow different kinds of vehicles to be produced on the same assembly line.
In a recent interview, Roman Krygier, a Ford vice president, said that 75 percent of Ford's plants would have flexible body shops by the end of the decade, saving $1.5 billion to $2 billion in manufacturing costs.
"Flexibility does give you better capacity utilization," he said, because a particular plant would not be restricted to producing a single product that might fall out of favor.
Another consideration is that domestic automakers are reluctant to build new passenger car plants in the United States, where labor costs are high, because whatever slim profit they make from the automotive business comes almost entirely from sport utilities and pickup trucks.
Ford, which lost $6.4 billion in 2001 and 2002, is struggling to compete. In a turnaround plan announced in 2001, the company said its 5.7 million vehicles of North American production capacity was nearly a million too much. The company laid out five plants for closing, including four in the United States. The Atlanta plant was not among them.
Getting the union to agree to such plant closings will be crucial to the Big Three's survival, analysts say.
"Their market share is going down and their costs are not competitive," said Maryann Keller, a longtime auto analyst. "This is the 11th hour for the auto industry."
Workers at the Georgia plant discussed the recent developments between shifts today.
"For years, we were No. 1 in production and No. 1 in sales in North America," said Brian O'Brien, a 50-year-old electrician who has worked at the plant for 18 years. "The work force here can compete with any work force in the world if we're given the right equipment."
Dressed in dark blue coveralls and holding a lunch box, Mr. O'Brien said that he loved his job and would like to see Ford produce new models at the Hapeville plant, rather than create jobs overseas.
"We've got workers here making good hourly wages," he said. "Think of the effect it has on the American economy."
"More and more jobs are going overseas," he added. "If you take this plant and move it to Mexico, all of that money goes there."
Paul Malizia, 48, a pipe fitter at the plantsince 1986, said that what might be good for the company was bad for plant workers.
"It's no matter how hard workers work," he said. "If a company doesn't want your plant, they don't want your plant. It's all about money.
"After 30 years in the auto industry, you learn you've just got to go with what's happening. Such are the ups and downs."
Jimmy Dorton, 60, a slender white-haired millwright who retires in October, said he had two sons in college, one at Georgia Tech and the other at Georgia Southern. Their degrees will be worth having, he said, because he believes the days of high-paying manufacturing jobs are numbered. 
"Probably, the union is on its way out," he said. He added: "You can't find a good $30-an-hour job. That's why I keep telling mine to stay in school, getting the education that they need." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Malizia, a pipe fitter at the Ford plant, said: "If a company doesn't want your plant, they don't want your plant. It's all about money." (Photo by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C8); Jimmy Dorton after his shift at the Ford plant in Hapeville, Ga., yesterday. The plant's future is in doubt, the union said, and Mr. Dorton said that is why he urges his children to pursue an education. (Photo by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%) AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; BERRYMAN, ANNE; SMITH, MITCHELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) GEORGIA

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



457 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Seek $609 Million Fee for Negotiating Deal for Retailers With Visa and MasterCard 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT 

 BODY:
After willingly working seven years without pay, the lawyers who negotiated a multibillion-dollar settlement with Visa and MasterCard on behalf of the nation's retailers asked for their paychecks yesterday.
 The lawyers, representing 30 firms led by Constantine & Partners in New York, are requesting $609 million, or about 18 percent of the settlement, plus $19 million in expenses. 
The fees, if approved by Judge John Gleeson of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, would be the largest in the history of class-action antitrust settlements -- more than four times the $148 million, or 14.4 percent, that the plaintiffs' lawyers received in a 1998 case involving Nasdaq. As a percentage, however, the fees would be smaller than the 24 percent that lawyers have averaged in other antitrust settlements over $100 million, said John C. Coffee, a professor at Columbia Law School whom the lawyers hired to review their application. While not impartial, he is among the handful of outside lawyers who have seen the application. He described it as fair considering the risk the case represented, especially for Constantine & Partners. 
"This single case took more than half of the firm's billable hours," Professor Coffee said. "More than half of their time was being invested on anuncompensated basis. I have not seen a case in which a law firm took a greater risk for a greater period of time."
The lawsuit, filed in 1996 by Wal-Mart Stores and the Limited (now Limited Brands), accused Visa and later MasterCard of using their power in the credit card market to force retailers to accept their debit cards. When customers signed for debit card transactions, the sale was routed through Visa's or MasterCard's network, costing the retailer about $1.50 for a $100 transaction. Competing networks charged 14 to 30 cents.
The antitrust case became a class-action lawsuit in 2000, representing five million merchants by the time it was settled in April. MasterCard agreed to pay $1 billion over the next decade, while Visa said it would pay $2 billion, to reflect its greater share of the debit card market. Each company agreed to pay $25 million immediately, for a total payout of $3.05 billion.
Some additional details about the allocation of that money were filed yesterday with the lawyers' fee application. The plan does not say what a typical refund will be, but it gives the hypothetical example of a merchant that accepted $161,600 in signed Visa debit transactions in 2000. According to research conducted by Franklin M. Fisher, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was hired to design the allocation plan, this merchant suffered $2,818 in damages. This would entitle the merchant to $227 of the settlement money.
That $227, a fraction of the damages, may disappoint some retailers, but many tend to agree with antitrust lawyers and retail analysts who say that while the refunds are welcome, the future discounts are the real boon.
Visa and MasterCard cut their debit card fees by a third earlier this month and will renegotiate them in January, when retailers will be permitted to reject the companies' debit cards under the terms of the settlements. The retailers estimate that they will save at least $25 billion over the next decade and as much as $83 billion.
Merchants will have an opportunity to object to the legal fees after reviewing them over the coming weeks. With such a large group, the lawyers are expecting objections, said Lloyd Constantine, the retailers' lead lawyer and the managing partner of Constantine & Partners. But Mr. Constantine said he trusted the opinions of the lawyers and economists who reviewed the fee petition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (96%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); DEBIT CARDS (88%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); MARKET SHARE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: VISA INC (98%); MASTERCARD INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: VISA INTERNATIONAL INC; MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: V (NYSE) (98%); MA (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%) SIC7323 CREDIT BUREAUS; 

PERSON: GLEESON, JOHN (JUDGE); BAYOT, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



458 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Surges in Energy Prices Examined After Power Failure 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA and LANDON THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Volatility tends to be good for traders, and last week's blackout sent some power prices soaring on Friday, creating profit opportunities for some of the nation's biggest energy traders.
 But industry experts say they do not expect energy traders to rake in unusually large profits from the blackout that swept through parts of the Northeast and Midwest. 
 Power prices in the Northeast surged on Friday, the day after the blackout, to more than $1,000 a megawatt-hour, up from the average price of closer to $100. But they dropped back close to their normal level. 
Regulators and other market administrators plan to scrutinize those isolated price surges, and they could adjust or even cancel many of the trades.
Still, the situation is nothing like the California energy crisis in 2000, when big power traders like Enron were accused of reaping huge profits from the state's energy problems, and perhaps even exacerbating the power crisis by engaging in aggressive energy trading tactics.
Today, Enron -- which is struggling to emerge from bankruptcy protection -- does not even have an energy trading operation. Other big energy traders like El Paso Corporation, Dynegy and Aquila Inc. have also left the energy trading business after a series of accounting and trading scandals that trickled out after Enron's collapse in late 2001.
The major forces in the energy industry these days are not big natural gas and power companies but large banks like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup.
Indeed, Wall Street banks moved more aggressively into energy trading when some of the big energy traders pulled out with huge debt loads. And they often moved into the market with stronger balance sheets and the backing of hard assets, like power plants.
For instance, last April, Goldman Sachs, through its energy-trading arm, J. Aron, paid $456 million to buy a 940-megawatt power plant in Linden, N.J., from El Paso. The plant has 85 percent of its capacity under contract and supplies electricity to Consolidated Edison in New York.
The rationale to own the actual power is twofold: the returns to be made on such assets are attractive and the unused capacity, about 130 megawatts in the case of the Linden plant, can be profitably traded on the open markets.
While traders said that Goldman was unlikely to have earned rich trading profits on Friday, the volatility caused by the blackout supported its approach to actually own the electricity it is trading on the market.
"If you are in the market and are short electricity in a period of crisis like last week's blackout, buying from the market can be very costly," said Doug Kimmelman, managing director in the energy division of Goldman Sachs. "But if you actually have the asset you won't get caught in this kind of squeeze."
Some analysts have praised Wall Street's new approach to energy trading.
"To the extent that Goldman can skim the cream off plants like Linden, they will be doing stockholders a big favor," said John Olson, an energy analyst at Sanders Morris Harris in Houston. "Volatility has increased and liquidity has thinned out. This could be a big windfall for Goldman."
Goldman does not break out its commodities trading profits, but last quarter, the company's fixed income, currency and commodities division booked net revenue of $1.5 billion,its second best quarter ever. While the booming bond markets drove the bulk of those profits, analysts say that commodities trading played a substantial role.
Morgan Stanley has also made it a point to own some of the power the company sells. Over the last three years, Morgan Stanley has built three electric power plants.
The plants, which are in Alabama, Georgia and Nevada, have the capacity to produce 500 megawatts of power, all of which can be sold on the open market.
The plants were built in the wake of the California electricity crisis as a means to take advantage of soaring electricity prices and increased demand.
Since then, however, energy demand has weakened in a soft economy, and power prices have dropped.
Now, the energy trading markets are restructuring, with new participants, fewer long-term trading contracts and major banks working in the energy business rather than big energy companies operating like banks, which was one of Enron's innovations.
Trading experts say it is too early to tell how profitable the energy trading business will become, post-Enron.
But many think that the uncertainty surrounding the energy industry in the wake of last week's blackout could provide some good opportunities.
"This could be good for energy trading if the need for transmission brings more people into the market," said David Goodman, director for power trading at Entergy-Koch, which is owned by the Entergy Corporation and Koch Industries. "But hopefully, that won't involve more oversight or regulation, because that could be a negative and stifle capital investments."
Still, while the price spike last week seemed auspicious for energy traders, they have played down the significance of Friday's activity.
"Not much money was made in the markets with Friday trades," said John Shapiro, who runs the energy trading desk at Morgan Stanley. "Five years ago, such spikes were more frequent. Since then the economy has been down and there has been more capacity. New York may be tighter than other markets, but over all they are in better shape now."
In fact, the New York Independent System Operator, which administers the New York power market, is preparing to scrutinize Friday's trading surges.
"We're reviewing those prices," said Carol E. Murphy, a spokeswoman for the agency. "We really did not have a normal market on Friday."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); FUTURES (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SCANDALS (51%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); EL PASO CORP (91%); DYNEGY INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GREAT PLAINS ENERGY INC (68%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); DYN (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GXP (NYSE) (68%); ED (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (68%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; THOMAS, LANDON JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



459 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
After a bitter parting, Kmart picks finalists to succeed 2 agencies.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
A REVIEW for the estimated $200 million to $250 million creative account of the struggling retailer Kmart, which is to resume later this week if, good Lord willing, the lights do not fail, is more extensive than was believed.
 As it turns out, the review, made necessary by Kmart's nasty breakup last month with its creative agency of three years, TBWA/Chiat/Day in New York, has been broadened to include a search for an agency to handle media planning and buying. That is because the Kmart media agency, OMD in New York, stopped working for Kmart this month as a result of its acrimonious and litigious parting with TBWA/Chiat/Day, which like OMD is part of the Omnicom Group. 
 The two finalists in the creative review, selected from an initial field of five agencies, are scheduled to make presentations to Kmart on Friday; the agencies will now include discussions of their media abilities. 
The finalists are Campbell-Ewald in Warren, Mich., near the Kmart headquarters in the Detroit suburb of Troy, and Grey Worldwide in New York, a division of the Grey Global Group. Campbell-Ewald, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, typically works with a media agency that is also owned by Interpublic, Initiative Media, while Grey Worldwide works with the Grey Global media agency, MediaCom Worldwide.
The widespread belief among executives at agencies involved in the review, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, is that Grey Worldwide will probably land the assignment to create television and magazine campaigns for Kmart, which emerged from bankruptcy in May after years of struggling to turn around declining sales under the relentless onslaught of competitors like Wal-Mart Stores and Target. 
One reason the executives said they believed that the Grey Global agencies would prevail was the single-minded determination senior managers there -- including the chief executive, Edward H. Meyer -- have shown in wooing Kmart, particularly with promises to perform creative tasks as economically as possible.
Grey Global "had even tried to get in" the Kmart door three years ago, one executive said, after TBWA/Chiat/Day won a previous review for the creative account but before it had started working on the assignment.
Jan A. Sneed, a spokeswoman for Grey Global, said yesterday that the agency was "working on further development of a presentation to Kmart." She declined to elaborate.
Lori A. McTavish, a spokeswoman for Kmart, said: "At this point, the review is ongoing and still in process. We have not set a deadline." She declined to comment further.
Grey Worldwide has extensive retail experience, creating campaigns for chains like Dairy Queen, Ethan Allen and Olive Garden. Campbell-Ewald also has a lengthy list of retail clients including Chevrolet, Pearle Vision and Pier 1 Imports. Campbell-Ewald could not be reached for comment; telephone calls to the agency, in the part of Michigan hit hard last week by the blackout, were still being met yesterday by fast busy signals.
While the bitter ending of the relationship between Kmart and TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of Omnicom, was widely reported in late July after the agency and retailer filed suits against each other, the parting of ways between OMD and Kmart had not been covered.
In response to a question yesterday, Pat Sloan, a spokeswoman for OMD and Omnicom, confirmed that OMD was no longer working for Kmart, effective Aug. 1. "The OMD relationship was through TBWA/Chiat/Day," Ms. Sloan said, so when that agency's ties to Kmart were cut, so were OMD's.
It is as crucial for Kmart to find a new media agency as it is to find a new creative agency because the important back-to-school shopping season is under way -- and the beginning of planning for the make-or-break Christmas shopping season is not far off.
Executives at agencies who had been briefed on Kmart's media schedule said that OMD had negotiated agreements in the spring "upfront" market, ahead of the start of the 2003-4 television season, for Kmart to buy an estimated $50 million worth of commercial time on the broadcast networks. A large but unspecified portion of those buys were for September through December, the executives said, including contractually obliged commercial time to run spots promoting a fall "white sale" for Kmart linens, towels and other home goods bearing the Martha Stewart brand name.
What is to become of those commitments is not known. If they are canceled, whichever media agency succeeds OMD might be required to buy commercial time for Kmart in the "scatter" market, as the season is under way. In recent months, prices in the scatter market have been substantially higher than the prices negotiated during the upfront market, which could cost Kmart additional money it can scarcely afford to pay out.
Also unclear is the fate of the "Joe Boxer guy," the popular character in Kmart commercials created by TBWA/Chiat/Day. The character, whose energetic dance while wearing only Joe Boxer underwear has become widely popular, is played by an actor named Vaughn Lowery. While typically the client retains rights to intellectual property created by its previous agency, Mr.Lowery had a close relationship with the TBWA/Chiat/Day executives who worked with him.
Indeed, it was spots for Joe Boxer that were at the center of the dueling suits filed by Kmart and TBWA/Chiat/Day. Kmart struck first, on July 22 in a Michigan state court, asserting that the agency had refused to release a series of Joe Boxer commercials, already produced, unless it was paid $2.4 million that TBWA/Chiat/Day executives insisted they were owed.
After the state court judge ordered the agency to release the spots, a federal court judge approved a request to set aside the order, with TBWA/Chiat/Day saying it had not been paid its retainer by Kmart since May. The two sides then reached a settlement out of court that gave Kmart its commercials and the agency its money.
The dispute came as Kmart contacted other agencies besides TBWA/Chiat/Day, seeking proposals to position the Kmart brand. That decision embittered the senior managers of TBWA/Chiat/Day because they had continued working with Kmart through the bankrupcty filing, agreeing to reduce their fee, and through substantial turnover in the Kmart executive suite that had the agency most recently working with the retailer's chief information officer after the departures of several executives responsible for advertising and marketing.
Kmart executives met in late July with representatives of Campbell-Ewald, Grey Global and the three other agencies seeking to replace TBWA/Chiat/Day. The three that did not advance to the final round were: Doner, in Southfield, Mich.; Euro RSCG MVBMS Partners in New York, part of Havas; and J. Walter Thompson in New York, part of the WPP Group. Campbell-Ewald and Grey Global were selected as finalists two weeks ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vaughn Lowery, the "Joe Boxer guy" of Kmart commercials, heads a cast in a back-to-school spot. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (65%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; ACCOUNT CHANGES 

COMPANY: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (93%); KMART CORP (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); CAMPBELL-EWALD CO (84%); MEDIACOM WORLDWIDE (84%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (74%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CAMPBELL-EWALD; GREY WORLDWIDE; TBWA/CHIAT/DAY; KMART CORP 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PIR (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (58%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



460 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Profits Rise 28% at Lowe's; Toys 'R' Us Narrows Loss 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Lowe's Companies, the No. 2 home improvement chain behind Home Depot, reported a nearly 28 percent gain in its second-quarter earnings yesterday as homeowners caught up on spring projects delayed by cold and wet weather. 
 Another retailer, Toys "R" Us Inc., which is No. 2 in toys behind Wal-Mart, said that it cut its second-quarter loss by a third. The company said that higher sales for its Internet, international and baby products divisions helped offset larger overhead expenses and slumping sales at its United States toy and children's apparel stores. 
Lowe's, based in Wilkesboro, N.C., posted a profit of $597 million, or 75 cents a share, for the quarter ended Aug. 1, up from $467 million, or 59 cents a share, a year ago.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had projected earnings of 69 cents.
"Very impressive numbers," said Colin McGranahan, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein who follows Lowe's stock. "Across the board, they showed strong momentum on things such as comparative store sales."
Sales at Lowe's increased 17 percent, to $8.77 billion, up from $7.49 billion in the year-ago quarter. Comparable store sales for the second quarter increased 6.9 percent.
"As we had expected, Americans' passion for home improvement projects surged as the weather improved across most of the U.S.," Lowe's chairman and chief executive, Robert L. Tillman, said.
Lowe's said it had sales strength in every product category, including the more expensive items as consumers returned to its stores to catch up on projects.
Shares of Lowe's rose $3.06, to $51.96.
Toys "R" Us, based in Wayne, N.J., said its net loss for the quarter that ended Aug. 2 was $11 million, or 5 cents a share. That matched the consensus forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. In the year earlier, Toys "R" Us had a net loss of $17 million, or 8 cents a share.
The company said that excluding an accounting change involving vendor credits and allowances for cooperative advertising, its second-quarter net loss would have been $5 million, or 2 cents.
Total sales for the quarter reached $2.14 billion, up 3.3 percent from $2.07 billion a year earlier, despite the weak economy and tough competition. Excluding the effect of favorable currency exchange rates, revenue rose only 0.6 percent.
Shares of Toys "R" Us rose 83 cents, to $12.71.

GRAPHIC:  Photo: Lowe's said its second-quarter earnings improved as homeowners decided to catch up on projects postponed by a period of bad weather. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BABY PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (74%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (55%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); CURRENCIES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) HOME REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS; TOYS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (98%); TOYS 'R' US INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWE'S COMPANIES; TOYS 'R' US INC 

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (98%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (98%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (85%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (85%) SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS; SIC5945 HOBBY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



461 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Lashes Out at Neighbors and U.S. 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Amid signs of growing diplomatic and military isolation, North Korea lashed out at the United States, South Korea and Japan today, barely a week before the scheduled start of international talks on North Korea's nuclear program.
 Russia, traditionally an ally of North Korea, embarked today on a 10-day maritime exercise, partly in waters near North Korea, that will involve Japan and South Korea, two traditional enemies of the North. The exercise is the first time that warships from those three countries have conducted joint maneuvers. 
 Also today, China and Japan announced that for the first time they would conduct mutual visits by warships. In addition, on Sept. 1, Shigeru Ishiba, chief of Japan's Defense Agency, is to travel to Shanghai and Beijing, the first visit by a Japanese defense minister in five years. 
Accentuating North Korea's isolation, a South Korean navy patrol boat fired five rounds today at a North Korean fishing boat, which entered what South Korea considers its territorial waters.
All this comes only a day after the United States announced plans for joint naval exercises next month in the Coral Sea off northeastern Australia, a move that American officials said was intended to send a message to North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons program.
"I'd like to solve this diplomatically, and I believe we can," President Bush told Armed Forces Radio and Television in an interview released by the White House today. "It's going to take a lot of persuasion by countries besides the United States to convince him."
North Korea, in response to this effort to isolate it ahead of the talks scheduled from Aug. 27 to 29 in Beijing, blasted the United States today, attacking Washington for leading 10 other nations in the Proliferation Security Initiative, an alliance devised to intercept North Korean ships suspected of carrying contraband.
North Korea insisted that it "cannot dismantle its nuclear deterrent force at the talks" unless "it becomes clear that the U.S. does not hinder the economic cooperation" between North Korea and other countries, the official Korean Central News Agency said.
The North also insisted on a nonaggression pact with Washington as a condition for ending its nuclear activities.
North Korea also turned on Japan for visits conducted Friday by four cabinet members and more than 50 members of Parliament to Yasukuni Shrine, a Shinto war memorial seen by many Koreans and Chinese as a symbol of Japanese militarism.
Japanese "reactionaries" were trying "to realize their wild ambition for the re-invasion of Asia at any cost, calling back the departed souls of militarists, oblivious of a lesson taught by history," the official news agency said.
In an angry slap, the North Koreans also withdrew from the World University Games in Taegu, South Korea, after an Independence Day demonstration last Friday in Seoul during which protesters stomped on an effigy of Kim Jong Il, the North's leader.
But the pressures on North Korea continued to build. On Saturday, prosecutors in Germany, a member of the new American-led alliance, confirmed that they had charged three people with violating export controls by trying to ship to North Korea aluminum tubes that could be used to enrich uranium.
And the biggest slap of all may come this weekend from Russia.
On Saturday, in the thin strip of Russian territory that was a rear staging area for Soviet military support for North Korea in the Korean War, border troops and civil defense officials are to conduct drills based on the premise that huge North Korean refugee flows could start as a result of a new war on the Korean peninsula or by the collapse of the government of Kim Jong Il.
To soften the blow to the North Koreans, the land exercises near Russia's 10-mile border with North Korea are to be closed to reporters. Two North Korean military officers have been invited to observe the naval exercises, which are to involve 75 Russian warships, 20 warplanes and 30,000 soldiers.
China, under the new leadership of Hu Jintao, asked North Korea earlier this year to renegotiate their half-century-old mutual defense treaty. North Korea reportedly replied that the timing was not good, with the United States pressuring North Korea over its nuclear program.
Japan, another maritime neighbor of North Korea, is also growing increasingly wary.
The Japanese Coast Guard has added two patrol cutters armed with 20-millimeter cannons on its west coast facing the Korean peninsula, and 26 officers have been added to customs offices in eight seaports frequented by North Korean freighters.
Surrounded by increasingly hostile neighbors, Mr. Kim, North Korea's leader, increasingly acts like a hunted man. In the last six months, he has kept a low profile, never appearing publicly at an event that was scheduled and publicized ahead of time.
Last March, when American warplanes and cruise missiles started bombing the palaces of Saddam Hussein, Mr. Kim broke a seven-year tradition and failed to appear at the appointed time and place to inaugurate the annual session of his nation's rubber stamp Parliament, the Supreme People's Assembly.
On July 27, the 50th anniversary of the armistice that suspended the Korean War, authorities abruptly canceled a military parade that Mr. Kim was expected to review in Pyongyang.
This month Mr. Kim is skipping the kind of vacation he has had for the last two summers: a train ride through Russia. With North Korea's news agency complaining of surveillance by "American spy planes," Mr. Kim may feel that his train, moving slowly across the countryside, would provide his enemies with an easy target.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Banners with the image of Kim Jong Il of North Korea were defaced during a rally on Friday in Seoul, South Korea, as a protest against suspected nuclear stockpiling in the North. The occasion was South Korea's Liberation Day. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); DISARMAMENT (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); TERRORISM (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); RELIGION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (73%); JAMES J KIM (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BROOKE, JAMES; KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); TAEGU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (95%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; RUSSIA; CHINA; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



462 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Prescription Drugs Now, Day of Reckoning Later 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
President Bush and Congress have agreed to spend $400 billion on prescription drugs for the elderly over 10 years. But they rarely address a basic question: Where does the money come from?
 It will be borrowed from the public, officials say. In practice, economists say, workers of the future -- children and grandchildren of today's Medicare beneficiaries -- will have to pay much of the cost through higher taxes. 
 The federal government has no budget surplus to pay for the new benefits, which are the biggest expansion of Medicare since its creation in 1965. A law that required Congress to offset the cost of new benefits -- either by raising taxes or by cutting other programs -- was allowed to expire in September.
Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, "The resources needed to finance the new drug benefits will come from increased borrowing." Taxpayers of the future will have to pay back the debt, with interest.
James A. Lebenthal, chairman emeritus of Lebenthal & Company, the Wall Street bond dealer, put it this way: "The money comes from the public. Not today's public, but the public you have just sired and that's lying in your bassinet."
The official price of $400 billion reflects the cost to the government after taking account of premiums to be paid by beneficiaries. The Congressional Budget Office said the premiums would total roughly $135 billion over 10 years.
House and Senate negotiators are trying to work out differences between Medicare bills passed by the chambers in June. The debate has focused on details of the drug benefit, the amount of co-payments and deductibles and the role of private health plans.
But supporters of the legislation, including Mr. Bush, have said little about who would pay for the expansion of Medicare, which is already growing much faster than the economy or tax receipts.
Only a few conservative Republicans have asked how the new benefits would be financed.
Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, said, "My concern is for Charlotte, my 10-year-old daughter, and young families in the work force who will have to bear the cost if we create a huge new universal entitlement."
Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, predicted that the new benefit would end up costing much more than $400 billion. With the government subsidizing 70 percent of the cost of the benefit, he said, use of prescription drugs will rise rapidly. Moreover, he said, Medicare recipients will lobby Congress for more generous drug coverage.
Many Democrats, like Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, describe the Medicare bill as a down payment, a first step. If it becomes law, they say, they will immediately begin a campaign to expand the benefits, which they see as inadequate.
Representative Nick Smith, Republican of Michigan, said: "We are placing a burden on our kids and grandkids and young workers to pay for seniors' drug prescriptions. We're sending the bill to people who are yet to be born or too young to defend themselves."
Costs are expected to grow because scientists are continually discovering medicines to treat diseases of aging and people are living longer. The elderly population, now 36 million, is expected to reach 70 million by 2030.
J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, promised conservatives that he would work with them to see that the final Medicare bill included some mechanism to rein in costs. But he gave no details.
Once the new drug benefit is established, the Congressional Budget Office says, the cost would grow rapidly -- more than 10 percent a year from 2008 to 2013. By contrast, the cost of the existing Medicare program, without new benefits, is expected to grow 7.4 percent a year in the same period.
Mr. Reischauer, an economist who is president of the Urban Institute, said: "If you think the new drug benefit is essential and more important to the future of the nation than the deleterious effects of larger deficits, you support it. The political consequences of increased deficits will pale in comparison with the benefits that politicians get from enacting drug coverage."
Both parties have reasons for avoiding questions about who will pay. Democrats have long wanted to expand Medicare, and most are willing to spend more than $400 billion. President Bush and Republican leaders of Congress, having heard countless complaints about the cost of prescription drugs, say that passage of a Medicare drug bill would help them in the 2004 elections.
The House bill creates a trust fund to pay for drug benefits under Medicare. The Senate bill creates a separate account in an existing trust fund. Neither bill earmarks payroll taxes or any other specific type of revenue for drug benefits. Bothbills make an open-ended commitment of general revenue, which includes income and excise taxes, as needed.
Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said Republicans had aggravated the need for borrowing by cutting taxes. "It is really only a matter of priorities," Mr. Harkin said. "This administration and Congress had no qualms about passing enormous tax cuts for millionaires, but now we have problems coming up with adequate funds for our nation's seniors."
Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan budget watchdog group, said, "There's a rational case to be made for adding a drug benefit to Medicare as a matter of health policy." But he added: "The political consensus in favor of fiscal discipline has totally broken down. Creating a major new entitlement at the same time you're cutting taxes would have been inconceivable just a few years ago." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); BONDS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MIKE PENCE (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



463 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: THE MAYOR; 
Bloomberg Seeks Lessons From Crisis

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg asked two members of his administration yesterday to lead a task force to study New York City's response to last week's blackout.
 "I think we did a good job," Mr. Bloomberg said on CBS's "Early Show," one of four morning news programs on which he appeared yesterday. "We just have to make sure we learn from this and then go through the scenario of what would have happened if the power had been out for a longer period of time, if it had started at a different time, if the weather had been different and people couldn't walk home." 
 The group, to be called the Task Force on Emergency Response, will be led by Susan L. Kupferman, the director of the mayor's office of operations, and Andrew M. Alper, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. The task force will be given 30 days to report on how the city handled the crisis and how it can improve.
The task force will study a failure of the city's emergency dispatch system on Thursday night that briefly disrupted its ability to send ambulances and other emergency vehicles to respond to 911 calls. Officials said that a backup power system failed three times that night, for 7 to 14 minutes each time. But they said that all the emergency calls were eventually answered, and that they did not know of any serious incidents that were caused by the mishap.
The task force will also look at the city's procedures for testing backup generators, and explore whether it would be practical for hospitals and other essential services to not only start up their generators periodically but to actually use them and see how long they last.
About a dozen people from both the public and private sectors will be asked to serve on the task force, said Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary.
Mr. Bloomberg also spoke about his efforts to get power restored to New York City on Friday. He threatened to sue Consolidated Edison, which distributes power in the city, to try to force it to disobey an order from the New York Independent System Operator, the organization that administers the wholesale electricity market throughout the state, to reduce power to the city.
"My attitude was that wasn't fair," he said on NBC's "Today" show.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who represents Lower Manhattan, one of the last areas to have power restored, announced that the Assembly would hold hearings exploring "delays in restoring power to some residents of New York City." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (60%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Hospitals; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Emergency Telephone Numbers ; Medicine and Health; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Michael Cooper; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Susan L Kupferman; Andrew M Alper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



464 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Intelligence To Be Shared, Ridge Tells Governors 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Tom Ridge, secretary of homeland security, told the nation's governors today that his department was taking added steps to make sure they are given all necessary intelligence to respond quickly to a terrorist attack or the threat of one.
 Speaking at the summer meeting of the National Governors Association, Mr. Ridge said that in addition to the governors, five senior officials in each state would be given top-secret security clearances to receive classified information, and that when the color-coded terror alert changed, governors would get any information federal intelligence agencies have on specific targets. 
 "We still have a long, long way to go," said Mr. Ridge, who was governor of Pennsylvania before President Bush appointed him to oversee domestic security. "But I'm confident that if we can work through governors down through mayors and local governments, we will get stronger and more secure every single day in the future as we have every single day since 9/11."
In public remarks to the state leaders, which echoed what he said to them in a private session earlier, several governors said, Mr. Ridge outlined other steps that the Bush administration was taking to make the country's terror-response system more effective.
 He said the department was creating a "one-stop shop" that would make applying for federal grants easier and faster for governors. He also urged them to complete the department's request that they identify 150 high-visibility targets in each state to aid in federal protection efforts, before going back to identify 180 more. "Sharing information," he said, "is at the heart of what we do as a country."
For the most part, the governors welcomed him as a onetime colleague whom they were counting on to convince Congress of their financial needs. With most of their allocation for domestic security from the 2003 fiscal budget, about $4 billion, already flowing to state and local governments, Mr. Ridge told the governors that they could expect about $3.5 billion from the 2004 budget.
It is hardly enough, many governors said. But in neither their private nor public meetings with Mr. Ridge did any requests for additional money emerge. Still, the governors were thinking about it.
"There is always an issue of resources' not meeting expectations of citizens," Gov. Kathleen Sebelius, Democrat of Kansas, said in an interview. "We're responsible for border-to-border security in our states in the most difficult economic times since the Great Depression. Is there more money we could use? Yes. Is there enough money? Not by any means."
Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, a Republican, said that no one had asked Mr. Ridge directly for more money but that Mr. Ridge had made it clear that "if more money becomes available, he would try all he can to get it for us."
Meeting briefly with reporters before Mr. Ridge arrived, the group's lead governors on security issues, Mitt Romney, Republican of Massachusetts, and Ruth Ann Minner, Democrat of Delaware, said none of the leaders planned at these meetings to ask for more money.
 After most reporters left, the two realized what they had said and laughed. "If we said we were getting enough money, we'd be dead," Ms. Minner told Mr. Romney, who was nodding in agreement. "They'd be holding funerals for us in our states."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Ridge at the governors' meeting in Indianapolis. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (85%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (61%) TERRORISM; GOVERNORS (US); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN 

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; RIDGE, TOM (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



465 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; 
2 Airlines Are Exception To Cutthroat Competition

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey 

 BODY:
More than 4,800 people, a record, attended the National Business Travel Association annual convention in Dallas last week. One highlight, many agreed, was an unusual dialogue and question-and-answer session featuring Gordon M. Bethune, chief executive of Continental Airlines, and Richard H. Anderson, chief of Northwest Airlines.
 Continental and Northwest are considered to be among the most financially stable of the big airlines, though both have been struggling to overcome losses that have nearly swamped the industry in the last two years. 
 Three years ago, Continental and Northwest entered into a marketing alliance -- Delta Air Lines joined in June -- that enables them to book passengers on each other's flights. Passengers, in turn, are able to claim frequent-flier miles and other benefits on either airline, no matter whose logo is on the fuselage. 
But in an era of supposed cutthroat competition among airlines, intensified by fierce fare-cutting to compete with aggressive low-fare carriers, I was surprised by the obvious closeness of the relationship that has developed between Continental and Northwest.
Of the alliance, Mr. Bethune said, "We give ourselves more breadth and scope because we work together" on joint bookings, and on services like reciprocal airline club membership and frequent-flier benefits. 
"You're our customer whether you're at Delta, Northwest or Continental, and you've got the whole world to choose from," he added. "Northwest and ourselves, over the last three years we've really learned to work together. We got our services linked electronically, our tickets are linked, so that when you leave Duluth" -- on Northwest -- "and you head to Lima, Peru" -- on Continental -- "we know you're coming. Your bag's going to make it."
With Delta now a partner in the alliance, Mr. Bethune added: "The three of us, I think, are going to offer better selection, better alternatives to what you have today. I can't see who's the loser except some of those guys up in Chicago or maybe this town." (United Airlines is based in Chicago and American Airlines is based at the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.)
Corporate travel managers, who negotiate discounts with airlines based on the volume of business, say they worry about competing airlines becoming too cozy. But Mr. Anderson said the alliance provided logistical benefits to overwhelmed travel managers trying to match fares with routes and with known levels of customer service.
"The practical notion you should all keep in mind about the alliance is the three-way contracts, where Northwest, Delta and Continental together will provide a single corporate contract in a joint-bid process," he said. "At Continental and Northwest, we have many joint contracts with corporations, and what this allows us to do is really make the map much bigger for you. Most importantly, we treat Gordon's customers, Continental's customers, as if they're our customers. And they do the same thing."
He added: "Candidly, that's completely different than some of the other alliances, that will go nameless here, that are more about advertising and less about real substance. We're very connected -- our passengers are Gordon's passengers and Gordon's passengers are our passengers."
In the wide-ranging 90-minute session, the two executives insisted that full-service airlines with international route structures based on hub-and-spoke scheduling would survive and even prosper against low-fare carriers flying mostly point to point within the United States -- providing costs and fares can be kept down. They also agreed that airlines in the United States would probably not be avid customers for big new airplanes, such as the 550-seat A-380 airliner being developed by Airbus.
"From a consumer's perspective, what's in it for me to sit on an airplane with 500 other people, to wait for my bag with 500 other people, check in with 500 other people?" Mr. Bethune asked. 
"Consumers really don't get anything from that." he continued. "What they want is a nonstop. And the number of cities than can be served efficiently with a 500-seat airplane and a nonstop are very few."
Mr. Anderson said, "I don't think the A-380 is going to sell other than to cargo carriers in the U.S." Northwest, he said, already has "a lot of 747's -- and 747's are too big for a lot of markets." He added, "Remember, the reason historically we had really big airplanes was because those were the only airplanes that could fly a long way."
Now, he said, Northwest is planning to depend for long-haul flights on more economical aircraft like the A-330 series, whose latest model is "a two-engine, 240-seat airplane that can fly across the Pacific from San Francisco to Tokyo."
Mr. Bethune, who has stressed customer service and technological innovation at Continental, took a crack at several competitors when asked to discuss the industry's dismal economics and the option airlines have of filing for bankruptcy protection. 
"There's a misconception somehow that a bankruptcy judge can fix your company," he said, in a barely veiled reference to United Airlines' current occupancy of bankruptcy shelter and to speculation that American Airlines might also be forced to file for such protection.
"A bankruptcy judge can kind of work on your balance sheet," he said. "But at the end of the day, if you were a crummy company and went into bankruptcy, and you're a crummy company coming out, you ain't going to make it. The real challenge for those bankrupt companies is to change themselves, and to change the issues that put them in the tank in the first place.
"It's not an issue of changing your prices. Sure, you've got to fix your cost structure, but you've got also to fix your attitudes and the problems that got you in there." 
Viable airlines need to accept the fact that more money is not going to be coming in the door anytime soon, and cut costs accordingly, Mr. Bethune said, adding, "Next year, revenue just stays kind of crummy, the way it is today."

On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIR SERVICE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%) CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (77%) BETHUNE, GORDON; ANDERSON, RICHARD H; SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (91%); PERU (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



466 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Expected Wednesday on Effort to Delay California Recall Election 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
A federal court judge promised today that he would rule by Wednesday on a lawsuit seeking to delay California's Oct. 7 recall election because some counties will still be using outdated punch-card machines. 
 "It seems to me that when issues of this seriousness are raised, they deserve a response," said Judge Stephen V. Wilson after hearing arguments on whether to postpone the vote on Gov. Gray Davis and his possible replacements. The decision could postpone the statewide recall election until next March. 
 The court activity came amid signs that many in the state's traditionally Democratic labor movement are growing increasingly nervous about Mr. Davis's ability to survive. In a blow to the governor, the California State Employees Association today hedged its bets, announcing that it opposed the recall but supported Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante to replace Mr. Davis if the recall succeeds.
The actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, one of Mr. Davis's most potent challengers, also made plans today to step up his campaign. His aides announced that he would convene an economic forum on Wednesday in Los Angeles to discuss ways to revitalize the California economy.
Among those expected to attend are Warren Buffett, the investor, and George P. Shultz, the former secretary of state, both of whom are advising the Schwarzenegger campaign.
Mr. Schwarzenegger is also preparing to begin television advertising as early as Wednesday, a campaign aide said. 
The effort to delay the recall election, brought by the American Civil Liberties Union and other civil rights groups, asks that the October vote be delayed to give county elections officials time to replace discredited punch-card voting systems.
Such systems, which failed at high rates in Florida during the contested 2000 presidential election, are in use in Los Angeles, San Diego and seven other California counties. More than half the state's 15 million registered voters live in those counties.
Lawyers for the state of California said at the hearing in Federal District Court today that punch-card machines here are less troublesome than those in Florida and that the election should go forward as scheduled.
Mark D. Rosenbaum, the A.C.L.U.'s chief lawyer in the case, said that conducting the election on Oct. 7 -- 50 days from now -- is an invitation to disaster.
"It's like running the Indianapolis 500 in a car with four flat tires," Mr. Rosenbaum said.
As the courts try to sort out the conduct of the recall election, a number of traditionally Democratic unions are agonizing over its politics. Until now, these groups have been vocal in their opposition to the recall and reluctant to endorse any of the replacement candidates for fear of appearing to grant the recall legitimacy. But the California State Employees Association today chose to use the the same strategy adopted by most Democrats in the state's Congressional delegation by coming out against the recall but backing Mr. Bustamante should Mr. Davis be ousted.
"Our primary goal is to defeat this costly and politically motivated recall," said Perry Kenny, president of the 140,000-member state employees union. "But in the event that the recall succeeds, we believe that Cruz Bustamante has the experience to serve California at this critical time in our state's history."
The California Teachers Association is conducting interviews with several of the leading candidates, including Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Bustamante, to hear their views on education and the state's budget problems.
The 335,000-member teachers' union has declared its opposition to the recall and urged its members to vote against it, but is now considering changing its position, an official said. Many members of the group are disenchanted with Mr. Davis, who angered teachers last year by opposing them on teacher certification and collective-bargaining issues.
The group ultimately gave Mr. Davis its lukewarm support for reelection last year, but worked closely with Mr. Schwarzenegger to pass a ballot measure that set aside public money for after-school programs.
The 24-member board of directors will meet in special session on Thursday to consider endorsing a candidate to replace him.
The state's largest and most politically active union, the California Labor Federation, A.F.L.-C.I.O., has steadfastly opposed the recall and refused to consider endorsing any candidate. But several local unions are beginning to question that approach and want the federation to consider putting its money and organizing muscle behind Mr. Bustamante in the event that Mr. Davis is toppled. Federation leaders are meeting early next week to discuss the recall. 
For his part, Mr. Davis is trying to appear above the fray.
But the governor is considering a statewide address later this week to defend his record and lay out an agenda for what he would do if allowed his remaining three years in office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); AUTO RACING (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) ELECTIONS; RECALL (ELECTIONS); GOVERNORS (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION; VOTING MACHINES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%); STEPHEN R WILSON (76%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) BRODER, JOHN M; WILSON, STEPHEN V (JUDGE); BUSTAMANTE, CRUZ (LIEUT GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



467 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2067 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg and City Unions Draw the Lines, Far Apart 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
John V. Lindsay's tenure was defined by strikes, the first one hitting only hours after he was sworn in. Edward I. Koch and Rudolph W. Giuliani started off talking tough, but ended up awarding hefty raises to municipal workers that left the city in a bind when recessions hit. David N. Dinkins squeezed some of the same unions that had helped elect him and then never got a chance to serve a second term.
 The success or failure of a New York City mayor, or at least his reputation as a leader or wimp, hinges in part on his finesse in handling labor negotiations. Now it is Michael R. Bloomberg's turn. 
 In hard times especially, the outcome of contract talks can mean the difference between a clean city and a filthy city, a happy work force and a foot-dragging work force. It can mean stability for taxpayers or a heavier burden. Next year it could even mean tax relief. 
For the last year, Mr. Bloomberg's attention was focused on the city's budget deficit. But meanwhile, contracts for all but 7,500 of the city's 286,000 full- and part-time employees -- including New York City's teachers and principals, police officers and firefighters, correction officers and sanitation workers -- have expired.
Mr. Bloomberg has kicked off the negotiations with an aggressive opening line: there will be no wage increases, unless the unions agree to changes in work rules or benefits that save enough money to pay for the raises.
"Getting real and sustained productivity out of the labor force will unlock the key to wage increase discussions," said Marc V. Shaw, the deputy mayor for operations, who along with James F. Hanley, the city's labor commissioner, is leading the negotiation effort.
So far, however, that position has led to no substantive developments in the negotiations, only animosity and recalcitrance.
"You want me to turn this entire municipal work force into a slave organization for you," said Norman Seabrook, president of the Correction Officers' Benevolent Association, which has9,000 members.
"I don't think so. I don't think so," he said.
As if to prove the point, Mr. Seabrook and his union last week declared a full-scale effort to oust Martin F. Horn, Mr. Bloomberg's handpicked correction commissioner. The declaration has had little real impact, but it sets the stage for the contentiousness likely to come.
Mr. Bloomberg and his staff say they are not bluffing, and they will share the same message with other union leaders this fall as they begin or restart stalled contract talks. 
Their argument so far has been that the city needs a low-cost labor pact to help it continue on its path toward fiscal stability. And for Mr. Bloomberg, there is the issue of making good on a promise to roll back nearly $1 billion worth of increases in the sales and income taxes that were enacted in the last year as a temporary way to finance city operations.
Many ideas are floating around about how New York City could get through this round of labor contracts without breaking the bank, but so far there is no agreement on any of them. 
Police officers could work more, albeit slightly shorter, days allowing the city to cover the required shifts at a lower cost, Mr. Shaw and Mr. Hanley said. The city's 80,000 teachers could be pressed to give up sabbaticals. Sanitation workers could be asked to pick up more trash.
Citywide, municipal workers could be required to contribute toward the cost of their health insurance, saving at least $200 million annually. The Bloomberg administration proposed converting at least one of the city's holidays for employees to an unpaid day off.
The Independent Budget Office and Citizens Budget Commission have offered their own additional money-saving ideas, such as extending the average workweek for most civilian employees to 40 hours a week, from 35 or 37.5 hours, saving an estimated $498 million annually.
By comparison, simply offering wage increases to city workers at the rate of inflation would cost $1.2 billion in the next fiscal year.
Union presidents scoff at any suggestion that their members should have to give up compensation in one form simply to get a cost-of-living raise. They have offered alternative ways to cut spending, such as replacing high-priced computer consultants with city employees and hiring civilians to do desk jobs now handled by police officers. If the Bloomberg administration accepts these ideas, they say, it could offer raises without demanding concessions from union members.
"If the definition of productivity is how you make the quality of the services better, then I think a lot of unions would be interested in engaging in that discussion," said Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers and chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee.
"If the definition is simply, 'How do you cut costs?' then you'll have a lot of reluctance," she said.
If history is a reliable guide, few of these money-saving ideas will get beyond the negotiating table. Over the last three decades, mayors have repeatedly called for concessions by the unions or major changes in work rules before agreeing to contract settlements. It was so with Mr. Koch in June 1978, Mr. Dinkins in January 1993 and Mr. Giuliani in April 2001. By and large, each returned to the precedent of across-the-board raises with the biggest unions.
What has varied greatly during these different rounds of labor talks is the range of generosity. Tough economic times, or at least convincing evidence that the city is in a fiscal bind, have meant much smaller salary increases for union workers. That was theoutcome during a two-year period during Mr. Giuliani's first term. The result is that between 1993 and 1997, when the city was struggling to recover from the last recession, wages went up by a total of only 8.2 percent for clerical workers, while inflation went up 10.7 percent. 
Yet between 1998 and 2001, while the economy was booming and Mayor Giuliani was in his second term, salaries went up nearly 15 percent for the same employees, much more than inflation did. Teachers and police officers have done particularly well in recent years, winning raises far in excess of inflation.
Mr. Bloomberg confronted the unions early. In a pitch to balance the budget for the 2004 fiscal year, which started July 1, without extensive layoffs, he asked the unions to grant $600 million worth of cuts in fringe benefits. The unions made proposals on pensions and health care that they swore would save $600 million, but Mr. Bloomberg denounced them as smoke and mirrors. When those efforts faltered, he moved ahead with plans for layoffs.
"He said he would work with you, did not, turned around and then laid off municipal workers," said Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. The unions were seething, and negotiations have been stalemated ever since. Equally important to the calculus that goes into labor negotiations is the politics within the unions.
A big factor that could affect the outcome this year is what happens to leadership at the largest municipal union, District Council 37. Representing 125,000 workers, it has often set the pattern for all city unions in contract talks. 
The council's executive director, Lillian Roberts, is up for re-election. Many union leaders say it is extremely unlikely Ms. Roberts will entertain, much less accept, the mayor's demands for concessions because that could make her look weak in the heat of her re-election campaign. 
Ms. Roberts disputes the suggestion that the election will have an impact on her negotiation stands. But she also immediately rejected the mayor's demand that any raises must be financed by concessions on productivity. 
"Our members definitely need a raise," she said. "They have been subjected to tax increases, increases in transportation and their rents. They're the lowest-paid workers in the city work force." (The average entry-level city caseworker earns $29,895, while entry-level teachers earn $39,000 and rookie police officers earn $36,878.)
But there were at least some hints of possible common ground that surfaced during a round of recent interviews with the presidents of all the major unions and the city's top labor negotiators.
For example, Mr. Lynch, the president of the police union, said he would consider longer work shifts, but fewer workdays as a way to help the city cut its huge overtime bill. That is the opposite of what the Bloomberg administration has requested -- it wants shorter days and more shifts -- but at least changes in the Police Department's work schedules appear to be open for discussion by both sides.
As for the city's desire to increase the length of runs by sanitation trucks -- more trash per truck would lower costs -- Harry Nespoli, president of the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association, said, "I am willing to sit down and negotiate anything I can."
In interviews with the heads of the unions representing teachers, firefighters, correction officers, sanitation workers and District Council 37 employees, one of the most common refrains was that before the negotiations can begin in earnest, the Bloomberg administration is going to have to offer a basic raise. Only then, they said, can there be talk about agreeing to money-saving measures as a way to finance raises beyond this minimum. 
So far, though, there is no sign that the mayor plans to change his demand that any raises must be paid for with such concessions. 
"It is not realistic to say we are going to start at zero and you are going to have to give something up to get a raise," said Stephen J. Cassidy, president of the Uniformed Firefighter's Association. The union's contract expired in May 2002.
The administration continues to press for savings, like reducing everyone's vacation days by three; that would save the city an estimated $140 million a year. 
But the city, like the unions, also seems open to another money-saving solution, one that in the short term merely shuffles dollars around but can save the city money out of the operating budget for which it can pay for raises. It involves pensions.
The municipal unions earlier this year proposed saving the city $300 million by deferring payments into its pension fund. At first, Mr. Bloomberg lampooned those proposals, saying they would merely delay spending to later years.
But Deputy Mayor Shaw said in an interview last week that the city might consider that idea if it were coupled with the mayor's proposal to change pension benefits for new city employees, perhaps by cutting out automatic cost-of-living increases. 
That change could provide the city with modest savings short-term but could save billions of dollars in future decades. And it has an added attraction: both sides could present it as a victory.
"It would be a classic New York-style political solution," said E. J. McMahon, a senior fellow for tax and budgetary studies at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy research group. "But once again, they will not have addressed the fundamental issue of productivity."
If there is one thing the mayor and the unions fully agree on, it is that the contract talks will be hugely difficult and hugely important. If Mr. Bloomberg drives too hard a bargain and enrages the unions, they could flex their political muscle and even upend his re-election efforts. Angry unions could also affect worker morale and productivity -- and, consequently, the quality of city services.
But Mr. Bloomberg is not without recourse. If the unions shun his pleas for productivity improvements, he might lay off more workers to balance the budget. He also could delay reaching any contracts, which in effect means an extended wage freeze for city workers.
"The most successful mayors have been the ones who have not overly antagonized unions but have negotiated deals that are in the public interest," said Vincent J. Cannato, author of "The Ungovernable City: John Lindsay and His Struggle to Save New York," and an assistant professor of history at the University of Massachusetts Boston.
For Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Cannato said, the time has come to demonstrate just how well his brilliance as a businessman translates in the arena that is City Hall.
"He made lots of money as a hard-nosed businessman, and in a large part New Yorkers voted for him because he was a successful businessman," Mr. Cannato said. "Now he has to translate that into getting a decent deal for the city."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Showdown Over Contracts"As Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the citys municipal unions prepare for their first major labor contract negotiations, here is a look at some of the major players and issues. District Council 37ACTIVE MEMBERS: 125,000CONTRACT EXPIRATION: June 30, 2002LEADER: Lillian RobertsMAJOR ISSUES: The city's and nation's largest municipal union. Often sets trends in city labor agreements, but Ms. Roberts faces a tough reelection battle this fall and is likely to resist demands for concessions. Ms. Roberts contends labor force has already improved productivity in wake of layoffs. United Federation of TeachersACTIVE MEMBERS: 120,000CONTRACT EXPIRATION: May 31, 2003LEADER: Randi WeingartenMAJOR ISSUES: Ms. Weingarten has been unhappy with the mayor and chancellor for imposing educational changes without working with teachers. Says her union will only consider productivity measures that improve services and schools, not those that merely cut costs and hurt morale and delivery of services. Patrolmen's Benevolent AssociationACTIVE MEMBERS: 21,800CONTRACT EXPIRATION: July 31, 2002LEADER: Patrick J. LynchMAJOR ISSUES: Mr. Lynch has expressed a willingness to discuss revising the work schedule so that officers would have longer shifts but fewer of them. City officials meanwhile want the officers to work more shifts each year. Either way, savings generated as a result of any schedule change could help finance raises. Correction Officers' Benevolent AssociationACTIVE MEMBERS: 9,000CONTRACT EXPIRATION: Jan 31, 2003LEADER: Norman SeabrookMAJOR ISSUES: City tried last spring to settle with this union first and set a pattern for other unions. Offer included extending many shifts at Rikers Island from 8.5 to 12.5 hours, to save millions in overtime and absenteeism. Mr. Seabrook balked because city wouldn't channel enough of the savings into raises. Uniformed Firefighters AssociationACTIVE MEMBERS: 8,700CONTRACT EXPIRATION: May 31, 2002LEADER: Stephen J. CassidyMAJOR ISSUES: Union leaders argue that recent budget cuts resulting in the closing of six engine companies and the elimination of a fifth firefighter on 23 engine companies has already resulted in a more productive department, so what the firefighters now deserve is a raise. Uniformed Sanitationmens AssociationACTIVE MEMBERS: 6,700CONTRACT EXPIRATION: Oct. 22, 2002LEADER: Harry NespoliMAJOR ISSUES: The union president has indicated he is willing to discuss increasing the amount of waste the average truck must collect, a switch that would save money that could be applied to raises. THE SALARIESStarting salaries by fiscal year, adjusted for inflation to 2003 dollars. Graph tracks the salaries of a police officer, firefighter, teacher and caseworker since 1994.(Sources by New York City Office of Management and Budget; the unions)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (51%) Wages and Salaries; Productivity

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (72%) Eric Lipton; Steven Greenhouse; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



468 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Users Discover Pros and Cons In Stair-Climbing Wheelchair 

BYLINE:  By YUDHIJIT BHATTACHARJEE

 BODY:
When Dr. Rich Barbara signed up to test the iBOT -- Johnson & Johnson's stair-climbing wheelchair -- in the summer of 2001, he thought he would be reluctant to give it back at the end of the two-week trial. But impressed as he was with its balancing abilities, Dr. Barbara, a 50-year-old paraplegic, found himself yearning for his manual wheelchair.
 "I was glad when my two weeks were up," said Dr. Barbara, a clinical psychologist at the University of Pittsburgh's Rehabilitation Hospital. 
 The Independence iBOT 3000 Mobility System, which won approval from the Food and Drug Administration last week, was designed by Dean Kamen, a New Hampshire inventor, many years before he introduced his Segway transporter in 2001.
Some of the same sensors and gyroscopes that support the two-wheeled Segway's balancing act on sidewalks lie behind the four-wheeled iBOT's ability to navigate stairs and elevate the user to eye level with the rest of the world, improving the quality of life for many of the two million Americans with mobility-related disabilities.
The F.D.A. approval, which came through after reviewers were satisfied with the results of a Phase 3 trial involving 18 users, opens the doors for Johnson & Johnson to bring the device to market. The iBOT will be first made available at 20 clinics across the country, where doctors and rehabilitation professionals will be trained in its use, a company representative said.
Since the iBOT requires the use of one hand to operate the chair by manipulating a joystick, in addition to judging what kind of terrain to avoid, doctors can prescribe it only to patients who pass a physical and cognitive test.
In Dr. Barbara's experience, the advantages of using the device were offset by some inconveniences.
"It was a trade-off," he said. The iBOT's balancing feature allowed him to climb over street curbs, and its powerful four-wheel drive enabled him to ride across sandy, gravelly and grassy terrain.
But unlike his manual wheelchair and like most other powered wheelchairs, the iBOT was too big to fit into his Honda Civic; he needed a minivan to bring it to work. When he used the iBOT's stand-up function in his kitchen to reach for high shelves, the back and forth motion caused by the front wheels' rolling up and over the rear ones took up so much room that his wife and children had to move into the hallway. In the bathroom, he found it cumbersome to transfer himself from the chair to the toilet seat. And getting to the sink from the iBOT while brushing his teeth was no simple feat.
These difficulties and a price of $29,000 may limit widespread use of the iBOT.
A big question for iBOT's maker and its potential users is whether insurance companies will agree to pay for it. Johnson & Johnson says it is talking to private insurers and public agencies to make room for the iBOT in their reimbursement policies.
"If I am newly injured, the iBOT would help me avoid an average expense of $40,000 on home modification, which includes refurnishing, building ramps and lowering shelves," said Jean-Luc Butel, president of Independence Technologies, the Johnson & Johnson subsidiary that is manufacturing the iBOT. "I would go back to work more quickly; that would lead to further savings. And it's not just a matter of better health economics. It's about quality of life." 
Insurance companies do not always find words like "quality of life" and "comfort" compelling. Julianna Arva of the Swedish wheelchair maker Permobil, said most reimbursement requests for powered wheelchairs have to be backed up by evidence of medical necessity. 
"Every case is a fight," Ms. Arva said. "You request the equipment, the insurer sends you a denial letter. Then your therapist has to fill out reams of paperwork to argue your case. It can be a lengthy process." For those with a degenerative condition like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, waiting a year or more for approval is simply not an option. "That's why many patients opt for a manual wheelchair," she said.
While iBOT's stair-climbing feature may give users a sense of independence they haven't experienced before, competitors say powered wheelchairs with some of iBOT's other features have been around for years. Several companies make chairs with a seat-elevating function. Levo of Switzerland and Pemobil sell wheelchairs in the price range of $24,000 to $26,000 that can prop the user up into a standing position. This function, manufacturers say, helps prevent bone degeneration and muscular atrophy, and improves bowel and bladder function. 
"Stair-climbing may not be a medically necessary function, but it makes a big difference to the user's emotional well-being," said Dr. Rory Cooper, a rehabilitation engineer at the University of Pittsburgh who participated in the 2001 trials along with Dr. Barbara. "The biggest benefit for me was being able to visit homes and restaurants in my neighborhood that have steps leading up to the entrance."
Dr. Cooper said that people like him with good upper body strength would most likely not want to trade their manual wheelchairs for the iBOT, even though they would like to have an iBOT as a second device. "But 10 years from now, if my shoulders and arms were to become weak, I'd consider switching to the iBOT," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Independence iBOT 3000 Mobility System, a stair-climbing wheelchair, won approval from the Food and Drug Administration last week. (Photo by Independence Technology/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); PARALYSIS (78%); US FDA APPROVALS (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (71%) Handicapped; Research; Stairs; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Handicapped; Wheelchairs; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%) Food and Drug Administration; Johnson & Johnson Inc

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%)

PERSON: Yudhijit Bhattacharjee; Rich (Dr) Barbara; Dean Kamen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003 



469 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: FOOD STUFF; 
Tasting the Himalayas In a Bite of Yak Cheese

BYLINE:  By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:
 Unless you read the label, nothing about this lovely new semisoft cheese suggests that it comes from Tibet. Or that it is made from yak milk. 
The cheese resembles Gruyere, though a little less nutty and a bit muskier. Nomadic groups milk their yaks, which feed only on the natural grasses of the high plateau, and take the milk to cheesemaking factories, where it is made into 13-pound wheels, cured with red salt, aged six to nine months and sent to the United States. The project is sponsored by the Trace Foundation, a New York nonprofit organization that works to strengthen the culture and economy of rural Tibetan communities. All profits go to health and education programs. Yak cheese can be nibbled plain, layered in a sandwich or baked in a casserole or in a quiche. It is about $13 a pound at Whole Foods supermarkets, Ideal Cheese, Citarella and the Garden of Eden, at 162 West 23rd Street.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (91%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); CHEESE MFG (88%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); CITIES (74%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Dairy Products; Cheese; Yaks

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); HIMALAYAS (73%) TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%) Tibet; New York City Metropolitan Area 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



470 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Valet Parking? That's So 2000. In Los Angeles, Strip Mall Food Is Way Cool 

BYLINE:  By JANELLE BROWN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IN the back of a dingy strip mall in Hollywood, between a discount cigarette store, a coin-op laundry and a 7-11, sits one of Los Angeles's most revered restaurants: Zankou Chicken. Its walls are plywood, its tables are orange Formica, the floors are sticky, and the fluorescent lights are unflattering. The menu consists of a plastic-laminated poster with faded photographs of some suspiciously pink-hued meat on a rotating spit. 
 Zankou, an Armenian restaurant, could not be farther culturally or aesthetically from the trendy eating places just down Sunset Boulevard. And yet it is a legend in Hollywood, packed at any hour by Armenian families and industry up-and-comers willing to drive a half-hour to eat its $4.29 signature dish, chicken made with roasted garlic. 
 "Zankou is the greatest chicken ever," declared Andrew Miano, 29, a film company executive. "I'd probably eat it out of the garbage can."
Zankou, memorialized in the Beck song "Debra," is Exhibit A in a curious dining phenomenon found mainly in Los Angeles: strip-mall cuisine. Little-known hole in the walls, lurking on just about every major intersection in town, are the antidote to everything flashy and velvet-roped, which is why they remain so popular with Hollywood's next wave, even as trendy boites come and go.
"It's fun to eat without pretensions in a city that has so many," Jeffrey Lieber, 34, a screenwriter said. "It's a relief: no valet parking, no dress code," adding, "and a Slurpee 15 steps away."
Strip malls are a dominant architectural feature of the greater Los Angeles landscape, drab buildings in an L-shape where dentists and dry cleaners sit cheek by jowl with generic-looking establishments serving food from far-flung locales, with names like Uzbekhistan: A Unique Restaurant and Mario's Peruvian and Seafood. 
Although high-concept restaurants do, on occasion, plant themselves in strip malls (like Michael Ovitz's high-priced Japanese endeavor, HamaSaku), most of these restaurants operate decidedly on the cheap: immigrant-owned, low-budget and minimally decorated (plastic signs, faded travel posters, fake flowers in jelly jars). 
Not that this makes a difference: on a typical night, Mario's Peruvian on Melrose draws a dozen patient customers loitering between the cars in the parking lot, gazing plaintively through greasy windows at diners lucky enough to have secured a table and a plate of fried seafood.
Aficionados of restaurants in strip malls tap into a pipeline of inside information about which of them is worth a special trip and which is just a dive. But since half the appeal of this variety of dining is being in the know, even newcomers can catch on quickly as almost everyone -- starving artist and million-dollar director alike -- is eager to share information about favorites. 
Although bulletin boards on Web sites like Chowhound and Citysearch offer mind-boggling numbers of recommendations, the best inside sources generally come by word of mouth. (Mr. Miano was introduced to the joys of Zankou Chicken by his employer, Paul Weitz, director of the 2002 film "About a Boy." )
"You move out here, and people are immediately like, have you tried that place in the mall? That little place between the doughnut shop and the 7-11?" said Mr. Lieber, whose favorite strip-mall spot is an Italian place in Marina del Rey called Alejo's, which is famous for its shrimp pasta. "You feel like you have a neighborhood secret. Then you give it to the people you like, and keep it from those you don't."
The result of this cult of underground cool is that the dingiest, most unassuming restaurants often have long lines to get in, and the person at the next plastic-topped table is just as likely to be Christina Applegate as a newly arrived immigrant (not to mention a struggling student or actor drawn by the rock-bottom prices).
True food fans will seek out those little-known places frequented by locals, whose presence both attests to the authenticity of the cuisine and provides a fashionably anti-hip atmosphere. Such is the scene at Palms Thai in Hollywood, for example, where an Asian Elvis impersonator, with jeweled belts and mutton-chop sideburns, sings karaoke while Thai families shovel down tom kha gai at long banquet tables. 
The smattering of 20-somethings in fierce footwear are willing to wait an hour for a table so that they can revel in the ironic obscurity of it all.
"There's the complete cool quotient of going to those places," said Alex Tse, 26, a screenwriter. (Favored place: Mario's Peruvian.) "When you go to a place that's kind of ghetto, it's like you're part of a secret club -- you're really down, you know where the joints are."
Strip mall pilgrimages, however, are, as much about the food as the atmosphere, or lack thereof. Occasionally, meals can even be of high quality. The wildly popular Mexican restaurant Alegria in Silverlake, for example, is not popular because of its colorfully funky decor. (Although the owners have painted the walls and hung folk art, they have not bothered to fix the linoleum, remove the chipped counter or buy matching chairs.) 
Instead, it is the menu of inventive and delicate dishes like Budin Moctezuma, a savory tortilla-based lasagna, and perfectly grilled tiger shrimp sopes that lures diners like the actress Patricia Clarkson, who won an Emmy for her portrayal of Aunt Sarah on "Six Feet Under." 
Most strip mall meccas have perfected one hearty ethnic dish, which inspires fanatically devoted followers. There's Zankou's chicken; at Mario's Peruvian it is saltado de mariscos, a curiously addictive concoction of shrimp and squid sauteed with tomatoes and French fries. At Versailles, a Cuban chain, it is crispy garlic chicken with onions and plantains.
"That's what a makes a hole in the wall worth going to -- it has something you can't get anywhere else," Mr. Miano said. "Chicken at Falcon" -- a current It spot on Sunset Boulevard -- "can taste just like chicken at Spago, dress it up any way you want. But what you get at a strip mall is something unique."
Unheralded sushi restaurants inspire particular fanaticism. Many locals argue that the best sushi in Los Angeles is not at the renowned restaurants with celebrity chefs and designer lighting but at bare-bones strip-mall places like Sushi Ike or Hirozen. Cast members of the television show "24," for example, regularly stand patiently in line for a table. 
Devotion to these restaurants may simply be a matter of thrifty economics: with strip-mall sushi, after all, your money is going mainly for fresh fish. 
Occasionally, a popular strip-mall restaurant misinterprets its success and upgrades to a more stylish address. That was the case with Ita-Cho, a restaurant that served Japanese appetizers like sweet eggplant and lotus root for years before it outgrew its dingy and diminutive space. 
Now, Ita-Cho actually offers both interior decor and valet parking: which, in turn, deters former regulars like Nicole Barnette, 30, a director, who frequented the restaurant because of everything it was not.
"I loved Ita-Cho for years," Ms. Barnette said. "When it moved, it lost the charm of being 'that great place in the minimall on Highland.' It was way too hip."

GRAPHIC: Photos: FOR THOSE IN THE KNOW -- Looking for Alegria, a Mexican restaurant in Los Angeles? Just head for the nail salon at this shopping center, top, on Sunset Boulevard. The tom kha gai soup at Palm Thai, above left, in Hollywood is popular with Thai families and cineastes alike. Camarones al Ajillo, center, is served at Versailles, a Cuban restaurant. Fans of Sushi Ike stand in line for dishes like manila clam miso soup, left. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); YOU NEED A CAR FOR THIS -- At Los Angeles's strip malls, diners can find Kavee Thongpricha swiveling his hips at Palms Thai, top left, and halibut, salmon, crab and sea urchin at Sushi Ike, top right. Far left, it's hard to miss the signs for Versailles on La Cienega Boulevard. Mario's, left, serves Peruvian dishes like shrimp and squid sauteed with tomatoes, below left. At Alegria, tiger shrimp, red peppers and avocado slices smother a corncake, below.; SONG-WORTHY -- Zankou Chicken, on Sunset Boulevard, inspired Beck to write about it. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (86%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO STORES (73%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (73%); PLASTIC LAMINATES (72%); REFUGEES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%) Restaurants; Immigration and Refugees; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Janelle Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



471 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Self-Help 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 It's fine to chastise the industrial world for "rigging" the world trade system in favor of its manufacturing products (editorial, "Harvesting Poverty" series, Aug. 15). 
Yet one should not exonerate the developing world from its shared culpability in undermining an open trading system. 
 According to International Monetary Fund statistics, many developing countries have, on average, tariffs on imported industrial products three to four times as high as those of developed countries. Even in agriculture and textiles, applied tariffs stand at 18 and 21 percent, respectively. In contrast, industrial-country tariffs on textiles are a mere 8 percent.
In short, agreements to lower tariffs during the "development round" of the World Trade Organization are not solely opportunities for rich countries to help poor countries. They are also opportunities for poor countries to help themselves.

PAUL POAST
Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 15, 2003

The writer is a senior lecturer in economics, Ohio State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Paul Poast

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



472 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Profits Up at Home Depot, but Saks Loss Widens 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Home Depot Inc., the home improvement chain, posted a 9.9 percent increase in second-quarter profit yesterday, but its shares fell because sales at older stores rebounded less than some investors expected. Saks Inc. reported a wider second-quarter loss.
 Earnings at Home Depot climbed as new products, including John Deere lawn tractors, helped revenue. Sales of stores open at least a year rose 2.2 percent, less than the 3 percent expected by some shareholders after a rival, Lowe's Companies, exceeded sales forecasts on Monday. Home Depot left its profit forecast for the year unchanged. 
 A strong housing market and increased advertising helped Home Depot increase sales at existing stores for the first time in a year, Robert Nardelli, the chief executive, said on a conference call.
Net income rose to $1.3 billion, or 56 cents a share, from $1.18 billion, or 50 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales in the quarter ended Aug. 3 climbed 11 percent, to $18 billion.
Home Depot reiterated that it expects sales for the year to rise as much as 12 percent and earnings to increase as much as 14 percent. Earnings in the latest quarter were 2 cents higher than analysts' forecasts, according to Thomson First Call.
Shares of Home Depot, based in Atlanta, fell $1.74, to $32.16. 
Saks Inc., owner of Saks Fifth Avenue and regional department stores, said its loss widened as it offered discounts to fight off low-price competitors, squeezing profit margins.
The loss was $25.8 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with a loss of $20.4 million, or 14 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Sales in the period ended Aug. 2 were little changed at $1.24 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year fell less than 1 percent.
Same-store sales have declined in all but two months over the last year as shoppers trimmed spending because of concerns about jobs and the economy. Profit margins shrank last quarter as the Saks Inc. department stores, which include Proffitt's and Younkers, had to cut prices to keep shoppers from going to discounters and retailers like Kohl's.
Sales at Saks Fifth Avenue stores open at least a year rose 1 percent as it sold more handbags and accessories after expanding the areas in its New York store that sell those items. Sales at existing department stores fell 1.7 percent.
Shares of Saks, based in Birmingham, Ala., fell 12 cents, to $12.13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (54%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: SAKS INC (97%); HOME DEPOT INC (95%); LOWE'S COS INC (84%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC (HD) 

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (97%); HD (NYSE) (95%); LOW (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%) SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS; 

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) ALABAMA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



473 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR DROPS. The dollar fell against the yen after an industry report showed consumer confidence unexpectedly fell this month. In New York, the dollar settled at 118.40 yen, down from 119.49 on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since March 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



474 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
One-TenantBuildings Are Popular Investments

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Earlier this month, Commercial Net Lease Realty, a publicly traded real estate investment trust based in Orlando, Fla., acquired WorldCom's headquarters in Arlington, Va., in a bankruptcy auction. The purchase price was more than $142 million, and the buyer agreed to spend another $28.9 million on improvements. The total expenditures will be about $68 million more than WorldCom, now known as MCI, had tentatively accepted from Tishman Speyer Properties only a year earlier.
 What drove up the price for the two-building complex was the decision by the federal Transportation Security Administration to lease all of the buildings' 500,000 square feet. With the approval of the court handling WorldCom's bankruptcy proceedings, Tishman Speyer withdrew its offer and the complex was auctioned off. 
 Gary M. Ralston, the president of Commercial Net Lease Realty, which until now has specialized in retail properties, said that having a long-term tenant like the Transportation Security Administration was worth the steep price. "This is the United States of America," he said. "You don't get any better than that." 
In recent years, competition for buildings leased to single tenants has heated up as investors fleeing the stock market have sought safer havens for their money and many corporations have been persuaded to sell their buildings and lease them back. With rising unemployment and an average nationwide office vacancy rate of 16.5 percent, buildings with long-term high-quality tenants have become more appealing, both to publicly traded investment companies and private individuals.
According to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company, $2.7 billion in so-called single-tenant property valued at $5 million or more changed hands in the second quarter of this year, an increase of 40 percent over the sales volume of the second quarter of 2001.
In the largest deal last quarter, a German-financed real estate fund, Jamestown, paid $297 million for 1745 Broadway, near 56th Street, a new Midtown building with 645,000 square feet of offices that are fully leased for 15 years to the publishing company Random House, a subsidiary of Bertelsmann. (The deal did not include the building's 25 floors of residential condominiums.) 
And many more single-tenant properties with long-term leases are waiting to be tapped, said Mr. Ralston, whose company owns $1 billion in property. "This is possibly the largest undiscovered niche in real estate today," he said.
But more players are entering the field, many of them offshoots of established real estate companies. Among the newest entries are Crown Capital Partners, a new fund based in Beverly Hills, Calif., established by Crown Realty and Development, a private company that focuses on Southern California, and a $425 million fund to acquire industrial properties in the United States created by First Industrial Realty Trust of Chicago in partnership with Kuwait Finance House. 
Some REIT's focus on specific segments of the single-tenant market -- from movie megaplexes (Entertainment Properties Trust of Kansas City, Mo.), to automobile dealerships (Capital Automotive REIT of McLean, Va.) and even to prisons leased to government correctional departments and private operators (Correctional Properties Trust). A new REIT, American Financial Realty Trust of Jenkintown, Pa., buys real estate portfolios from financial institutions, including bank branches.
These days, the busiest buyer of single-tenant properties is Wells Real Estate Investment Trust of Atlanta. Wells, a fast-growing public REIT whose shares are not traded on any exchange but are sold through securities brokers, bought $1.4 billion of office and industrial properties last year, about three-quarters of them leased to a single blue-chip tenant, the chief investment officer, David Steinwedell, said. Recently, his company bought four buildings with a total of 230,597 square feet that are fully occupied by Lockeed Martin, reflecting the REIT's strategy of focusing on creditworthy tenants. 
"A lot of other companies start with the real estate first," Mr. Steinwedell said. "They fall in love with the real estate and hope that works."
For U.S. Restaurant Properties, a Dallas real estate investment trust that specializes in fast-food and family restaurants, however, the brand name, the historical performance of the location and the intrinsic value "are better predictors of the value of the asset" than the franchisee's creditworthiness, the chief operating officer, Harry O. Davis, said. 
"We're talking about a 20-to-40-year relationship," he said. "It's very difficult to predict what's going to happen to a company financially."
The market for single-tenant properties is so strong that many properties are sold with a few phone calls, said Robert White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics. "Demand is stronger than supply." 
For that reason, companies that invest in single-tenant properties are also actively engaged in encouraging corporations to divest themselves of real estate in order to acquire capital to expand their business. 
"In many cases," said Glen Esnard, a senior managing director at CB Richard Ellis, "if they look at their return on investment capital, they do better if they open another store than if they own the real estate for that store." Chain pharmacies generally would prefer to lease their stores, but some of the biggest national retailers like Wal-Mart and Target insist on owning their real estate and maintaining control. 
Much of the demand for single-tenant buildings is being fueled by investors seeking to postpone capital-gains taxes under the Internal Revenue Service's 1031 tax-deferred exchange rule, said James E. Stifel, the chief investment officer for the Benenson Capital Company, a New York concern that has focused on this sector for decades. This rule permits an investors to free themselves of the responsibilities of managing a small apartment building in exchange for buying, say, a store leased to a chain pharmacy. Typically, the pharmacy will assume the burden of maintaining the property, leaving the owner little to do beside cash the monthly check.
Bernard J. Haddigan, the managing director in charge of retail operations for Marcus & Millichap, said that for many investors, buying a free-standing Circuit City or CVS store is like owning a bond, only at a better rate of return.
But, of course, no real estate investment is without its risks. Not long before Arthur Andersen went out of business, Wells bought a 157,700-square-foot office building in Sarasota, Fla., leased to the accounting firm. Two-thirds of the space remains unoccupied.
Few people expect the single-tenant boom to maintain its current intensity as interest rates rise. "We're at the high end of our cycle right now," said Randy Blankstein, the president of the Boulder Group, a brokerage company in Northbrook, Ill., that specializes in single-tenant properties. "It's likely to taper off in the future." He said that the slow pace of new development would also affect the market.
T. Wilson Eglin, the chief executive of Lexington Corporate Properties Trust, a publicly traded real estate investment trust based in New York, said the uncertainty was putting more properties on the market. "Our acquisition pipeline has gotten much more active in the last few weeks," he said. 
Lexington recently signed a deal to build a 770,000-square-foot distribution center in Jackson, Tenn., for Kirkland, a national retailer. Kirkland will lease the property from Lexington for 15 years.
Inevitably, Mr. Esnard said, prices will go down as capital becomes more costly and other investments become more attractive. "The only issue is," he said, "will sellers move with the market so that there's no slowdown in velocity?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former headquarters of WorldCom in Arlington, Va., which will be leased by the Transportation Security Administration. In recent years, competition for buildings leased to single tenants has heated up. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) Graph: "Growth Spurt"Sales of commercial properties with one tenant have picked up over the last two years. Graph tracks sales of commercial properties with one tenant since 2000.(Source by Real Capital Analytics) Graph: "Data Update"Index of brokerage fees paid, not seasonally adjusted, through July. Graph tracks commercial sales and commercial leasing since 2000.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); PUBLISHING (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (50%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); NATIONAL RETAIL PROPERTIES INC (85%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); NNN (NYSE) (85%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); FR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



475 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Dutchess County, N.Y.; 
New Hotels on Hudson Valley Landscape

BYLINE:  By SANA SIWOLOP

DATELINE: FISHKILL, N.Y., Aug. 14 

 BODY:
Developers are forging ahead with plans to build at least six new hotels in Dutchess County in an effort that local officials and real estate executives say is unusually active and that could cause significant changes to the county's lodging landscape.
 "We're amazed at all the hotels that are coming here," said Gordon S. Rutherfurd, the director of business attraction for Dutchess County's Economic Development Corporation, a magnet of sorts for the county in the Hudson River Valley of New York State. 
 While hotel demand is generally down in many parts of the country, it is growing in Dutchess County, local officials say. Karen J. Woods, executive director of the Dutchess County Tourism Promotion Agency, said the county's revenue from the hotel occupancy tax rose more than 7 percent in 2002, to $1.43 million, from $1.33 million in 2001. 
According to Ms. Woods, 45 percent of the visitors to Dutchess County are business travelers. Of the leisure travelers, many are coming because of major new attractions, like Dia:Beacon, the three-month-old contemporary arts museum.
"It's one of the strongest hotel markets that I've seen in the past two and a half years," said Isabel Brandt, a hospitality consultant based in St. Louis.
Overnight travelers to Dutchess County now commonly choose between small inns and bed-and-breakfast establishments, on the one hand, and the chain hotels that blanket well-traveled highway intersections like Exit 13 of Interstate 84 in Fishkill. 
Exit 13, where the Interstate meets the busy Route 9, is already home to about a third of the 2,629 hotel rooms in Dutchess County, thanks largely to the presence of large companies like I.B.M. and the Gap, which have nearby manufacturing or distribution operations.
In about two months, there is to be another hotel at the intersection: a 104-room Extended Stay America lodging, part of a chain of more than 400 hotels with headquarters in Spartanburg, S.C. 
Accommodations are less abundant elsewhere in the county. "It's hard to get a room around here," said Laura E. Wojtowicz, director of planning for the town of Poughkeepsie, which includes the city of the same name. Ms. Wojtowicz said the town had approved plans for two new hotels along Route 9: a 144-room Hilton Garden Inn and a 128-room Marriott Residence Inn.
The Marriott, which is expected to be completed next spring, will be next to I.B.M.'s huge Poughkeepsie plant as well as a 30,000-square-foot retail plaza that is being built by the TC Development Corporation of Poughkeepsie. 
According to David S. Kaminski, the president, TC Development, after a market study two years ago, decided that the area near I.B.M. needed an extended-stay hotel, both because of a growing number of companies doing business with I.B.M. and because I.B.M.'s Poughkeepsie installation serves as a major center for training as well as research and development. In June, Mr. Kaminski's company sold part of the land it owned near the plant to the True North Hotel Group of Overland Park, Kan., a hotel operations and management company that will own the new Marriott. 
Elsewhere in the county, the scarcity of hotel rooms is spurring others into action. In Beacon, Foss Group Beacon, a development company, signed an agreement last week with Scenic Hudson, an environmental group, to develop a 160,000-square-foot mixed-use project on the waterfront, to be called Long Dock Beacon. As part of its first phase, it is to include construction of a 90-room "eco-friendly" hotel with conference space and a spa, according to Matthew D. Rudikoff, a partner at Foss Group Beacon. 
A similar project is being planned for the village of Tivoli in northern Dutchess County. Stephen Yarabek, a local landscape architect, said he was working with RJL Development of Rhinebeck to secure approval from the village to build a high-end hotel and conference center on 14 acres of land owned by the Kaatsbaan International Dance Center, a nonprofit group that provides housing to dancers and dance-related artists. Mr. Yarabek said that if the proposed development at Kaatsbaan is approved, it may eventually include up to 80 hotel rooms, restaurants, shops and a large spa.
In the city of Poughkeepsie, where an overhaul of part of the waterfront has received preliminary approval, another developer has plans to cater to more than just overnight travelers. 
Joseph Bonura Jr., a partner at Poughkeepsie Landing L.L.C., based in New Windsor, N.Y., said he expected to build a 68-room luxury hotel, with suites making up about half the units. The hotel would generate most of its business from the sizable conference and banquet building that is to be attached to it. 
"We see a huge demand in this area for a hotel that is near the water, and one that offers banquet facilities," Mr. Bonura said.
As evidence of the demand, he pointed to the nearby Poughkeepsie Grand Hotel, where he is a manager, and which is co-owned by his father, Joseph Bonura Sr. and Cosimo DiBrizzi, a local restaurateur. "When we started doing weddings at the Poughkeepsie Grand in 1994, we did 28 of them," Mr. Bonura said. "In 2003, we're going to do 208." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Extended Stay America hotel under construction near Exit 13 of Interstate 84 in Fishkill, N.Y. Plans call for a Hilton Garden Inn, a Marriott Residence Inn and others, meeting some demand and adding tax revenue. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COUNTIES (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (79%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TOURISM (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT 

COMPANY: RESIDENCE INN (58%); EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (52%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



476 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: No Red Barn, but That's a Farm in Red Hook; 
Two Acres, No Mule, but an Agricultural Education for Urban Teenagers

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
In the middle of a large, empty playground, just down the street from a strip of engineering businesses and industrial parts manufacturers in Red Hook, Brooklyn, a farm is beginning to take shape on top of the buckling pavement. It is not yet much to look at: just a few raised beds amid the weeds sprouting between the cracks in the ground.
 But the farmers -- a group of teenagers organized by a nonprofit group called Added Value -- have already planted baby lettuce and late-season greens, which they will sell later at the Red Hook Farmers' Market and to neighborhood restaurants and shops, or donate to food pantries and soup kitchens. Through the program, now in its third year, the students have been planting and harvesting Japanese eggplant, pattypan squash and sugar-snap peas on a quarter-acre in Far Rockaway, Queens, and at a smaller garden on Wolcott Street in Red Hook. 
 But the playground, until recently populated mainly by men flying toy helicopters, the occasional resident practicing tai chi and people using drugs, offered the program space to realize even greater ambitions. The lot, nearly two acres bounded by Sigourney, Otsego, Halleck and Columbia Streets, will be home to one of the largest farms in the city and will allow the group to expand into composting, hydroponics and even fish farming. 
The spot, near a huge public housing complex, industrial warehouses and a car pound, is far from bucolic, though it is maintained by the Parks Department. But it was enough to bring a program co-director, Ian Marvy, 30, to tears when he saw it about two years ago.
Michael Hurwitz, 30, the other program director, said Mr. Marvy told him, "Oh, my God, this is our future."
Near the end of last week, even as the city sputtered through the paroxysms of the blackout, that future was becoming present. One bed, measuring 8 feet by 128 feet and 10 inches high, had already been built and a few teenagers were filling it with soil from a huge pile in a corner. A few other teenagers were fighting off biting flies to work with John Ameroso, an educator for Cornell Cooperative Extension who is a consultant to the project, on building a second bed. Denia Cuello, 14, was dancing across a 2-by-8 piece of lumber placed over the soil to compact it. The group is behind schedule in filling field green and herb orders for 360, a nearby French bistro, Mr. Marvy said, so they cannot wait for gravity to compact the soil.
"I am not going to be a farmer when I grow up," said Denia, who lives in the nearby Red Hook Houses, bounding off the bed. "They got to do so many things." Even so, she said, she has found that she likes to build things, and she especially likes earning her own money for clothes and sneakers. "When I need something, I don't have to ask my mother." 
The program pays participants, who work 16 hours a week, $250 or $350 a month, depending on seniority.
Although Mr. Hurwitz and Mr. Marvy, who met while working at the Red Hook Youth Court, started the program in part to create job opportunities for low-income city teenagers, their farming efforts are about much more, they say. The city has a rich tradition in community gardening, but Mr. Marvy and Mr. Hurwitz were quick to distinguish their program as having its roots in the urban agriculture movement, which, they say, is different.
Urban agriculture focuses on growing food for a variety of reasons. For Mr. Hurwitz and Mr. Marvy, those reasons are to provide affordable, high-quality food to low-income areas that do not have regular access to items like ruby chard or red mustard. The program also focuses on teaching job skills, communication and leadership to young people.
"We wanted to create entrepreneurial opportunities for kids," said Mr. Hurwitz, who has a background in social work. "Every drug dealer I ever worked with was a better entrepreneur than I am."
Mr. Marvy and Mr. Hurwitz plan to build 30 beds, and turn half of them over to neighborhood schools, centers for the elderly and Just Food, another nonprofit group that promotes urban farming. There are plans for a greenhouse so they can grow year-round, including plants for the city's parks. The two men also plan to start a vermiculture program, using worms to help turn waste into worm castings, a high-quality growing material that they can package and sell.
For the teenagers, the program offers, at first, a job. Jose Felix, 18, has been in the program since it began. "It's good to get paid and learn a lot at the same time," he said. "It's better than working in a fast-food job where you're not learning very much and you're not getting paid enough."
But taking part in the program has also given him other opportunities. Recently, he traveled to Costa Rica for a youth conference, which he said opened his eyes to the advantages he has in the United States.
"The youth in Costa Rica were basically doing things their parents were supposed to be doing," he said, adding that the boys had jobs at 14 and young girls were having babies. "You can just do so much more here."
Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner, said he had approved the project because it was an adaptive reuse of a site that was being used. "And it's a community-oriented, environmentally appropriate project with economic development possibilities."
It involves plants, young people and environmental education, making it a perfect Parks Department project, Mr. Benepe said.
But even as urban agriculture should be encouraged, he said, it seems unlikely to spread far and wide in the city because land is so valuable and there are so many pressures to develop the little that is vacant. Much of what exists are demonstration farms with historic backgrounds, like the Queens County Farm Museum, or community vegetable plots.
At the same time, Mr. Benepe said, it was especially critical in the city to strengthen the connection between people and the food they eat.
"Most of us are so removed from agriculture, from where food comes from," he said, "just having people understand that vegetables grow on vines or out of shrubs and that it's possible to grow tasty vegetables without pesticides or herbicides" is important.
Then, too, the city has a history of children's farm gardens, like one that existed at the turn of the 20th century in DeWitt Clinton Park in Hell's Kitchen. There, Mr. Benepe said, in what was not considered one of the city's finer neighborhoods, children learned about agriculture and economics. "That's a predecessor of what's going to be happening here."
Last week, all that was very much in evidence. Mr. Marvy was describing his vision of a place where young people could learn math and science through farming, while eight of the participants were bustling about in the heat, readying beds, watering plants and ferrying dirt.
As Jose passed a bed where Nastassia Gore, 14, had been planting baby greens, he asked Mr. Hurwitz if they were mizuna, a feathery Asian green.
They were not, but were green mustard, which is related.
"I am thoroughly impressed that you knew that it was a cousin of a mizuna plant," Mr. Hurwitz said. Jose shrugged and moved on.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Added Value's farm program for city teenagers is planning to build 30 raised plant beds in Brooklyn. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B7); Teenagers in a farming program in Brooklyn grow vegetables for restaurants, shops, food pantries and soup kitchens. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CITIES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); AQUACULTURE (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (50%) Agriculture; Children and Youth; Entrepreneurship

ORGANIZATION: Added Value (Nonprofit Group)

PERSON: Diane Cardwell; Michael Hurwitz; Ian Marvy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



477 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Nasdaq at 16-Month High on Upbeat Technology Outlook

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, with the Nasdaq composite index closing at its highest point in 16 months as encouraging news from technology companies like Broadcom fanned hopes that an economic rebound is under way.
 The Dow Jones industrial average also managed to scrape out a new 14-month high, despite a 5 percent decline in shares of Home Depot. 
 Broadcom's stock surged 11 percent after it bumped up its forecast for the current quarter, and Flextronics International shares rose 10 percent after it left its earnings outlook unchanged, but noted improving business in July and a relatively strong August.
"A number of companies reporting all had reasonably positive things to say," said Rick Meckler, the president of LibertyView Capital Management. 
"Investors are guessing that the recovery may be coming soon," he added. "Technology spending has been deferred for so long that any hint of an upturn causes people to head back into chip stocks and others like that."
Shares of computer memory makers like Micron Technology were helped after Gartner Dataquest, a technology researcher, predicted that the global computer memory market would begin to recover from a downturn this year, albeit because of a lack of supply, not stronger demand.
After the close, the technology bellwether Hewlett-Packard reported quarterly profits and revenue that fell short of analysts' forecasts. Its shares declined as much as 11 percent in after-hours trading, to $19.75. They declined 2 cents, to $22.11, at the close of regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 21.62 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 1,761.11, its highest close since April 2002.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 16.45 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,428.90, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.61 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,002.35.
Broadcom, which said its revenue for the current quarter would increase about 10 percent from the previous quarter, rose $2.50, to $25.35.
Flextronics, a top contract manufacturer of technology products, surged $1.19, to $12.84.
Micron Technology, among the most actively traded stocks on the New York Stock Exchange, rose $1.10, or 9 percent, to $13.86. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index jumped 2.5 percent.
The market received some support from a government report that showed housing starts at a 17-year high in July, and investors largely looked past a report from the University of Michigan indicating that consumer sentiment slipped unexpectedly in August.
News that an explosion in a bus in West Jerusalem killed at least 18 people and wounded many others briefly knocked the market back down. Earlier yesterday, a truck bomb devastated the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, killing the U.N. special envoy to Iraq and at least 16 others, officials said.
Home Depot said its second-quarter earnings rose 10 percent and its sales at stores open at least a year turned positive for the first time in a year. But its results lagged those of Lowe's. Shares of Home Depot fell $1.74, or 5 percent, to $32.16.
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as the attacks in Iraq and Israel put traders on the defensive and led to buying of safe-haven government debt.
The 10-year Treasury note gained 26/32, to a price of 99 3/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.36 percent from 4.47 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 11 6/32, to 101 30/32. The bond's yield declined to 5.24 percent from 5.35 percent on Monday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.927
High Rate: 0.945
Coupon Yield: 0.955
Low Rate: 0.900
Median Rate: 0.935
Total applied for: $49,149,713
Accepted: $21,106,233
Noncompetitive: $43,827

The four-week bills mature Sept. 18.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BOMBINGS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (58%); FLEXTRONICS INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%)

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (58%); FLEX (NASDAQ) (57%); MU (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



478 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: How America Created a Terrorist Haven 

BYLINE:  By Jessica Stern; Jessica Stern, a lecturer at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, is author of "Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill."

 BODY:
Yesterday's bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad was the latest evidence that America has taken a country that was not a terrorist threat and turned it into one.
 Of course, we should be glad that the Iraq war was swifter than even its proponents had expected, and that a vicious tyrant was removed from power. But the aftermath has been another story. America has created -- not through malevolence but through negligence -- precisely the situation the Bush administration has described as a breeding ground for terrorists: a state unable to control its borders or provide for its citizens' rudimentary needs. 
 As the administration made clear in its national security strategy released last September, weak states are as threatening to American security as strong ones. Yet its inability to get basic services and legitimate governments up and running in post-war Afghanistan and Iraq -- and its pursuant reluctance to see a connection between those failures and escalating anti-American violence -- leave one wondering if it read its own report. 
For example, the American commander in Iraq, Gen. John Abizaid, has described the almost daily attacks on his troops as guerrilla campaigns carried out by Baathist remnants with little public support. Yet an increasing number of Iraqis disagree: they believe that the attacks are being carried out by organized forces -- motivated by nationalism, Islam and revenge -- that feed off public unhappiness. 
According to a survey this month by the Iraq Center for Research and Strategic Studies, nearly half of the Iraqis polled attribute the violence to provocation by American forces or resistance to the occupation (even more worrisome, the Arabic word for "resistance" used in the poll implies a certain amount of sympathy for the perpetrators). In the towns of Ramadi and Falluja, where many of the recent attacks have taken place, nearly 90 percent of respondents attributed the attacks to these causes.
Why would ordinary Iraqis not rush to condemn violence against the soldiers who liberated them from Saddam Hussein? Mustapha Alani, an Iraqi scholar with the Royal United Services Institute in London, gave me a possible explanation: even in the darkest days of the Iran-Iraq war, most Iraqis (other than Kurds and Marsh Arabs) did not have to worry about personal security. They could not speak their minds, but they could count on electricity, water and telephone service for at least part of the day. Today they fear being attacked in their bedrooms; power, water and telephones are routinely unavailable. As Mr. Alani put it, Iraqis today could could care less about democracy, they just want assurance that their daughters won't be raped or their sons kidnapped en route to the grocery store. 
Blaming the violence on isolated Baath loyalists was perhaps more plausible when the violence was centered in the Sunni heartland. But the recent riots in the southern Shiite city of Basra, and the sabotage of a major oil pipeline in the Kurdish north, make clear that other regions may not be peaceable indefinitely.
Shiites widely supported the operation to remove Saddam Hussein, but they are furious about what they see as American incompetence since the war. This set the stage for religious extremists. Moktada al-Sadr, a vitriolic cleric in Basra, says he has recruited a 5,000-man Shiite army to take on the occupiers. In public he is urging his followers to engage in "peaceful" resistance, but some have told Western reporters that they are prepared to carry out "martyrdom operations" if and when they receive orders to do so.
In addition, in the run-up to the war, most Iraqis viewed the foreign volunteers who were rushing in to fight against America as troublemakers, and Saddam Hussein's forces reportedly killed many of them. Today, according to Mr. Alani, these foreigners are increasingly welcomed by the public, especially in the former Baathist strongholds north of Baghdad. 
As bad as the situation inside Iraq may be, the effect that the war has had on terrorist recruitment around the globe may be even more worrisome. Even before the coalition troops invaded, a senior United Statescounterterrorism official told reporters that "an American invasion of Iraq is already being used as a recruitment tool by Al Qaeda and other groups." Intelligence officials in the United States, Europe and Africa say that the recruits they are seeing now are younger than in the past. Television images of American soldiers and tanks in Baghdad are deeply humiliating to Muslims, even those who didn't like Saddam Hussein, explained Saad al-Faqih, head of Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, a Saudi dissident group in London. He told me that some 3,000 young Saudis have entered Iraq in recent months, and called the war "a gift to Osama bin Laden." 
Hassan Nasrallah, head of the Lebanese Shiite group Hezbollah, told a crowd of 150,000 in a March religious observance that the United States was trying to create a "tragedy for humanity and to spread chaos in the world" and predicted that the people of Iraq and the region would "welcome American troops with rifles, blood, arms, martyrdom." 
The occupation has given disparate groups from various countries a common battlefield on which to fight a common enemy. Hamid Mir, a biographer of Osama bin Laden, has been traveling in Iraq and told me that Hezbollah has greatly stepped up its activities not only in Shiite regions but also in Baghdad. 
Most ominously, Al Qaeda's influence may be growing. It has been linked to attacks as far apart as Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Morocco. One suspect in yesterday's attack is Ansar al-Islam, a Qaeda offshoot whose camps in Northern Iraq were destroyed early in the war. In recent weeks American officials acknowledged that members of the group had slipped into Iraq from Iran, had begun organizing in Baghdad and were suspected of plotting bombings, including the Aug. 7 attack on the Jordanian Embassy. In addition, Mr. Mir reported that Al Qaeda was carving out new training grounds in the border region between Iraq and Syria. 
While there is no single root cause of terrorism, my interviews with terrorists over the past five years suggest that alienation, perceived humiliation and lack of political and economic opportunities make young men susceptible to extremism. It can evolve easily into violence when government institutions are weak and there is money available to pay for a holy war. America is unlikely to win the hearts and minds of committed terrorists. After some time on the job, it is hard for them to imagine another life. Several described jihad to me as being "addictive."
Thus the best way to fight them is to ensure that they are rejected by the broader population. Terrorists and guerrillas rely on getting at least some popular support. America's task will be to restore public safety in Iraq and put in place effective governing institutions that are run by Iraqis. It would also help if we involved more troops from other countries, to make clear that the war wasn't an American plot to steal Iraq's oil and denigrate Islam, as the extremists argue.
The goal of creating a better Iraq is a noble one, but a first step will be making sure that ordinary Iraqis find America's ideals and assistance more appealing than Al Qaeda's.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Warren Linn) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); RIOTS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); RELIGION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



479 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: THE CALIFORNIA RECALL; 
Excerpts From Speech by Governor of California About the Recall Election

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech yesterday by Gov. Gray Davis of California about the recall effort, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is online at nytimes.com/national.
 I know California is going through a difficult time and this is a challenging moment for all of us. I come here tonight to take responsibility, to set the record straight and to talk about our future. 
 Let's first talk about energy. I know many of you feel that I was too slow to act during the energy crisis. I got your message and I accept that criticism. I played the hand I was dealt as best I could. I inherited the energy deregulation scheme which put all of us at the mercy of the big energy producers. We got no help from the federal government. In fact, when I was fighting Enron and the other energy companies, these same companies were sitting down with Vice President Cheney to draft a national energy strategy. Recent federal investigations have proven that California was victimized by a massive fraud. Energy executives are on their way to jail. 
Three years ago, I refused to give in to the pressure to raise rates astronomically. Everyone I talked to said, "raise rates, raise rates, raise rates." I would not do it. And I also couldn't let our homes, our businesses or our schools go dark. So I went to work, bought power, built new plants, encouraged conservation from the good people of this state and encouraged the use of clean energy. My friends, last Friday 50 million Americans lost power for 29 hours. In California not a single light has gone out in the last two years. . . . 
Now let's talk about the budget. I'm not happy with the budget I signed recently. I said so then; I repeat that today. But it was the best we could do given the position of Republican legislators, who would not compromise and who wanted to strip away health insurance benefits from 400,000 children of working parents rather than increase taxes on the wealthiest Californians. 
But as everyone considers how we got in this situation, let me put our situation into perspective. The American economy has tanked. Over the last couple years it has shed three million jobs and gone from record surpluses to record deficits. Forty-six other states are facing similar problems. Yes, I could have been tougher in holding down spending when we had big surpluses. But let's be clear: Our increases on my watch went to education and health care, and I make no apology for that. When I took office, we ranked near the bottom in per-pupil spending -- 43rd to be specific. We are now 26th and we're making progress. In fact just last week, just last Friday, the superintendent of public instruction announced dramatic improvement in student test scores for the fifth year in a row. 
Let me just say that the thanks should go to teachers, parents, school board members, principals and all the hard-working people in education.
Let me tell you something else about the budget. In California the Constitution prohibits spending a dollar unless you get a two-thirds vote of the Legislature. So those spending increases I mentioned during the early part of my term -- health care and education -- those increases were supported by Democrats and Republicans in Sacramento. And one more point on the budget: Some Republicans accuse me of hiding the deficit. That is preposterous, my friends. In California state finances are a matter of public record. They're available to anyone who wants to see.
Now let's talk about the recall. This recall is bigger than California. What's happening here is part of an ongoing national effort to steal elections Republicans cannot win. It started with the impeachment of President Clinton when the Republicans could not beat him in 1996. It continued in Florida where they stopped the vote count, depriving thousands of Americans of the right to vote. This year they're trying to steal additional Congressional seats in Colorado and Texas, overturning legal redistricting plans.
Here in California the Republicans lost the governor's race last November. Now they're trying to use this recall to seize control of California just before the next presidential election. They spent $3 million to put this recall on the ballot. But you're going to have to spend $65 million of your hard-earned tax dollars to conduct that election. I'm sure you'll agree with me that money would be better spent educating our children.
Call me old fashioned -- and I am -- call me old fashioned, but I believe when an election is over the people have spoken and it's time to get to work and do the public's business. 
There are many reasons to be against this recall: it's expensive, it's undemocratic, it's a bad precedent and it almost certainly will breed more recalls. The end result will be more campaigning not less, more politics not less and less time to do the public's business. 
The Republicans behind this recall say they want you to oust me for past mistakes. My friends, they don't give a rip about past mistakes. This is all about control in the future, seizing back the governor's chair and believing with so many candidates running for office they can do it with just a handful of California voters. That's what this is about. 
For the next seven weeks my highest priority will be doing the job you elected me to do. But make no mistake, I am going to fight this recall and the right-wing forces behind it. You can take that to the bank. . . . 
I'm also proud to tell you I've signed some of the toughest environmental laws in America over the last five years, laws that clean up our air, clean up our water and protect our magnificent coastline. California has become a national leader again on the environment and I will never allow -- I will never allow California's strong environmental record to be reversed, not by a Republican, not by anyone. I'm going to fight to protect this environment.
The same is true for reproductive rights, privacy rights -- reproductive rights, privacy rights and civil rights. We've passed the toughest laws in the nation, bar none, on all three subjects.
And while the Bush administration spends its time peering into our bedrooms, our homes and our libraries, I have been working with Democratic legislators in Sacramento to pass the toughest financial privacy law in America. My friends, no one should look at your bank balances, your spending habits or your personal financial data unless you give them permission to do so. I will sign a bill this year that will protect your financial privacy whether I'm governor for another seven weeks or another three years.
Now let me speak about another issue that will be on the ballot. Proposition 54 -- Proposition 54 is another Republican effort to divide Californians over race. I'm going to fight this initiative and I'm going to fight every day to make equal opportunity a reality for every person living in this great state. 
Now the budget problems we've been dealing with need a long-term fix. I said I've signed the budget. I have. But we need a long-term fix. And I will soon appoint a distinguished commission of knowledgeable people to propose changes in our budget structure to avoid the wild fluctuations we've seen over the last four years and which we saw in the early '90s.
I also want to make this state better. I want to make it better to work and to do business, whether you're in the private sector, the public sector or the nonprofit world. Wherever you're working, you're experiencing skyrocketing increases in worker compensation rates and I pledge to you I will sign a bill this year that will stop those increases. There is much more that needs to be done in California. This election is about your future. I intend to fight for it and I need your help.
Now this is not going to shock you: I may not be the warmest TV personality in politics, but I am warming to this fight. And I will go all over this state, talk to all comers, answer all their questions and I might have one or two of my own to ask them. 
Now the Republicans say this recall is about ousting me for past problems, but, my friends, we're getting over our past problems. California did not go dark. I signed a budget. The schools are getting better and our economy will turn around. But this right-wing power grab is something we won't get over. It would do lasting damage to our state, our environment and the very fabric of our democracy. This is a fight worth making and I need your help. 
My friends, if you give me your help, I'll do everything in my power over the next three and a half years to represent everyone in this great state -- Democrats, Republicans and independents -- and to give our children the future they deserve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (87%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); ENERGY REGULATION (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); CHILDREN (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); RANKINGS (50%); TAX INCREASES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



480 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: WASHINGTON MEMO; 
Congress Prepares for a Beyond-the-Beltway Fight

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
As they move to strike an agreement on energy issues in thecoming weeks, members of Congress will be reminded anew that such fights often break more along state lines than party lines.
 Lawmakers of both stripes from oil-producing states think the rest of the nation fails to pull their weight. Southern and Western lawmakers do not want their cheaper power flowing to Northerners. Midwesterners are eager to promote the use of a corn-based gasoline additive; Californians and New Yorkers are not. 
 Though the maneuvering over energy legislation is taking on a more partisan tinge in the aftermath of the last week's blackout, those regional disputes help to explain why lawmakers have been unable to reach agreement on energy policy in the last two years.
"You have the Midwestern folks using the ethanol issue as an effort to prop up rural America," said Mark Hopkins, an official at the Alliance to Save Energy, which has been involved in the debate. "Down South, the Southern Company is dragging their feet on the transmission issue. In New England, they are very strong on efficiency issues."
Referring to the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, he added, "Then there is Alaska, where ANWR and the pipeline are bread and butter. Congress in these comprehensive bills tries to do this balancing act and they haven't been able to balance anything in the last two years."
The blackout has given a shove to the energy bill and Congress, under pressure to prevent future power failures, will try to hammer out a final plan and send it to President Bush as early as next month. 
Resolving those regional differences will not be easy. And they begin with an issue central to electricity transmission systems. 
Lawmakers in the South and West are balking at a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission plan to create multistate regional transmission groups. The lawmakers, as well as utilities and state regulators, contend their states have improved their transmission systems and they should not have to bail out other regions that have put off the work. 
Plus, they worry that the plan could reduce the incentive businesses have to relocate to states where power is cheap and more abundant.
"We don't want to export our low-cost power to other parts of the country," said Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of Idaho. "It is one of the advantages we have worked so long to build."
Such comments annoy lawmakers from the populous Northeast, who note that their states provide tax dollars that keep the rest of the nation running and pay for emergency help when rural regions are hit by severe weather or fires.
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, shot a letter to Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham this week, responding to what he termed an "anti-Northeast" attitude among the administration and some Republicans after comments by Mr. Abraham that grid improvements would have to be financed by urban electricity users.
"This blackout may have only left those in parts of the Northeast and Midwest in the dark, but it had consequences throughout the country," Mr. Lautenberg wrote.
Congress appears to be leaning toward a middle ground on the power transmission proposal, favoring enforceable new standards for utilities while postponing the more contentious part of the regulatory scheme.
The regional disputes run far beyond one issue, though. One of the sharpest exchanges this year about energy policy came between two top Senate Democrats, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, and Dianne Feinstein of California. 
Mr. Daschle, who faces re-election next year, is determined to enact a requirement that would double the use of corn-based ethanol in gasoline over the next decade. Ms. Feinstein and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, want to exempt their states, arguing that refineries far from the cornfields might be at an economic disadvantage.
"This ethanol mandate is poor public policy," Ms. Feinstein said during the floor fight, adding that it "actually achieves a transfer of wealth from all states to the Midwest corn states."
Corn states have a lot of influence in the Senate; efforts to change the ethanol rule were pushed aside.
The energy fight is also colored by the long-running feud over increased domestic oil production, which pits lawmakers of both parties from oil-producing states like Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma against those of both parties from tourism-dependent coastal states like Florida and California, which oppose drilling.
The superior numbers of the antidrilling forces have led to decades of restrictions on new offshore exploration along much of the nation's coast. Lawmakers allied with the oil industry regard the refusal as a slap at their own states and a resistance to contribute to domestic energy needs.
"No new drilling off the East Coast, no drilling off the West Coast, no drilling in the Rocky Mountains, but when the lights go out people start screaming," a Congressional aide who works on energy issues said.
That sentiment has spilled into the fight over drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as Republicans, a few Democrats and the Bush administration have worked to open up reserves there. But resistance to that idea has been bipartisan as well. Democrats in the Senate have only been able to block it with the help of moderate Republicans.
Some lawmakers say they believe the regional disputes will fade and the overall energy picture will come into sharper political focus because of the blackout, as the public clamors for assurances that their power supply is dependable. 
"We don't have that many oil wells in Boston," said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts. "And the virtues of corn for gas tanks is something we have to be educated on."
But, he said, when it comes to knowing that the wires into American homes must carry power for air-conditioners and ESPN, "every American is united on that issue." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); ETHANOL (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); FUEL ADDITIVES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%); WEATHER (60%); WILDLIFE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY (56%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



481 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: The Baghdad Bombing; 
A Mission Imperiled

 BODY:
Terrorists aim not just at inflicting death and devastation. They also hope to poison the emotional and political climate around their targets. Tragically, the truck bombers who blew up the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad yesterday have already succeeded on the first score, killing the chief U.N. representative in Iraq and at least 16 others, and disrupting desperately needed international relief efforts. They must not be allowed the second triumph, further deepening the psychological chasm between reconstruction efforts and Iraqi civilians. 
 The Bush administration has to commit sufficient additional resources, and, if necessary, additional troops, to prevent that. Iraqis need to see that Washington has the will and the means to get their country back on its feet. American soldiers cannot be left fearing so much for their own safety that they start treating all Iraqis as potential enemies. And international relief agencies must not be frightened away from what is now the most important American foreign policy endeavor. 
 Yesterday's attack, the worst in U.N. history, was another sign that surly, chaotic postwar Iraq is becoming a magnet for terrorists. That is yet another consequence of the Iraq war that the Bush administration failed to anticipate, like the uncontrolled postwar looting, the delays in restoring water and electricity, the ambushes of American soldiers and the sabotage of infrastructure. 
The upsurge of terrorism, which began earlier this month with the deadly bombing of Jordan's embassy in Baghdad, is all the more alarming because the list of potentialtargets seems almost limitless. As things now stand, any public building not fully surrounded by a fortified, patrolled concrete perimeter appears vulnerable.
So far, the identity of the terrorists, the resources available to them and their geographic reach all remain unknown. These attacks appear to reflect more than spontaneous local discontent or the rear-guard efforts of fugitive former Baathist officials. There have been reports of radical Islamists infiltrating into Iraq from Iran and Saudi Arabia.
What seems clear is that those carrying out the attacks are organized and seek to thwart relief and recovery efforts. They seem intent on fanning hostility to American occupation authorities by prolonging the misery of ordinary Iraqis. Targeting the U.N. is especially chilling because it conveys a message to international organizations that they are not safe. Washington cannot let this message sink in. 
To prevent that, the administration will have to radically rethink its approach to postwar Iraq. Unrealistically optimistic assumptions have led the White House to severely underestimate troop and spending requirements and wrongly dismiss the need for more international help through the U.N. 
More must be done to reestablish security for Iraqis, aid workers and American troops, without creating a bunker mentality that walls foreigners off from the Iraqi population. Washington needs to accelerate its efforts to restore vital services and normal economic life. The administration should also drop its ideological resistance to a larger U.N. role in Iraq -- and prevail on the U.N. to maintain its presence, despite the terrible bloodshed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



482 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: THE INVESTIGATION; 
Energy Dept. Will Take Control Of Investigation Into the Blackout

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ and ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The Department of Energy has agreed to lead a sweeping investigation to determine precisely how a huge swath of the nation's electrical system collapsed last week, draining power from tens of thousands of miles of high-voltage electrical lines, leaving millions in the dark and inflicting widespread damage on local economies from Detroit to New York.
 Energy Department officials said that the investigation would employ hundreds of experts from federal agencies, national laboratories and the organizations that control the flow of electricity on the nation's power grid, and would take responsibility for discovering an answer outside an industry organization that had been leading the initial inquiry. 
 "The electric transmission grid is quite possibly the most vital piece of infrastructure which we have," said the secretary of energy, Spencer Abraham, in Washington yesterday afternoon. "We owe ourselves an explanation of this incident and an assurance that steps will be taken to address the cause."
Mr. Abraham promised explicitly that the investigation would make no attempt to shield the electric power industry from responsibility for the blackout, the largest in the nation's history. But Mr. Abraham also made clear that he took a dim view of early speculation on the causes of the blackout. Some experts have pointed to failures in high-voltage transmission lines controlled by FirstEnergy Corporation, in Ohio, as the first of a cascade of failures in the catastrophe. 
"We have already seen many theories abound," Mr. Abraham said, adding that the evidence -- though still sketchy -- would be pursued no matter where it led. "There is no effort on our part at this point to hold back this investigation or hold back ultimately the findings that we come up with."
Mr. Abraham, a former senator from Michigan who once advocated dismantling the Department of Energy, is regarded as a solid conservative who favors free trade and dislikes environmental regulations, but also as someone who has occasionally challenged the Republican orthodoxy.
Several experts, including former Energy Department engineers and consultants to industry regulators, said yesterday that they had concluded that only human error could explain the hourlong sequence oftransmission-line short circuits in Ohio that preceded the blackout. They said one of two things had to have happened: either engineers overestimated the power-handling capacity of the lines or operators overestimated how much power could be shunted from one to the others when things started to go wrong.
Other energy experts described trends in the eastern grid over the last three years hinting at growing, and potentially dangerous, imbalances between the amount of power flowing in from plants and the amount used by customers.
Officials with the industry organization that had been leading the first investigative work, the North American Electric Reliability Council, applauded the federal inquiry, but they and others have made clear the dimensions of the task: investigators must knit together data that traces hours of voltages, electrical current and power output in increments of fractions of a second at hundreds of generators and substations sprinkled over half a dozen different regional grids.
"Their need to do this is completely understandable," said Ellen Vancko, a spokeswoman for the council. "This is an international event. It affected Canada, it affected the U.S. It's essential that the federal government take a leading role."
The decision by the department to lead the investigation was first reported by The Los Angeles Times.
Yesterday's announcement gave no firm time frame for the Energy Department's investigation. In 1996, a federal investigation of a blackout that affected four million people in the western United States took about two months to settle on a cause.
Mr. Abraham said that he planned to meet in Detroit today with Canada's minister of natural resources, Herb Dhaliwal, to discuss a plan for combining the two countries' investigative efforts.
The Energy Department's investigation will not have to begin from scratch. One of the agencies that will assist in the effort, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, has had staff members around the clock at a Midwestern nerve center for the grid, said Robert Gramlich, economic adviser to the reliability council's chairman, Pat Wood III.
The data that is already being collected at that nerve center, called the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, should -- when combined with information from other regional centers -- yield a complete record of the catastrophe, Mr. Gramlich said.
"It's not like we're searching for pieces in cornfields in Ohio," Mr. Gramlich said.
The Energy Department has already started to send its own investigators to the regional centers on missions to collect tremendous amounts of data. One of those investigators has already arrived at the New York Independent System Operator, which operates the grid in New York State, said Ken Klapp, a spokesman for that regional control center.
In that region alone, Mr. Klapp said, there are sensors in hundreds of generators and substations run by eight different utilities along 11,000 miles of high-voltage transmission line.
Despite the shift to the Energy Department, the reliability council headquarters in Princeton, N.J., will almost certainly remain a hub of the investigation. There, information from the regional centers is already being analyzed. Wall projectors are displaying ever-evolving spread sheets with parallel columns showing, moment by moment, what conditions were recorded in various locations around the power system across the continent.
The information can help determine how conditions vaulted around the system, said Donald M. Benjamin, vice president of the reliability council, in much the same way that scattered seismographs help geologists locate the epicenter of an earthquake.
Some experts have found evidence they say points to a troubling rise in errors in how power flow is balanced across the sprawling grid. One of the most important standards is aimed at maintaining a constant frequency in the waves of electricity pulsing through the system.
A recent analysis of the quality of the electrical flow in the eastern part of the grid showed a significant rise since 2000 in potentially destabilizing variations from the ideal frequency of 60 hertz, or cycles per second.
The size of such errors is considered an index of how well those operating the grid are balancing from moment to moment the amount of power being pumped into the system by plants and sucked out by customers, said Robert Blohm, an energy consultant and council adviser who did the study.
"When there is a divergence from 60, that means someone supplied too much or didn't take enough," Mr. Blohm said. If the frequency in the lines strays too far, power plants can be triggered to shut down to prevent their giant, high-revving turbines from starting to vibrate and possibly fly apart. 
It is not clear whether the general rise in the size of frequency errors relates to what happened last Thursday, experts said, but the trend has caught everyone's attention. 
Other experts on the grid said it was already beginning to be clear -- when the specific train of events last Thursday was closely examined -- that human error had to have played some role in the hour preceding the blackout. Short-circuited lines should have been manageable.
"That should not have resulted in any overload of any other piece of equipment on the system," said Howard F. Illian, a consultant who has worked for the reliability council.
Still, 26 minutes after the first line failed, another began to heat and sag until power jumped to a nearby tree, shorting out the line. 
"Either the rating on the line was incorrect or the line was overloaded," Mr. Illian said. "Either way there was some error made there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said, "We owe ourselves an explanation of this incident." (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A16) Chart: "Increased Grid Stress"An indicator of how well a grid is operating is the stability of the frequency at which it transmits energy -- 60 cycles per second, or 60 hertz, is the norm. Since 1999 the average deviation from that frequency has been increasing in the East toward the danger threshold: 18 thousandths of a hertz above the norm. If this continues, the possibility of blackouts could increase as well. Graph tracks monthly average deviation from ideal frequency in thousandths of a hertz since 1994. (Source by Robert Blohm, energy consultant and adviser to the North American Electric Reliability Council)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HISTORY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (91%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



483 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE SCENE; 
Amid Blood and Rubble, A Sense of Helplessness

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
Soon after Salim Lone, the spokesman for the special United Nations representative in Iraq, stumbled dazed and bleeding from the wreckage of the headquarters here, he learned that rescue teams were trying to get water to his boss, Sergio Vieira de Mello, trapped and wounded but still talking from beneath the rubble. 
 "Everybody said to me he needs water, so I assumed he was still alive," Mr. Lone said hours later, tears for his slain boss coursing periodically down his cheeks, the back of his shirt and his pants covered in dried blood. 
 "The team trying to reach him didn't get very far, though, because when they went toward his office, there was no more building there," he added. "There was nothing to do." 
Grief among Western officials here was intense today and unease widespread. The suicide bombing at the United Nations headquarters in the converted Canal Hotel, a former catering school with fake Babylonian lion friezes in the lobby, resonated far beyond the palm-lined Baghdad highway where it sits. 
For Iraqis, it suggested that their country might already be trapped in a cycle of bloodshed more widespread and cruel than they thought possible after the American invasion. 
Many feel helpless. They are not sure whom to blame, pointing the finger alternately at Islamic militant groups and Iraq's own neighbors, all of whom they believe might have an interest in wrecking efforts to rebuild the country under American guidance.
But they also condemned the Americans, seeing the attack as another sign of the poor job the occupation forces are doing providing security in a country they now nominally control.
"They occupied this city, and they have no ability to protect it," said Dr. Dulair Omar Muhammad, a surgeon at Iban al Kindi Hospital, where 4 dead Iraqis and 35 wounded of various nationalities were brought after the blast.
It was mostly the walking wounded who were taken to Iraqi hospitals. The United Nations employees covered in blood and on stretchers were whisked away in a continuous whirl of American helicopters to be treated at military facilities. 
Many people said they believed that the bombing was directed not at the United Nations itself, but at the American-led occupation administration that works behind heavy barriers, machine guns, tanks and endless coils of barbed wire. 
After a bombing at the Jordanian Embassy last week, senior American officials warned that other soft targets might be next. But the United Nations deliberately avoided sealing itself off because it feared that such barriers would send the wrong message to Iraqis seeking help. 
"Clearly those who are opposed to the occupation were hoping that this would be a blow to the Americans," said Mr. Lone, who is Kenyan. "The more insecurity there is, the more uncertain people become about the American role."
The United Nations has been struggling with its own role, a marginal one beside that of the United States. Its senior officials put a brave face on returning sovereignty to Iraq, but acknowledged that it was not really theirs to give.
At a news conference a week ago, Mr. Vieira de Mello, asked to describe his balancing act between the Americans and the Iraqis, said, "This is delicate and even bizarre."
The United Nations has been a target before. Three employees were killed over the last few months in various shooting attacks. Employees were not allowed to set up a branch office in Hilla, about a 90-minute drive south of Baghdad, because several vehicles had been attacked on the road there. In Baghdad, United Nations staff members were required to be home after 6:30 p.m., even though the curfew for the rest of the city begins at 11 p.m. 
Still, everybody assumed that the headquarters was safe. Iraqis might not exactly love the United Nations, but a full 60 percent of the population depended entirely on the handouts the organization administered under the relief program initiated in 1996 to ease the effects of international economic sanctions. Those subsidies were set to continue through the fall.
"We were convinced that there would be no huge attack," Mr. Lone said. 
Yet he remembers the first time he encountered Mr. Vieira de Mello after the suave Brazilian diplomat took up his post at the beginning of June, shocked to find him surrounded by armed bodyguards.
"I had never seen a U.N. person protected by machine guns at the ready," he said, noting that there had been no specific threats against the organization. 
The bodyguards who brandished those machine guns, their faces and necks bleeding from shattered glass, were in tears today as they struggled in vain to find a way to reach their boss. 
"He was telling them that he was fine," said Elahe Sharifpour-Hicks, a human rights worker who was out of her office right under Mr. Vieira de Mello's at the time of the blast. "His bodyguards were all injured, cut in the neck and the face. They were all rushing around trying to help and crying." 
Both Iraqi and American officials have been saying for the last two weeks that Iraq is becoming the focus of the international militant Islamic groups determined to wage war against the West, with hundreds of them pouring into the country.
American officials tend to lump them all together under the name of Ansar al-Islam, an extremist movement once based in northern Iraq whose ranks swelled with Arab fighters after the United States attacked Afghanistan in the wake of 9/11. 
But Iraqi experts are convinced that both militant groups and regional powers like Iran and Syria -- despite their official denials -- all have an interest in trying to defeat American efforts to install a working democracy in Iraq. Opponents object to both the American presence here and the idea that the United States might establish a system that would be a viablealternative to their own. 
"They want to destabilize the country, to show it's unsafe, that there is no law and order," said Mahmoud Othman, an independent Kurdish member of the Iraqi Governing Council, adding in reference to an eventual threat to their own future, "If Iraq is stable, then their turn will come." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); HOSPITALS (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); RELIGION (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



484 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: THE CALIFORNIA RECALL: THE OVERVIEW; 
Job on the Line, Davis Promises To Fight Recall

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER with DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
In a fight for his political life, Gov. Gray Davis pleaded with Californians today to reject the attempt to recall him, describing it as part of a right-wing effort "to steal elections Republicans cannot win."
 Mr. Davis, a Democrat elected to a second term only last fall, made a vigorous case for himself in a late-afternoon address at the University of California at Los Angeles that was carried live on several local television stations and cable news networks. 
 "There are many reasons to be against this recall," he said. "It is expensive, it's undemocratic, it's a bad precedent, and it almost certainly will breed more recalls." Excerpts, Page A18. 
Mr. Davis's speech came at a critical juncture in which he is fighting a growing perception in his party that his ouster is inevitable. In a vivid illustration of the governor's difficulties, Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, the only prominent Democrat on the recall ballot, in essence kicked off his own campaign today, appearing outside his home near Sacramento to present a plan raising $8 billion in new income, tobacco and commercial property taxes to solve the state's budget problems.
Mr. Davis's speech was his first full address on a recall election that threatens his political future. He offered apologies to voters for his handling of California's energy and budget crises, but argued that he had been hampered by Republican legislators and a "massive fraud" by energy trading companies and that replacing him would only worsen the state's troubles.
"The Republicans behind this recall say they want you to oust me for past mistakes," he said. "My friends, they don't give a rip about past mistakes. This is all about control in the future, seizing back the governor's chair and believing with so many candidates running for office they can do it with just a handful of California voters. That's what this is all about."
Mr. Davis vowed to devote the next seven weeks to fighting the recall, and the next three years -- if he is allowed to serve them -- to improving the lot of all Californians.
Today's appearances by the state's two top Democrats came as Mr. Bustamante's campaign appeared to be gaining ground. A recent poll found him running even with Arnold Schwarzenegger, and a state employees' union and the Legislature's Latino caucus have put their weight behind him should voters choose to recall Mr. Davis.
The recall ballot, in a vote scheduled for Oct. 7, will have two parts. Voters first must decide whether to oust Mr. Davis. The second part of the ballot will list 135 candidates running to succeed him. 
Mr. Davis once hoped that Democrats would see him as their only choice, and his aides tried to keep other Democrats from putting their names on the ballot. But Mr. Bustamante jumped into the race 12 days ago, and is now walking a tightrope, urging voters to reject the recall but offering himself as a successor to Mr. Davis if it succeeds.
Relations between the two men, which have always been strained, are near the breaking point. Each was aware of the other's plans to stage high-profile events today, but went ahead anyway.
In his appearance, Mr. Bustamante, who has been elected lieutenant governor twice on the same ballot as Mr. Davis but not as part of a ticket, criticized the recall drive as an effort financed by right-wing money to hijack the electoral process.
But he was solicitous of those who had signed petitions seeking a recall vote, saying they were neither conspirators nor dupes but instead voters genuinely unhappy with the direction of the state. And he said he now felt obligated to present a plan to govern the state should he be elected.
His economic plan would right the state's budget problemns largely through new taxes on the rich and big commercial property owners. He challenged everyone running for governor in the recall to come forth with a specific economic program. He also said that if he could not get his program through the Legislature, he would take it directly to the voters through the ballot-initiative process.
In response to a question about his relations with Mr. Davis, Mr. Bustamante deadpanned, "I'd say my relationship with the governor is as good as anybody else's in Sacramento." Strategists and lawmakers say Mr. Davis has few friends or allies in the state capital.
As for Mr. Davis's speech, it clearly reflected the advice he has been receiving from former President Bill Clinton, who has urged him to put the recall in a larger context of aggressive Republican efforts to alter the course of elections.
Trying to rally the Democratic base, Mr. Davis alluded to the impeachment of Mr. Clinton in 1998, the fight over the presidential election in Florida in 2000 and the Republican effort to redraw legislative districts in Texas this year.
Even his wording echoed that of Mr. Clinton, who frequently used the phrase "I don't give a rip."
Aides said Mr. Davis was sending a clear message to California voters that he had heard and understood their frustration with the direction of the state and that he accepted his share of responsibility for it.
One senior adviser said Mr. Davis, who has an aloof image and a generally wooden speaking style, had to find some way to connect with alienated California voters before he could ask for their support in the recall election.
"I know that many of you feel that I was slow to act on the energy crisis," Mr. Davis said early in the address. "I got the message, and I accept that criticism."
But in his own defense he said that his state had been "victimized by a massive fraud" by Enron and other energy trading companies. He said that while large sections of the Northeast and the Upper Midwest suffered a power failure last week, the lights had stayed on in California for the past two years.
Mr. Davis said that while he was grappling with California's energy problems, Vice President Dick Cheney was meeting with executives of some of the companies that contributed to the crisis. And he criticized President Bush's handling of the economy, saying the nation had lost three million jobs and gone from large government surpluses to huge deficits during his administration.
Addressing a budget crisis that forced the state to pare its own $38.2 billion deficit this year, the governor admitted, "I could have been tougher in holding down spending when we had surpluses." 
But he said California was a victim of a national recession and the collapse of the dot-com bubble. He noted that 46 other states were in similar fiscal distress. And he said much of the spending that led to the state's deep budget deficits had gone to schools and health care. "I make no apologies for that," he said.
The governor said Republican charges that he hid the depth of the state's fiscal crisis during last fall's race for governor, which he won by a narrow margin, were "preposterous."
He said he would travel the state in coming weeks and "answer all questions" about his job performance. He said the state was solving its energy and budget problems, and predicted that the economy would bounce back.
"But this right-wing power grab is something we won't get over," he said. "It would do lasting damage to our state, our environment and the very fabric of our democracy."
Mr. Bustamante, who spoke to reporters on the sidewalk outside his home in a new housing development in Elk Grove, a suburb about 15 miles south of Sacramento, called his plan "Tough Love for California." He warned Californians that there were more hard times ahead.
"The simple truth is we all got into this mess together," Mr. Bustamante said. "And we're all going to have to get out the same way: together. It is time for everyone to stop blaming everyone else."
Mr. Bustamante said he still believed that his candidacy amounted to a "win-win" alternative for Democrats, in that they would win if Governor Davis survived the recall vote and would also win if Mr. Bustamante was elected in the event that the governor loses.
While the Democrats made dual appearances, the best-known Republican candidate, Mr. Schwarzenegger, released a television advertisement today that his campaign will begin showing across the state on Wednesday. In the advertisement, Mr. Schwarzenegger offers no specific policies, but promises to run a "fiscally responsible government" and to rebuild the state's economy. "I want to be the people's governor," he says.
Peter V. Ueberroth, meanwhile, the former baseball commissioner running as a Republican, will appear publicly on Wednesday to discuss his campaign for the first time. He will meet with reporters and is expected to stress the chief themes of his candidacy: economic development and a sound state budget.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the day that Gov. Gray Davis, right, was pleading with California voters for his political life, another prominent Democrat, Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, was offering himself as an alternative by presenting an economic plan to help resolve the state's longtime severe fiscal problems. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (64%); ENERGY MARKETS (64%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (56%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



485 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: The Power Failure: Put Politics Aside 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As a Californian, I appreciated Paul Krugman's Aug. 19 column about the energy distribution crisis created by deregulation. 
 We shouldn't have to make choices about electricity. It should be there for all of us, like air and water. It's a necessity of modern life.
Deregulation in California was a deal between energy companies and legislators, and the results are disastrous. Big business saw an industry that was in place, working well, with an infrastructure built in a sane and methodical fashion over the long term, and now it's harvesting the results for its own benefit, not consumers'. 
This brings short-term gain for the few and long-term disaster for the population. It seems that if left to its own devices, the big-business free-market combine will be happy to cut us down to a third-world country. 
Would big business consider loosening air-pollution controls good for the economy if that created jobs and the growth of a bottled oxygen market?

NANCY SPILLER
Glendale, Calif., Aug. 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); AIR QUALITY (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Nancy Spiller; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



486 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York TimesCompany 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Bond Battle Could Blow Hole in City's Shaky Budget

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
New York State is suing New York City, but only because the city did not get to court first. The governor and the Legislature are at war. The city is fighting for an aid package it did not even want at first. Even by Albany standards, the battle over a state aid package to help New York City balance its budget is one for the books.
 A series of political decisions, cascading down through the years in much the way the power failure cascaded through the electric grid last week, led to the current standoff. 
 "This is the way New York State seems to do things," said Barbara Bartoletti, the legislative director for the New York State League of Women Voters. "We are usually in a fine kettle of fish for one reason or another having to do with our dysfunctional government." 
At stake is a plan to save the city half a billion dollars a year. If the deal is scuttled without a workable alternative, it will blow a hole in the city's precariously balanced budget, requiring more cuts or taxes. The battle has its roots in the repeal of the commuter tax, which was done in 1999 with the blessing of State Assembly Democrats from New York City who wanted to help sway a State Senate race that year. It has since cost the city more than a billion dollars. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg decided not to call for the commuter tax's reinstatement until after Gov. George E. Pataki, his fellow Republican, won re-election last year. At that point, the governor and the State Senate refused even to consider it.
The route to a state budget eliminated the chance for a compromise. Governor Pataki walked away from negotiations in the spring and left everything up to the Legislature, which passed a budget and a city aid package over his vetoes. Now Mr. Pataki has gone to court to try to undo the city aid package that was reached without him.
To cap it off, all sides now agree that there is apparently an error in the way the city aid bill was drafted. Mark Page, the city's budget director, said in an affidavit released yesterday that the bill "was enacted at the end of an intensely negotiated state budget process, as part of a large budget bill, and that it was drafted in considerable haste." That is, of course, business as usual in Albany.
From a fiscal management point of view, the disputed deal does not have much to recommend it. It would save $500 million this year -- roughly the same amount the city would have gotten from the commuter tax -- by allowing the city to refinance its debt left over from the 1970's fiscal crisis. The state would then give the city the money, $170 million, to pay off the refinanced bonds.
What that amounts to is making the generation that is just now being born pay off debt that is already about 25 years old. That disco era debt, which is just five years from being paid off, would be stretched out until the 2030's, with state taxpayers paying it back plus more than $2 billion in interest.
Even when the plan was announced, one city official described it as a kind of "Rube Goldberg contraption." The city was to form a corporation to borrow $2.5 billion to pay back the old debt. A state corporation called the Local Government Assistance Corporation, which gets its money from the state sales tax, would disburse $170 million a year for the next 30 years so the city could pay back the new bonds.
But just as the city prepared to sell the first bonds, the board of the state corporation, which is made up of two Pataki appointees and State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, voted this month not to send the money to the city. Then they filed a lawsuit to block the deal, and won a court order to stop the city's bond sale.
"Pataki's criticisms of the deal are absolutely correct," said Jonathan Bowles, the research director of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit public policy organization. "But I fault the governor and the Legislature for not coming up with a better plan to help New York City."
Yesterday the city filed legal papers in State Supreme Court in Albany seeking permission to proceed with the refinancing deal. The city argued that any error in the aid package bill was unintentional and that the structure of the deal was legal.
The city wants to lock in the state payment of $170 million a year because it knows that future lawmakers could try to renege on the deal made this year, and it wants to reassure investors that the bonds they buy will be paid back. The state law passed by the Legislature this spring establishing the deal says in one place that the state money is not subject to an annual appropriation in the state budget. But the State Constitution, both sides agree, requires that the budget authorize such expenditures each year. 
Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, argued yesterday that the line in question was an unintentional error. He said that the court should either interpret the law to require an annual appropriation, in line with the State Constitution, or strike the erroneous line and let the overall law stand.
"We say, when you put all of this together, it can't possibly be that the Legislature tried to help New York City to the tune of this $500 million a year, intended to pass a statute and at the same time make it unconstitutional," he said at a news conference.
The city argues that it would face "irreparable harm" if the sale is delayed, because interest rates are rising and each percentage point in the interest rate will cost the city corporation $25 million in interest on the deal.
But Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the governor's budget office, said, "We continue to strongly believe that taxpayers and their children and grandchildren will face irreparable harm if this plan is allowed to move forward because they will be saddled with billions of dollars in unnecessary and avoidable costs."
It is a strange turn of events for the city to be fighting for this deal. For months this year it was Mayor Bloomberg who used the line about not saddling future generations with today's burdens. He wanted to tax commuters to get the people who use city services to pay for them. He has refused to do the exact kind of borrowing to pay for city services that he is now fighting for.
But, many city officials say, the deal is necessary to compensate for a state error made four years ago -- the repeal of the city's commuter tax. It was a move rooted in the kind of pragmatic politics that Albany has become known for.
The state's Democrats were trying to win a State Senate seat in 1999, an open seat in Rockland County. After the commuter tax became an issue in the race, Democrats decided to support its repeal. So, with the blessing of Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, and other city Democrats from the city, the tax was repealed. The Democrat lost the election anyway. 
New York City was left with a hole in its budget that appeared insignificant at first. Then, when the national recession hit and the city was attacked on Sept. 11, 2001, the hole mattered.
A judge could rule on the legal case brought by the governor by Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); VETO (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POWER FAILURES (75%); LEGISLATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Government Bonds; Suits and Litigation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



487 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Attack on U.N. Compound In Baghdad Kills 17
A suicide bomber drove a cement mixer full of explosives into the side of the United Nations compound in Baghdad, killing 17 people and wounding at least 100 in an attack on one of the principal agencies in charge of rebuilding Iraq. Among the dead was Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations secretary general's special representative in Iraq. A1

President Bush denounced the attack and vowed that the United States would not be deterred from confronting terrorism and bringing stability to Iraq. The bombing provided Democrats with a new opportunity to criticize Mr. Bush for failing to anticipate the perils in Iraq. A8

One of Saddam Hussein's most loyal and ruthless aides, Taha Yassin Ramadan, was captured in Mosul and turned over to allied forces in northern Iraq, American military officials said. Mr. Ramadan was the vice president of Iraq and No. 20 on the American list of the 55 most-wanted Iraqis. A9

Bus Bomb Kills 18 in Mideast
A Palestinian suicide bomber killed at least 18 people, including children, when he detonated an explosive packed with ball bearings aboard a city bus crowded with families, some of them returning from Judaism's holiest site, the Western Wall. Israel froze all contacts with the Palestinian leadership after the bombing. Militants from both Hamas and Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility. The Israeli police said the bomber was from Hamas. A1

U.S. Support for Drug Policy
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, on a one-day visit to Colombia, said the United States would support Colombia in resuming a policy that allows Colombian fighter pilots to force or shoot down planes suspected of ferrying drugs. The policy has been criticized by human rights groups. A1

9 Afghan Police Officers Killed
Suspected Taliban fighters killed nine police officers, including a local police chief, in eastern Afghanistan on Monday, government officials said. A3

NATIONAL A10-18

California Governor Pleads For Voters to Reject Recall
In a fight for his political life, Gov. Gray Davis pleaded with Californians to reject the attempt to recall him, calling it part of a national effort by Republicans "to steal elections they cannot win." A1

Phoenix Battles Gas Shortage
Tempers are beginning to fray in Phoenix, where a severe gasoline shortage caused by a ruptured pipeline has forced thousands of motorists into round-the-block lines at filling stations. A10

A Move to Alter School Plan
Florida's State Board of Education voted unanimously to advocate sharply scaling back a disputed plan to lower class size, a move that could cost taxpayers billions of dollars. Voters approved the plan as a constitutional amendment last fall. A10

Call for Marriages in Clergy
More than 160 Roman Catholic priests in the Milwaukee Archdiocese have signed copies of a letter calling on the church to allow married men to join the priesthood. A10

Janklow May Have Run Sign
Representative Bill Janklow, a mainstay of South Dakota politics for three decades, ran a stop sign before his Cadillac collided with a motorcycle at a rural intersection on Saturday, killing the motorcycle rider, a prosecutor said. A10

Farmers Ready to Give Up Aid
Tobacco farmers along with the senators from tobacco country say they are prepared to give up the government crop limits and price supports to combat foreign competition. A13

Ashcroft Defends Terror Policy
Attorney General John Ashcroft warned that any attempt to strip law enforcement agents of their expanded legal powers could open the way to further terrorist attacks. A14

Bush Cites Own Energy Record
President Bush stood at a gas station near his ranch in Texas and said he had been calling for an energy bill to modernize the nation's electricity grid "for a long time." A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Department of Energy To Lead Power Inquiry
The Department of Energy has agreed to lead an investigation to determine precisely how a huge swath of the nation's electrical system collapsed last week, leaving millions in the dark and inflicting widespread damage on local economies from Detroit to New York. A1

Evidence Misuse Accusations
A defense lawyer in a New York terrorism prosecution has accused the government of mishandling the computerized surveillance records of thousands of phone calls, faxes and computer data collected in the case, a secret filing shows. B1

Mother Held in Boy's Death
Family members mourned the death of 14-year-old Matthew Calbi of New Jersey, who the police believe was beaten to death by his mother, just two months after he was returned to her custody. B1

EDUCATION B8

ARTS E1-8

DINING F1-10

Strip-Mall Cuisine
A curious dining phenomenon is gaining attention in Los Angeles: strip-mall cuisine. Little-known holes in the walls, lurking on just about every major intersection in town, are the antidote to everything flashy and velvet-roped. F1

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES A19

Sergio Vieira de Mello
The top United Nations official in Iraq and the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, who had served the organization in trouble spots around the globe, he was 55. A8

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Hewlett Reports Weak Profits
Hewlett-Packard reported that its sales and profits for the quarter fell short of analysts' predictions. The giant computer company will reduce its work force. C1

Battle Over Prilosec Likely
Two drug companies said they would soon sell cheaper versions of Prilosec, a heartburn drug, which could lead to a fight between managed-care companies and drug makers. C1

New Dispute at Verizon
As negotiators for Verizon Communications and its workers resumed bargaining, the two sides swapped accusations over a possible misuse of the company's trademark phrase. C1

Medco and Merck Split Up
Medco Health Solutions, the nation's largest drug benefit manager, became independent in a spinoff to shareholders of Merck & Company. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The Baghdad bombing: a mission imperiled, and a nation-builder slain; when cellphone service fails; Tiger's test.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FAMILY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); DRUG POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); GAS STATIONS (64%); GASOLINE (64%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); HAMAS (82%); HEZBOLLAH (54%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



488 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Investor Confidence Rises 

BYLINE:  By Victor Homola (NYT)

 BODY:
 German investor confidence jumped to the highest level in more than a year, according to a survey released by the ZEW Center for European Economic Research. 
The institute's index that measures expectations for economic growth rose to 52.5 in August from 41.9 in July, gaining for an eighth month. The center said that the rise in optimism is likely a result of an accelerating economy in the United States, rising manufacturing orders, and solid financial results posted by some big German companies. Victor Homola (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (83%) GERMANY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



489 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Hit 17-Year High in July 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Starts on new homes unexpectedly surged last month to the highest level in 17 years, a new report shows, providing further evidence that housing remains remarkably robust.
 Builders started work on 1.872 million homes at an annual rate in July, a 1.5 percent increase from June and the most since 1.933 million in April 1986, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Mortgage rates that have risen more than a percentage point over the last month have not discouraged buyers, construction company executives said. 
 "We see in our markets a high degree of traffic and optimism," said Laurence Hirsch, the chairman and chief executive of the Centex Corporation, a Dallas-based home builder. 
But the Commerce Department report also showed that building permits, an indicator of future production, fell 2.4 percent last month to 1.78 million, from 1.823 million a month ago. The drop in building permits was led by authorizations for multifamily projects, which declined 9.8 percent in July.
And consumer confidence might not be quite as strong as previously thought. The University of Michigan's closely watched sentiment index fell to 90.2 in August, from 90.9 in July. A drop in Americans' perception of their financial situation tempered sentiment.
The Michigan university's current conditions index decreased to 100.5 this month from 102.1 in July. That largely reflected a drop in expectations for wage increases and concern about higher gasoline prices in the summer driving season, people with access to the survey said.
Still, the University of Michigan survey, released on Friday, showed an increase of more than 10 points since the end of the Iraq war.
The housing report showed that starts of single-family homes rose 1.9 percent in July to a rate of 1.521 million units, the highest since 1.525 million in November 1978. Starts of multifamily homes declined 0.6 percent to an annual rate of 351,000.
Single-family permits edged down 0.3 percent, to a 1.423 million annual rate from June, which had the highest pace since 1960. 
Builders have reported a rise in demand even as mortgage rates rose from June's record low of 5.21 percent. The rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose as high as 6.34 percent in early August, according to Freddie Mac, the nation's second-largest mortgage buyer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers in Philadelphia installed a glass door at a new home yesterday. Home building surged last month, even though mortgage rates rose. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); CENTEX CORP (70%); PULTEGROUP INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (70%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (70%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (70%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



490 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Suits and Pleas Look to Recoup Money Lost In the Blackout 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
From Albany to City Hall, from private law firms to a public power authority, New Yorkers are beginning to seek relief or a refund for money they lost in the blackout. 
 A New York law firm has already filed a class-action lawsuit against FirstEnergy Corporation, the utility that owns four transmission lines in northeast Ohio that failed in the hour before the grid went down. A Queens councilman is planning to file a similar suit in the next few days. 
 On Friday, Gov. George E. Pataki asked President Bush to declare a federal emergency in New York, a move that could begin pumping in federal money to pay for equipment and overtime costs. 
And yesterday, a host of city officials and local congressmen stood on the steps of City Hall and joined the chorus calling for federal aid.
"This seems to me actually to be something of a no-brainer," said Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker. "It was a national disaster. The financial capital of the world, as well as 8 states and 50 million people, lost power for, in some cases, more than a day. That's a disaster just as much as when flooding occurs and people lose power as a result of that. So, all we're asking for the federal government to do is to treat us the same."
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has ruled out suing to recover damages from the blackout, saying on Monday that he did not even know whether such a lawsuit was even legally possible.
"I suspect that the costs of those suits would far outweigh the benefit," he said, in remarks reported in The New York Post. "Some things happen, and there's just nobody responsible. Stuff happens, and you have to adjust to it."
Others were skeptical as well. Andrew Gansberg, an Albany lawyer who is chairman of the New York State Bar Association's Utility Law Committee, said he doubted the suits would bear fruit. To win a case stemming from the blackout, plaintiffs must prove gross negligence or willful misconduct -- in short, that power companies knew of a major weakness in the system and did nothing to correct it.
"It's a very difficult standard to meet," said Mr. Gansberg, who represents utilities, not the customers who sue them.
In most cases, an individual customer sues the utility, usually to recoup damage from spoiled food, Mr. Gansberg said.
Although the Long Island Power Authority has not yet decided how it will try to recover the $20 million it says it lost during the blackout, it has hired a law firm to explore its options. The authority's chairman, Richard Kessel, said lawyers would also represent Long Island customers who want to file claims for spoiled food, broken appliances or any other damage from the blackout.
"We've got a lot of people out there who feel they're entitled" to compensation, Mr. Kessel said. "Someone's to blame. There should be a way to get our money back." 
Amid the skepticism about the chances of lawsuits recovering any money, state and local emergency organizations are totaling the economic burden of the blackout to determine whether or how New York can somehow recover the costs.
Though the state has not yet calculated its losses, the city comptroller's office estimated that New York City lost more than $1 billion. The figure includes $800 million in lost gross city product and $250 million in perishable foods that restaurants and residents had to throw out
"Someone is responsible, and someone has to pay," said Councilman Hiram Monserrate, a Democrat from Queens, who is planning to file a class-action lawsuit against a raft of utilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); MAYORS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); OVERTIME (69%); MISCONDUCT (64%) Electric Light and Power; Suits and Litigation; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Federal Aid (US)

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (51%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Patrick Healy; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki; Gifford (Council Speaker) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



491 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, Tobacco Growers Consider the Unthinkable: Giving Up Price Supports 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
With foreign competition increasing and their income falling steadily, tobacco farmers along with the senators from tobacco country say they are prepared to do something that would have been unthinkable only a few years ago: give up the government crop limits and price supports they have enjoyed since the Depression.
 In what could be a turning point for the government's role in tobacco production, many pivotal senators have joined with farmers to press for a buyout of tobacco quotas by the industry, ending the federal program that determines who can grow tobacco and how much they can sell. In return, the Food and Drug Administration would gain the authority to regulate tobacco products under a legislative plan that Congress will consider this fall. That would give the agency power it sought in 1996 only to have the Supreme Court rule that it had exceeded its authority. 
 The willingness of the senators and farmers to accept what they once abhorred reflects the adverse economics of a crop that was highly lucrative in its day but that society has turned against. 
But it has frayed their ties with a significant segment of the cigarette industry, which would have to finance the buyout through a levy on its products.
"The handwriting is not only on the wall, it is in capital letters on the wall," said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate and a chief sponsor of the new legislation. "Our growers see their land value dropping and their income dropping and we want to try to help them and help them soon."
Joined by senators from Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia, Mr. McConnell and his fellow Kentuckian Jim Bunning in late July introduced a $13 billion proposal to retire the vestiges of the program created seven decades ago to fix the tobacco supply and guarantee a minimum price. The buyout money, to be paid over six years, would be tied to the prices paid for tobacco last year and come from an assessment on importers and domestic manufacturers of tobacco products.
An industry bailout of this magnitude is certain to be greeted skeptically by lawmakers from outside the tobacco belt, some of whom will view it as a reward to longtime producers of a product with substantial health consequences.
Its sponsors acknowledge that the only way the plan can pass is if it is tied to F.D.A. authority over the manufacture and distribution of tobacco, a longtime goal of public health advocates. Mr. McConnell, who describes that prospect as a "bitter pill" he is willing to swallow, said Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, plan to advance a companion F.D.A. measure early in September.
Growers hope that the marriage of the buyout and regulation can attract enough votes in Congress to cause a breakthrough, since they say many are tottering financially. In Kentucky alone, more than 4,000 tobacco farmers have given up since 1998. Farmers have watched the amount of tobacco they are allowed to grow under the system decline steeply as the tobacco companies have begun buying more overseas -- a main issue in the rift between the growers and the industry. The intricate system of production limits, or quotas, involves calculations by the Agriculture Department using a formula that considers cigarette manufacturers' planned use, exports and tobacco held in inventory by price stabilization cooperatives.
Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina, another chief sponsor of the measure, has estimated that the amount of tobacco allowed to be grown has been cut by 50 percent over the past six years.
"We've got a lot of farmers, if it doesn't happen this year, they will be bankrupt," said Brian L. Furnish, director of government relations for the Burley Tobacco Growers Cooperative Association in Lexington, Ky.
He estimated that under the buyout, tobacco growers in Kentucky would get an average of less than $7,500 a year compared with $10,000 annually that producers of other crops get under farm subsidies, though some large tobacco farmers and holders of tobacco quotas would receive substantially more.
A large segment of the tobacco industry says that if the proposed buyout does happen, the industry will face serious financial troubles.
An official at R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company said his spreadsheet put the first-year cost for his company at a net $413 million -- more than 80 percent of its expected earnings of $470 million to $495 million for this year. Tommy J. Payne, the company's executive vice president for external relations, said he objected to the plan at a recent meeting with Mr. Dole.
"If this bill becomes law," he said, "you are going to replicate for tobacco manufacturing what has happened to textile manufacturing: low-cost competition and significant loss of high-paid manufacturing jobs in areas that are being hammered by job loss."
Lawmakers, growers and health advocates say the industry is exaggerating the impact of the plan and failing to take into account the lower cost of domestic tobacco in a free market after a buyout. They point to the strong financial performance of the companies after the much larger 1998 settlement with the states over health costs. Most say the companies can simply pass along the expense.
"These arguments that some are going to be bankrupt and everyone should feel sorry for them, people are not buying it," said Scott D. Ballin, a health policy consultant working with the growers.
But an executive at Lorillard Tobacco said companies were reaching the saturation point. "The tobacco industry is no longer in a position where it can pass along tax increases to the consumer and not experience a direct hit in our sales volume," said Steve Watson, a Lorillard spokesman. His company wants to negotiate a buyout privately between the industry and growers.
The industry, however, is not united. Philip Morris, the largest cigarette company, has endorsed the concept of F.D.A. regulation linked to a buyout, with its chairman, Mike Szymanczyk, telling the House Agriculture Committee late last month that the "convergence" puts a buyout within reach.
R. J. Reynolds and Lorillard, joined by Brown & Williamson, disagree. Mr. Watson of Lorillard and Mr. Payne of RJR said F.D.A. regulation would give Philip Morris an advantage under new advertising restrictions since its leading Marlboro brand is so well-known.
Passing the legislation is far from assured. The House has more costly buyout plans. And Republican leaders there are likely to characterize the assessment as a tax.
Health advocates are following developments and want to make certain the F.D.A. rules will be strong enough. "Bad F.D.A. regulation is worse than none," said Wendy Selig, vice president of legislative affairs at the American Cancer Society.
The health groups favor providing the F.D.A. with broad new authority over tobacco, including the ability to regulate health claims made for "reduced-risk" products, the right to restrict marketing campaigns and the power to disclose the ingredients of tobacco products using rules now in force for food and drugs.
Mr. McConnell concedes he will have a tough job persuading his colleagues to impose the new industry assessment and then divert most of the money to a handful of states. "Everyone in the tobacco belt has signed up, and we are going to try to pass this bill," he said. "It is going to be heavy lifting legislatively."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Mitch McConnell expects a hard fight on tobacco legislation. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO FARMING (95%); AGRICULTURE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); BAILOUTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); JIM BUNNING (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



492 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: LEGISLATION; 
Ambitious Bush Plan Is Undone by Energy Politics

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF GERTH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush stood at a gasoline station near his ranch in Texas today and said he had been calling for an energy bill to modernize the nation's electricity grid "for a long time."
 Mr. Bush is quite right. A comprehensive energy policy was part of his platform as a candidate for president and seemed prescient from his very first week in office, when he was forced to ensure there was enough power in California to ease the state's rolling blackouts. By May 2001, largely because of the California crisis, Mr. Bush had released his energy plan. 
 But the president's ambitious policy quickly became a casualty of energy politics and, notably, harsh criticism from Democrats enraged by the way the White House had created the plan. Although the policy included recommendations to improve the nation's electric grid that everyone agreed on, they were lost in the shouting and have been dormant in Congress for the past two years.
Since last week's blackout, those proposals have again taken on new urgency, and Mr. Bush, like other politicians, has been compelled to speak out. This morning, he told reporters that he was assured on Monday night by Congressional Republicans that a conference committee would begin work within 20 days on a final package of energy legislation. 
"Now is the time for the Congress to move and get something done," the president said.
Mr. Bush first outlined the details of a wide-ranging energy plan during his presidential campaign in September 2000, in Saginaw, Mich., when he called for more domestic fuel production, better relations with foreign oil suppliers and the opening of 19 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, in northeastern Alaska, for oil exploration. The plan also called for the production of more electricity to meet demand, but that part of it received little notice. Most of the attention was focused on the uproar by environmentalists over Mr. Bush's proposal to drill in the wildlife refuge, referred to in Washington shorthand as ANWR.
That focus shifted by the time Mr. Bush became president, when California's blackouts were shaking the world's energy industry and developing into a political and economic crisis. On his third day in office, after promising that he would not intervene, Mr. Bush agreed to extend for two weeks federal orders ensuring that California would not be left in the dark. But his administration warned that it was a short-term fix and that it would move ahead with an energy plan to solve problems like those in California over the long term.
"The president used that issue, the crisis in California, to highlight the need for a comprehensive energy policy," said Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who was the secretary of energy under President Bill Clinton.
The issue was considered so important that Vice President Dick Cheney was put in charge of a task force to draft the plan. 
Four months later, the task force produced the National Energy Policy Report, which in large part mirrored Mr. Bush's energy plan when he was a candidate. 
Although one of the driving forces for the report was by then gone -- California's blackouts had eased -- Chapter 7 called for improvements to the nation's power grid, and specifically recommended federal standards for electricity reliability on the nation's utilities. But as before, most of the attention was focused on the criticism over Mr. Bush's call for new drilling.
Democrats also criticized the methods of the task force itself. In a move that is still being fought in court today, Mr. Cheney, a former chief executive of Halliburton Inc., an oil services company, consulted privately as the task force went about its work with people from his old industry. One of them was Kenneth L. Lay, chairman of Enron.
Democrats and environmentalists vigorously attacked the meetings as evidence that the administration was relying too heavily on advice from people in the energy industry. And although administration officials just as vigorously responded that the task force did not give in to the wish lists of the industry, they also acknowledged that the criticism had a political impact and turned the energy debate into one about the methods of the task force, not its findings.
"Most people focused on the process and not the substance," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. Other administration officials say the criticism caused them to push less forcefully on the legislation than they otherwise might have.
The legislation was in any case largely forgotten after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as the White House and its critics turned to the more pressing issues of terrorism and national security. By early last year, the legislation grew more politically charged with the collapse of Enron and the disclosures that Enron had sought to manipulate California's electricity markets for profit.
The task force had by then disbanded, and Mr. Cheney receded as the administration's public face on the issue. Today, although White House officials say he is still deeply involved in the administration's energy policy, the gravitational center of the plan has shifted to the Department of Energy and its secretary, Spencer Abraham. Mr. Cheney has not given any speeches on energy since the work of the task force ended.
Today, administration officials say that 90 of the energy plan's 105 recommendations have been put into effect, including a proposal to repair a power transmission bottleneck in California that was a factor in the state's blackouts and high energy prices in 2001. A federal plan to build a power line that would help alleviate that bottleneck, officials say, is near completion.
But the broader provisions of the plan are still caught up in the larger politics of the energy bill. Both Democrats and Republicans said this week that the proposal to improve the electricity grid continued to be held hostage by the White House insistence that the bill include a plan for drilling in the Arctic refuge, and the vehement Democratic opposition to that position.
"ANWR is the Holy Grail for Democrats because of the environmental ties to the party, and ANWR then became the Holy Grail for the oil and gas Republican stalwarts," Mr. Richardson said.
At this point, White House officials say that Mr. Bush will agree to an energy bill only if it includes a provision for drilling in the refuge, even though, as Mr. Bartlett said, "The president fully understands the explosive nature of the debate." Senate Democrats say they will agree to the bill only if Arctic drilling is out. 
But Democrats also say Mr. Bush will be under increased pressure this fall to pass a bill to address the nation's electricity problems and that the White House may be forced to abandon Arctic oil drilling as its price.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 20 about the Bush administration's proposed energy plan misstated the extent to which President Bush would allow oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in northeastern Alaska. He proposed opening 1.546 million acres, not all 19 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, at a gasoline station near his ranch in Crawford, Tex., spoke to reporters yesterday about the need to approve energy legislation to address blackout problems. He was on his way to a golf outing. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); WILDLIFE (69%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); OIL EXPLORATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL RICHARDSON (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



493 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: THE CALIFORNIA RECALL: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Long on Time, Not Details

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

 BODY:
 This 60-second commercial, titled "Initial," will be shown starting today by Californians for Schwarzenegger, whose main contributor is Arnold Schwarzenegger himself, at $1 million, state election records show.

Unusually long for a political advertisement, it will be televised across California for about a week at a cost of at least $1 million, a Schwarzenegger strategist said. The cost of a prime-time 30-second advertising slot in Los Angeles ranges from $10,000 to $60,000.

Mr. Schwarzenegger is the first out of the television box in a recall field of 135. With this commercial, he squelches headlines, at least for a day, that suggest he is afraid to say something, anything.

PRODUCER -- Sipple: Strategic Communications Inc. The producer, Don Sipple, is best known for his dark and foreboding advertisement "They Just Keep Coming," which depicts illegal immigrants sneaking into California. Made in support of Proposition 187, a successful 1994 ballot initiative barring illegal immigrants from stateservices, the commercial has been criticized as demonizing an entire ethnic group.

ON THE SCREEN -- The advertisement opens with Mr. Schwarzenegger strolling along the walkway of a Bel Air-style home. Bougainvillea crawls up the side of the house; a gas lamp flickers above the threshold. It is a portrait of solidity and prosperity. Mr. Schwarzenegger, dressed in his familiar dark blazer and open white collar, appears strong and confident, regaining the famed composure that at times escapes him on the campaign trail. "The politicians are not doing their job," he says with a stab of the finger.

Cut to interior.

Mr. Schwarzenegger walks into a dark-paneled office with a big desk and a view of a garden through a large window, the kind of set from which presidents and governors address their citizens. He again uses the accusatory finger. "Give California back its future."

THE SCRIPT -- Mr. Schwarzenegger: "This historic election has come about because there is a tremendous disconnect between the people of California and the leaders of California. We, the people, are doing our job, working hard, raising our families and paying taxes, but the politicians are not doing their job. We can do better than that.
"After all, we are California, always at the forefront of innovation. Our farm products feed the world, and our technology is second to none.
"I am running for governor to lead a movement for change and give California back its future. I stand for fiscally responsible government, rebuilding California's economic engine, putting the needs of children first and reforming our political system so that the public interest comes before special interests.
"I want to be the people's governor. I will work honestly, without fear or favor, to do what is right for all Californians."
Announcer: "Join Arnold, and let's bring California back."

ACCURACY -- With no specifics, there is little to judge. Mr. Schwarzenegger is correct when he says that California farmers help feed the world and that Silicon Valley is at the forefront of the technological revolution. And most Californians do believe that the state's politicians can do a better job.

SCORECARD -- With the world waiting for him to emerge from his badger hole, Mr. Schwarzenegger could have taken a tour of the frozen foods section and made headlines. The past week was a bad one for the aging action hero. He was lacerated by fellow Republicans as a liberal in wolf's clothing. He had an important adviser, the billionaire Warren E. Buffett, admit that he thought property taxes should be increased. With its first advertisement, Team Schwarzenegger at least ends the silence. Still, Mr. Schwarzenegger relies heavily on empty turns of phrase, as when he refers to putting public interest before special interests without explaining how.
In the coming weeks he will have to offer specifics in his own voice as to why voters should replace Gov. Gray Davis with him. CHARLIE LeDUFF

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REFERENDUMS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BALLOTS (72%); FAMILY (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); CHILDREN (66%); ETHNICITY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



494 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 797 words

PERSON: Sergio Vieira de Mello 

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: A DIPLOMAT'S LIFE; 
Sergio Vieira de Mello, 55, of the U.N.: A Shining Reputation Built on Tough Tasks

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS

 BODY:
Sergio Vieira de Mello, the top United Nations official in Iraq and the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, who had served the organization in trouble spots around theglobe, died yesterday from injuries received in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. He was 55.
 "The loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello is a bitter blow for the United Nations and for me personally," Secretary General Kofi Annan said yesterday. "I can think of no one we could less afford to spare." 
 On May 29, Mr. Vieira de Mello, a Brazilian citizen, was picked by Mr. Annan to be his special representative in Iraq for four months. The choice was widely seen as a tribute to Mr. Vieira de Mello's exceptional diplomatic skills and charm, honed on a succession of difficult assignments that clearly qualified him for the task of helping rebuild Iraq.
A rare international diplomat who relished risky negotiations as well as grinding work in the field, Mr. Vieira de Mello was best known for leading the United Nations Transitional Administration that prepared East Timor for full independence after it broke from Indonesia.
Earlier he served as the chief United Nations official in Kosovo after United States bombing raids broke Serbian control of the province. 
He was rewarded for these successful missions with his appointment in September 2002 as high commissioner for human rights. (He was on a leave of absence from that job when he was killed.)
His firm but elegant style contrasted with the more confrontational approach of his predecessor, Mary Robinson, former president of Ireland, and, officials say, improved relations with the Bush administration.
Indeed, with his credentials as a citizen of the developing world and his ease moving in some of the more rarefied political circles, he was frequently mentioned as a potential candidate to head the United Nations.
Announcing Mr. Vieira de Mello's appointment to the Baghdad post, Mr. Annan acknowledged his exceptional experience in rebuilding war-devastated societies, saying: "No one has more experience in this area than Sergio Vieira de Mello. I need someone who can hit the ground running."
In Baghdad, Mr. Vieira de Mello faced the exceptionally difficult task of coordinating the United Nations' efforts to rebuild civil authority and promote humanitarian relief with a United States occupying force reluctant to cede authority to the United Nations. 
When the Security Council agreed last May to lift economic sanctions against Iraq and authorize the United States and Britain to administer the country until a democratic government was established, it also insisted on giving the United Nations a role in the country's postwar evolution.
From the moment he arrived, Mr. Vieira de Mello insisted his priority was to protect the interests of the Iraqi people during the United States-led occupation.
"I have been sent here with a mandate to assist the Iraqi people and those responsible for the administration of this land to achieve freedom, the possibility of managing their own destiny and determining their own future," he said shortly after he arrived in Iraq.
He also sympathized with the resentment of Iraqis at having foreign troops on their soil, telling a Brazilian newspaper in an interview published Monday: "It is traumatic. It must be one of the most humiliating periods in their history. Who would like to see their country occupied. I would not like to see foreign tanks in Copacabana." He was referring to the famous beach in Rio de Janeiro.
Yet in the short time that he was in Baghdad, Mr. Vieira de Mello established a satisfactory relationship with L. Paul Bremer III, the top United States administrator there, and he told friends he was confident they would be able to work constructively together.
Sergio Vieira de Mello was born on March 15, 1948, in Rio de Janeiro. He studied in Brazil and France, where he was awarded two doctorates from the University of Paris, becoming fluent in English, French and Spanish as well as Portuguese.
He joined the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva in 1969, becoming assistant high commissioner in 1996. He served in Bangladesh as it won independence in 1971 and in Cyprus after the 1974 Turkish invasion.
He spent three years in charge of refugees in Mozambique during the civil war that followed its independence from Portugal in 1975. He was political adviser to the United Nations peacekeepers in Lebanon from 1981 to 1983.
The 1990's found him dealing with refugees and other humanitarian problems in Cambodia, in the former Yugoslavia as it broke apart in a series of wars, and in the Great Lakes region of Africa torn by civil wars.
Mr. Vieira de Mello is survived by his wife, Annie; and their two sons, Adrien and Laurent.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Aug. 20, 2003, about Sergio Vieira de Mello, the high commissioner for human rights who was the United Nations' top official in Iraq when he was killed in a bombing in Baghdad, omitted a survivor. She was his partner, Carolina Larriera, with whom he lived in Paris. The omission was pointed out in a recent letter from his family.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergio Vieira de Mello, the top United Nations official in Iraq, who was killed. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003 



495 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook; 
Listening Carefully to Bard College's New Performing Arts Center

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL 

DATELINE: ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y., Aug. 17 

 BODY:
When the new Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College opened in April, architecture critics were almost all enchanted by Frank Gehry's undulating design. The music critics were friendly, too. Some expressed reservations about the sheer volume of the opening gala's centerpiece, Mahler's Third Symphony, in the 900-seat Sosnoff Theater, the largest hall in the complex. But basically, they said, the place sounded good.
 Now, after a fuller range of musical and dramatic events at the just-completed annual Bard Music Festival and the new Bard SummerScape, one can better judge those acoustics -- along with the aesthetics of the interiors and the prospects for how the center will be used year-round. 
 The short answers are that the acoustics are good to better than that, with some reservations; that the interior spaces, from the Sosnoff's Theater's concrete walls and wooden balconies to the black walls of the second-largest theater, look curiously utilitarian, a sharp contrast to the luxuriousness of Mr. Gehry's steel-plated facade; and that the Sosnoff appears as if it will be only modestly used during the academic year.
That limited performance schedule might seem to leave Jonathan Levi, the director of the Fisher Center, with precious little to do. But he puts a brave face on his situation, and the ever-loquacious Leon Botstein, Bard's president and the controlling force here, has an answer for every criticism.
Mr. Botstein is not only Bard's president but also the chief artistic director of the Bard Music Festival and music director of the American Symphony, which plays here regularly. He was involved in the Fisher Center planning from the outset; Mr. Levi came on board only last year.
The continuing discussion of the acoustics applies primarily to the Sosnoff Theater. Members of the American Symphony have reported that they can hear everyone on stage. Many in the audience were enthusiastic about the sound, which has a clarity, warmth and frequency range admirable for symphonic and operatic music -- and an immediacy inevitably lost in larger halls.
Mr. Botstein said that he and Mr. Gehry and Yasuhisa Toyota, a Japanese acoustician who is also working with Mr. Gehry on the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, collaborated on the acoustical and interior design. Mr. Toyota, he said, had insisted on an acoustical shell for orchestra concerts so massive that it acts like a permanent structure. It consists of 13 wooden towers, each weighing three tons and taking 40 staff hours to set up and break down.
Mr. Gehry also played an active role in acoustical considerations, arguing for an unusually tall space for the Sosnoff Theater. "Frank had the great idea of going up," Mr. Botstein said. "So the volume is equal to a much larger hall."
The deep stage and the risers, along with the shell, are made of wood. But some might assume that because the floor and walls are concrete, a certain acoustical hardness might result. Two recording engineers in Sunday's audience said they heard just that. Mr. Botstein demurs.
"The prejudice against concrete derives from its misuse in the 1950's," he argued. "It's psychological. It depends on how the hall is designed and how the concrete is treated and combined with other materials."
He added that the musicians have had only limited time to rehearse and perform in the new theater. Since the Bard Music Festival concentrates on rarely heard music, much of their and Mr. Botstein's time has been devoted to getting the notes right, leaving less opportunity for acoustical fine-tuning.
With its concrete and unadorned wood balconies and orange wood "ribbons" snaking along the walls, the Sosnoff Theater looks plain. The lobbies are small (one might say cramped), and the entire complex's interior comes uncomfortably close to that of a well-appointed high school. Mr. Botstein insisted that all this was deliberate.
"It was not a cost consideration but a design consideration," he said, speaking of the lobbies. As for the look of the interior spaces, he conceded that savings were one factor but not the predominant one.
"It was a budgetary decision but also an ideological one," he said. "These art forms are not commercial -- they require patronage, which in our society means private philanthropy. I didn't want the building to reflect the social class of its patrons with an elegance that would distance it from those who will use it." The randomized names on the seat fabric are not those of donors, but of the Bard graduating class of 2003.
As for programming, Mr. Levi said he had a $2.5 million budget that would be spent primarily on SummerScape. During the academic year, the smaller spaces will be used by Bard faculty and students. Some departments may bring in professional companies to the Sosnoff, although none have been announced. The American Symphony will relocate its annual three-program, six-concert Bard series there as well.
"We're not going to be bringing in high-priced productions; we have to make use of the resources we've got," Mr. Levi said, referring to his modest budget. "We'll do all kinds of easy stuff." He and Mr. Botstein hope to keep Sosnoff periodically occupied with theatrical and musical readings and conferences.
Even though both SummerScape and the Bard Music Festival came close to selling every ticket, the box office covers only a small part of the expenses, given the high cost of performances, the low price of the tickets and the small size of the theaters. For next year at least, Mr. Botstein added, his Bard Music Festival will continue to operate independently of Mr. Levi's SummerScape.
The academic-year underutilization, if that's what it will be, recalls rather eerily the fate of the American Center in Paris, which was also designed by Mr. Gehry and which still sits empty a decade after its completion. Construction gobbled up all the center's funds, and there was nothing left for programming. The building was eventually sold at a loss to the French government.
The Fisher Center's fate will hardly be so dire, but Mr. Botstein conceded he really didn't know how soon it would be operating closer to capacity. "It's a sleeping beauty, a long-term investment," he said. 
For now, programming remains limited because of the lean economy and diverse financial needs. Money must be raised for Bard itself, for special projects there (like a new science building), for the Bard Music Festival, for SummerScape, for the Fisher Center operating expenses, for the American Symphony and for the Jerusalem Symphony, of which Mr. Botstein was recently named music director. 
"To program in a building like this, to balance the different pulls for resources, is a challenge," Mr. Levi said. "The challenge is to find new people."
Mr. Botstein agreed. "Everything now is under pressure," he said. "We are not in the performing-arts business, unless we can find philanthropists who are not interested in Bard College but who are interested in this building. Absent such donors, the programs will be restricted to what we can afford in the summer. My first obligation is to the well-being of our educational mission."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Gehry's new Sosnoff Theater at Bard College, now in its inaugural season. Accoustical towers onstage can rise and fall as needed. (Photo by Peter Aaron/Esto) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%) MUSIC 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BARD COLLEGE; 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



496 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: An Elite Contest For a Growing U.N. 

BYLINE:  By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
A LITTLE more than 50 years ago, the United Nations brought together some of the world's most prominent architects, including Le Corbusier and Oscar Neimeyer, to design its headquarters on the East River. The result is a Modernist icon.
 Now the United Nations needs more space, and it has once again turned to some of the world's most prominent architects. The United Nations Development Corporation, an agency created by New York City and State, is narrowing the field in an elite competition to design a 900,000-square-foot building. 
 Earlier this year, Roy Goodman, the former state senator who heads the development corporation, wrote to all 23 living winners of the Pritzker Prize, which is considered architecture's highest honor. The laureates include Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas and the nonagenarians Philip Johnson and Mr. Neimeyer. Mr. Goodman invited them to compete to design a building on First Avenue at 42nd Street, just south of the existing United Nations complex.
Several of the architects, including Robert Venturi, I. M. Pei and Mr. Gehry, decided not to compete, they or their spokesmen said. Others wanted to, but were eliminated early in the summer. Mr. Johnson's design partner, Alan Ritchie, said: "We wrote a letter, saying we were interested, and enclosed a brochure of our work. We got a 'Thanks but no thanks' letter." 
Joshua Ramus, a New York-based partner of Mr. Koolhaas, said that he submitted a statement of interest, but that "we weren't selected."
That left four architects in the running: Richard Meier of New York, Fumihiko Maki of Tokyo, Norman Foster of London and Kevin Roche of Hamden, Conn. All are known for creating sleek Modernist buildings.
Mr. Venturi said by telephone from Switzerland that he assumed his lack of experience with skyscrapers would have hurt his chances. His wife and design partner, Denise Scott Brown, added: "You get attached to what you design, and then you're terribly disappointed."
Told who the four finalists were, Ms. Scott Brown said: "We made the right decision. If they want those people, they wouldn't want us."
Employees of Mr. Roche and Mr. Foster said they were not at liberty to discuss the competition. The development corporation referred calls to Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, who said she could not comment. But Mr. Maki and Mr. Meier said they were working on designs, which are to be be reviewed in early October.
"It won't be easy to accommodate 900,000 square feet of office and conference space on the site," said Mr. Maki, who is best known for museums in Japan and a cultural center in San Francisco. "But architects are an optimistic species." 
The United Nations site is now occupied by the Robert Moses Playground and a bulky air vent for the Queens-Midtown Tunnel. And some members of the community object to the loss of the playground. But Jeffrey Wiesenfeld, a director of the United Nations Development Corporation, predicted that a proposed land swap would give the community a park far superior to the current one, because "there will be less carbon monoxide." 
That, however, will not solve the problem for the four architects. Mr. Meier, who has designed a pair of new apartment buildings in the West Village but is best known for the Getty Center, his modern acropolis in Los Angeles, said he had considered talking to Mr. Maki, Mr. Roche and Mr. Foster about proposing an alternate site. But he said that the United Nations had not encouraged contact among the architects. "They've gone out of their way to keep each of us in our own stable," he said, adding that each architect had toured the site separately. 
The new building would allow the United Nations to consolidate its staff. Occupants of the 50-year-old Secretariat building would move into the new one while the Secretariat undergoes a badly needed renovation. Later, United Nations offices in a variety of buildings in Midtown would move to the new tower.
Mr. Meier enters the competition with some trepidation. "The energy that goes into the process is enormous, and it's all on our part," he said. "And who knows what they're going to do?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) Architecture

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations; United Nations Development Corp

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (54%) Fred A Bernstein; Richard Meier; Fumihiko Maki; Norman (Lord Foster) Foster; Kevin Roche

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (78%); SWITZERLAND (58%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



497 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Church at a Crossroads And Its Future at Stake

BYLINE:  By GARRY WILLS; Garry Wills is the author of "Why I Am a Catholic" (2002).

 BODY:
A PEOPLE ADRIFT
The Crisis of the Roman Catholic Church in America
By Peter Steinfels
392 pages. Simon & Schuster. $26
 Peter Steinfels is not an alarmist, but a sober and thoughtful religion columnist for The New York Times. He has interviewed people of all the American religions and people on all sides of the issues in his own church, the Roman Catholic one. He treats his fellow believers fairly, and analyzes issues that go far beyond headlines about scandal or coverup. His balance makes all the more unsettling the harsh conclusions he draws, in his quiet voice, from looking at every aspect of Catholic life. They all support the theme of "A People Adrift," which is announced in its opening sentence: "Today the Roman Catholic Church in the United States is on the verge of either an irreversible decline or a thoroughgoing transformation." 
 He does not treat that first alternative as a distant possibility: "American Catholicism, to put it bluntly, is in trouble. Absent an energetic response by Catholic leadership, a soft slide into a kind of nominal Catholicism is quite foreseeable." He continues, "At the outside, there is even the possibility of a sudden collapse, in a single generation or two -- such as has been seen in Ireland and, earlier, in French Canada -- of what appeared to be a virtually impregnable Catholicism." 
Though Mr. Steinfels sifts issues on a wide range of topics -- the replacing of nuns in Catholic schools with lay teachers in parish catechetical sessions, the identity of Catholic higher education and social services, the need for a more inspired liturgy -- he boldly makes questions of sex and gender the center of his concern. Some like to dismiss these as a minor aspect of church life, inflated in importance only by sensation-seekers, but Mr. Steinfels sees a wave of interrelated changes in society's views of gender, the family and reproduction as one of the great axial shifts in history, of the kind that reorient entire cultures. 
This shift affects and is affected by urbanization, professionalization and the postindustrial economy, as well as by new psychological and anthropological insights. He notes that Catholic authorities fought or tried to ignore several of these axial changes in the past -- the scientific revolution, for instance, or the democratic revolution -- and after incurring severe costs, had to catch up with what they had spent immense amounts of misguided energies denying. (They were able to do this, by the way, only because so many Catholics had accepted what the authorities were forbidding them to recognize.)
Catholics have overwhelmingly reflected the shift going on all around them, and are ignoring the Vatican's increasingly shrill orders to pay it no mind. Over 90 percent ignore the papal ban on contraceptives. A priest who had counseled young adults for 23 years told Mr. Steinfels that not once, not ever, did those people raise the subject of contraception with him. Over 60 percent of Catholics favor the ordination of women. More endorse the removal of mandatory celibacy in the male priesthood. As the number of priests falls dramatically, lay ministers have taken over many parish duties -- there are more lay ministers now than priests, and more than 80 percent are women. Women make up a substantial number of qualified theologians in the church. The Catholic Theological Society was founded in 1946 by priests, who alone could be members of it. By 1995 one out of every five members was female, and now the society's new president is a woman. 
Will women be ordained? Mr. Steinfels thinks so, because the alternatives are either a) an impossibility or b) a disgrace: "There are three possible outcomes: Women will be ordained, or the church will render its teaching convincing, or Catholic commitment to equality and justice for half the human race will be in doubt." A sensible leadership would be thinking of careful steps to make the transition -- trial ministries, changes in the seminaries, theological reflection on the meaning of the axial shift (instead of ineffectual bans on addressing it). But Vatican officials try to pretend the shift is not occurring, and to prevent discussion of what is settled (but only in their own minds). The Vatican dismisses the vast social change as a scatter of pesty little isolated fires, to be sluiced down with ancient formulas.
Mr. Steinfels calls this a Maginot line approach, referring to the ineffectual fortifications built on the eastern frontier of France before World War II. After the people have swept around and past the old fortifications, Rome says they will be called back and reassembled outside the fortif the fort is just strengthened with new rigidity. The result, as Mr. Steinfels carefully documents, has been a disjunction between the life of the church and its titular directors. "Bishops and priests have largely lost whatever limited sway they ever had in the United States over Catholic voters, politicians, and pundits, let alone over Catholic participation in intellectual life, the fine arts, or popular entertainment." 
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago, who died in 1996 and is Mr. Steinfels's hero in this book, tried to begin healing the divisions among Catholics, lay and clerical, left and right, by establishing a Common Ground Initiative three months before his death with respected figures from all parts of the church. But the initiative was crushed by Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, who said that one cannot have dialogue in a church where all matters are settled by longstanding authority. It would later become clear that Cardinal Law did not believe in dialogue with victims of priestly abuse, either. That discovery, which is what many people first learned about Cardinal Law, was merely the tip of an iceberg whose whole underwater shape is traced in this disturbing book.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Steinfels (Photo by Haig Manoogian/Simon & Schuster)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); SCANDALS (76%); LITERATURE (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); URBANIZATION (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (61%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: WILLS, GARRY; STEINFELS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (79%)

TITLE: PEOPLE ADRIFT, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



498 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2084 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Ending For Music Palace; 
Gehry's Hall to Open (Cue Soaring Strings)

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Lillian Disney, the widow of Walt Disney, favored the music of Lawrence Welk to Beethoven and Brahms. But that didn't deter her in 1987 from giving $50 million for a new music hall in Los Angeles. The gift was intended as not only a tribute to her husband, a classical music lover, but also as an expression of faith in the artistic and creative dynamism of 21st-century Los Angeles.
 "Mother wanted to do something wonderful for Walt, wonderful for the city," recalled Diane Disney Miller, the Disneys' lone surviving child. 
 Mrs. Disney's wish is now about to be fulfilled. Almost complete, the Walt Disney Concert Hall is set to open in October -- six years later than originally planned -- with a set of three gala evenings, glittering gatherings of Los Angeles Philharmonic seat holders and musicians, movie stars and entertainers, and the philanthropists who were instrumental in bringing the hall about. They will come to Los Angeles to celebrate not only the concert hall but in many ways the city itself -- for having finally built it. For this is a grand and expensive project that almost never happened. 
Hopes were naturally high when, more than a decade ago, Frank Gehry, the locally based architect, was selected from a field of 72 international competitors to design the concert hall, on Grand Avenue, atop Bunker Hill. The building, audacious with its swooping curves, was set to dominate downtown Los Angeles and to do for the city what the Opera House did for Sydney, Australia, and what Mr. Gehry's own Guggenheim museum was about to do for Bilbao, Spain. To its creators, the hall was to be as emblematic of Los Angeles as the Hollywood sign.
But the project came close to collapse from 1994 to 1996. Spiraling costs, poor management, disagreements over the complex design and California's troubled economy led to a halt in construction. "By 1996 this project was dead, ready to be buried," said Eli Broad, the billionaire businessman and philanthropist and a top power broker in the city, who helped salvage it. "People around town thought it was a black hole that would never be built."
The gala evenings in October will give the drama perhaps a fitting Hollywood ending (though little money for the hall came from Hollywood itself). Even more, the opening may give the city not just a cultural lift but a psychological one as well.
"What does this do for the city?" said Esa-Pekka Salonen, the Finnish-born music director of the Philharmonic, a tousle-haired and still boyish figure at 45. "I'm quite amused by the fact that the hottest ticket in L.A. is a classical music/architectural event, not some Hollywood thing. I'm going to enjoy that. It won't happen again."
The opening may also help alleviate the city's feeling of inferiority to New York, that it is a backwater of the arts. "In a project this size, which is always complicated and involves politics, it's impressive that people willed this to happen, and happen in the right way," said Deborah Borda, who was executive director of the New York Philharmonic for nine seasons and is now the executive director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. "It's something New York hasn't pulled off. The New York Philharmonic wanted to build a new hall at Lincoln Center. That seems like it's not happening."
How the Walt Disney Concert Hall was saved involved a handful of this city's political and cultural elite who came in when the project was on the ropes. These included former Mayor Richard J. Riordan, Mr. Broad, Ms. Miller, Andrea Van de Kamp, who is a former chairwoman of the Music Center and now chairwoman of Sotheby's on the West Coast, and Zev Yaroslavsky, a powerful county supervisor.
It didn't help that two of the central players, Mr. Broad and Mr. Gehry, both strong willed, had a strained relationship. In the mid-1980's, Mr. Broad hired Mr. Gehry to build a glass-and-steel mansion on a Brentwood hilltop. When the project dragged on, Mr. Broad dismissed Mr. Gehry and brought in another architect. Mr. Gehry disowned the house, but Mr. Broad still refers to it as his Frank Gehry house.
The two men clashed again after Mr. Broad took charge of the Disney Hall project. (Mr. Broad, who is chairman of Sun America, a financial services company, made his fortune building tract homes.)
Troubled by Disney Hall's high costs, Mr. Broad, who is one of the top art collectors in the nation, sought to bring in an "executive architect" in 1997 to complete Mr. Gehry's plans. Mr. Gehry sent in an angry resignation letter. Ms. Miller came in and allocated $14 million of Disney family funds for Mr. Gehry to complete his working drawings. Mr. Gehry remained. He said in an interview: "For a whole day I thought it was over. Had they gone that route, this building never would have been built." He said that "the complexity of the shapes" were "not normal" for an outside architect to complete. In an interview, Mr. Broad called Mr. Gehry "brilliant" and left it at that.

A Bright Beginning
The project began, of course, with the best of intentions.
Ms. Miller said that her mother, who died in 1997 at 98, had wanted to build "something wonderful" in her husband's name. (Walt Disney died in 1966 at age 65.) "Music was part of everything Dad did," Ms. Miller said. The family often attended concerts at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, which is across the street from Disney Hall, and contributed money to it, Ms. Miller said. But the acoustics at the pavilion, a sprawling 3,086-seat multipurpose facility, were poorly suited for symphonic music. Philharmonic musicians often complained that their music sounded better at concert halls outside Los Angeles.
Ms. Miller said she suggested a new concert hall to her mother. "The land was there," she said. "Unless somebody did something, it would be used for a big parking garage or something like that."
Mr. Gehry won the design competition in 1989, envisioning a sleek 367,000-square-foot concert hall covering one square block, at First and Grand Streets, in an area that is the closest thing to a cultural enclave that Los Angeles has. Only steps away is the Ahmanson Theater and the Mark Taper Forum and the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. Nearby is the Museum of Contemporary Art (MOCA) and the Colburn School of Performing Arts, as well as one of the city's most significant new works of architecture, the soaring Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels, designed by the Spanish architect Jose Rafael Moneo. County officials now view the 2,265-seat Disney Hall as the centerpiece of the renaissance of downtown Los Angeles and a major draw for tourists.

The Albatross Years
Business leaders and others involved in the project said that almost from the outset costs began rising out of control and that no one person seemed in charge of overseeing construction. Originally expected to cost $110 million and to open in 1997, the hall now has a price tag of $274 million. Mrs. Disney's gift of $50 million was eaten up by the high costs of architectural drawings and consultants. Coupled with the city's economic downturn in the early 90's and a failure by the Philharmonic to shape a full-fledged fund-raising effort, money for the project drained away quickly.
Mr. Broad said years later that what began with so much promise was "transformed into a symbol of discord and civic apathy."
"Everyone abandoned it," he said in an interview. "It was an orphan. No one felt responsible for anything."
By all accounts, the leadership of the Philharmonic and the Music Center at the time seemed unable to deal with the financial crisis facing Disney Hall.
Ms. Miller, the Disneys' daughter, was stunned. "I thought everything was going beautifully," she said. "I was sitting up in Napa enjoying my life and then I got a call. The bad news hit me between the eyes. It was a terrible feeling."
Complicating the issue was the aftermath of the Los Angeles riots in 1992, which left locals and tourists afraid to drive downtown at night. Letters to the editor began appearing in The Los Angeles Times about why a costly concert hall, appealing to an elite audience, was necessary at a time the city and state were facing financial trouble and the social fabric of Los Angeles was fraying. 
"This was my big concern," Mr. Salonen said in an interview. "This whole project seemed to be sinking into the mud of superficial sociological and sociocultural debate. People had totally missed the point. Frank's design is not an elitist statement at all. Quite the contrary. It's a building that's open to everybody and belongs to everybody."
This criticism faded. In fact, several political leaders strongly supported the hall. One was Mr. Yaroslavsky, today one of five county supervisors and formerly a powerful city councilman representing parts of the West Side and the San Fernando Valley. He said he became aware of the financial crisis facing Disney Hall in 1995. At the time, Los Angeles County had provided bond financing for a big parking garage underneath the concert hall. The garage had been built, but not the hall.
Mr. Yaroslavksy, who is an amateur oboe player and adores classical music, recalled that Sally Reed, the county's chief administrative officer at the time, had said that the county had to start paying off its bonds and that the Disney Hall project was comatose. " 'It's breaking the bank -- we ought to pull the plug,' that's what I was told," Mr. Yaroslavsky said. " 'Let's concede the hall will not be built, and we'll find some other use for the property.' "
"I looked at her and said, 'That's not possible,' " Mr. Yaroslavsky said. " 'We cannot pull the plug. We'll never have an opportunity to build another concert hall.' I said, 'We've been through the riots, an earthquake, the recession and now this. It's like hoisting the white flag and saying the civic leadership of Los Angeles can't bring the pony home.' I said, 'Don't pull the plug.' "

Saving the Day
Mr. Yaroslavksy and Gloria Molina, another county superviser, representing downtown Los Angeles, went to Mayor Riordan and asked him to help raise private financing for the hall. "The fact is, we went to Dick not so much as the mayor but someone who had connections in the billionaire world, to put it bluntly," Mr. Yaroslavksy said. 
Mr. Riordan went to his friend Mr. Broad, who is arguably the top power broker in Los Angeles and a force in the philanthropic community. Mr. Broad recalled saying: "We can't let this disappear. It will show the world everything that's wrong with this city." He then began an intense fund-raising effort, teaming with with Ms. Van de Kamp, the chairwoman of the Music Center at the time. Mr. Broad and his wife, Edye, donated $5 million. So did Mayor Riordan and his wife, Nancy. The Disney foundation eventually donated another $25 million on top of Mrs. Disney's original gift of $50 million. Roy E. Disney, a nephew of Walt Disney and a top Disney executive, and his wife, Patty, also donated $5 million. Several people involved in the negotiations said that longstanding tensions in the Disney family had been overcome to create the hall.
Another top contributor was Ron Burkle, a billionaire businessman who is the founder and managing partner of the Yucaipa Companies, a private investment firm based in Southern California. He gave $15 million. So did the State of California.
Money from Hollywood is largely missing from the Disney Hall list. One reason cited by Mr. Broad and others is that corporations owning Hollywood studios -- Viacom, News Corporation, Sony, AOL Time Warner and others -- were loath to contribute to a concert hall named after a prime competitor. Another reason may be historical. The music and opera world in downtown Los Angeles was by tradition supported by the old money of Pasadena and Hancock Park. The newer money of the entertainment business has traditionally felt excluded. 
Mr. Gehry said that his singular goal, to make an intimate and comfortable concert hall, is actually a tribute to Mrs. Disney. The flowery and colorful carpeting and seats are improbably informal and cheerful for an auditorium. 
"She didn't ask for anything," Mr. Gehry said. "I know she did not love the exterior of the hall. She said she didn't understand it. But she said, 'You guys know better than me.' I wanted to please her. She loved flowers and gardens. I said: 'Lilly, I'm going to make you a beautiful garden outside the hall and make the seats look like a garden. The carpet, too.' She loved that. It really makes the feeling of the hall. It's sad she'll never see it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The metal-clad exterior of Frank Gehry's new Walt Disney Concert Hall on Bunker Hill, in downtown Los Angeles, due to open in October. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. E5); Fifteen years in the making, the Walt Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles prepares for its opening. Above, swirling forms typical of its architect, Frank Gehry. Right, the auditorium. Far right, curves continue into the public spaces. (Photographs by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (64%) MUSIC; DISNEY, WALT, CONCERT HALL (LOS ANGELES) 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (90%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%); ELI BROAD (57%) DISNEY, WALT (1901-66); DISNEY, LILLIAN; GEHRY, FRANK; WEINRAUB, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (73%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (73%); SPAIN (68%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



499 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: Town of Worn Bootstraps Lifts Itself Up 

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Va. 

 BODY:
EARLY next month, a dozen families whose tar-paper shacks lack even running water will move into new homes here with heat, flush toilets and hot showers. "It's going to be like a new world to me," said Solomon Burton, 74, who has spent decades hauling water in a bucket from a hand pump in his front yard. His privy sits beyond a sandy lane that winds through a low swale known as the Bottom.
 Mr. Burton, who has spent most of his life working in sawmills and chicken plants, will occupy one of the 40 subsidized rental units in Bayview Rural Village, a new development of 80 free-standing houses just across the road from the old town. Some of the new houses will be owner-occupied, some will be multifamily rentals; all will be built by a local nonprofit group with $7 million in federal and state money, which also paid for a sewage plant. The local group, which owns 158 acres of fertile flat fields, has centered the first houses around a one-acre irrigation pond, nicknamed Lake Bayview by residents who love to watch the birds there. It also tapped $3 million in economic development money to build a barn and a greenhouse, as well as a center for job training and child care that has just gotten under way. 
 All of this is for families of low or moderate income that were left behind by a modern era that no longer needed their labor and didn't value their history.
The original village of 114 is at the tip of Virginia's Eastern Shore, with the Chesapeake Bay on one side and the Atlantic on the other. Residents remember when it was a thriving agrarian community with a post office and stores, and when the railroad was busy with farmers shipping produce up and down the East Coast.
The people of Bayview, most of them related by marriage or blood, are descended from freed slaves. Alice Coles, 52, the executive director of the nonprofit group, Bayview Citizens for Social Justice, said one of her ancestors was a man "shipped here from Africa in the early 1700's and sold at the trading post in York County." She lives in one of the few houses that already had indoor plumbing, but she is applying for a lease-purchase mortgage on a three-bedroom house in the new development for $75,000.
As a child, she picked potatoes with her seven brothers and sisters for 10 cents a bag. "Mother would say, when we made $100, she'd make us a dress," she said.
Those were the good days, when the big farmhouses had high-pitched roofs and screened porches, and when it was possible to get enough work to pay the rent, maybe even buy a house. People here picked vegetables and worked in the canneries, making ketchup or grading beans. They picked crabs and gutted chickens.
Ms. Coles, who has at one time or another done all those jobs, blamed government subsidies and what some might call progress for the area's decline.
"They paid farmers not to plant -- or what to plant, like soybeans and barley," she said. "And harvesting machines put people out of work." The canning companies and seafood processing plants have closed one by one, as oysters and clams dwindled in the polluted bay, and as it became less profitable to grow tomatoes and green beans.
Now retirement houses, second homes and golf courses are spreading in the town of Cape Charles on the bay, for those who can afford the $14 round trip from Norfolk through the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel. But down the back roads, away from the water, half the people are barely literate, and the average income is $9,000 a year.
Ten years ago, only 6 of Bayview's 52 families lived in houses with running water. The rest were in shacks with privies that, after a rain, polluted their shallow wells. Fires sparked by faulty wiring or overturned oil lamps have killed 11 residents in the past 25 years.
"The fire engine couldn't get back down the road, and there wasn't enough water in the wells," said Robert Graves, 58, who lives in a house with no plumbing in nearby Eastville. He, too, will be moving to Bayview Rural Village next month.
"The only thing I'm carrying out of my house is my computer and my television," said Mr. Graves, who has worked as a gospel singer, a nurse's aide and a supervisor in a seafood packing plant. "The rest is just a bunch of hand-me-downs," he said, "and I've been hand-me-downed all my life."
Mr. Graves will move into a one-bedroom unit in a three-family house that resembles, in its modest way, the farmhouses the white landowners used to own, set in the middle of fields where he, like Ms. Coles, picked potatoes and tomatoes. Betty Smith, 73, and her daughter, Clara Smith, 51, are leaving a leaky shack with broken plumbing in nearby Cheriton to rent a two-bedroom apartment. Rents for these units will not exceed a third of the residents' income. Single-family houses will cost $65,000 to $80,000.
All of this has grown out of 10 years of relentless work by a small band of Bayview residents. It was Ms. Coles and her cousin Cozzie Lockwood who went door to door rallying their neighbors when they heard about plans to build a state prison on the very land where the new homes now stand. "The prison was like an eye-opener," said Ms. Lockwood, the president of Bayview Citizens, who grew up here in a house with no running water.
County officials argued that the prison would provide more than 500 jobs to Northampton County, one of the poorest counties in the state, but Ms. Coles recalls jumping up to say: "These jobs are not going to go to our people. They don't have the training."
Ms. Coles had learned typing and shorthand in high school, hoping to get a secretarial job at a new Perdue chicken plant in Accomac. She said racism kept her trimming chicken livers for $2.03 an hour.
The proposed penitentiary would have taken up a square mile of land. Cape Charles is barely two miles from the proposed site, and residents there feared a drop in real estate values and tourism. Environmentalists questioned the prison's impact on a fragile ecosystem, not to mention the lights that would have illuminated the night sky.
When opponents of the prison went to Richmond to testify before the legislature, Ms. Coles decided to tell her story. She recalls that Bill Parr, a local real estate agent, told her, "They don't want to listen to my facts and figures."
Her Uncle Eli Coles was a preacher. In front of the legislators she got up and delivered a sermon of her own, about how her people had come from slavery to Bayview, how they had worked the fields and taken care of their white masters. "I said: 'We bathed your children -- we took in your wash. And now you are leaving us to rot.' "
The prison plan was defeated in the spring of 1995, but the land was still for sale.
"If we left it open," said Ms. Coles, sitting on her screened porch, "somebody was going to come in and build a smelly old fish plant or condos."
Either way, it wouldn't provide new homes for those still living in shanties. As a result, the group incorporated in 1998 as Bayview Citizens for Social Justice and started to rebuild the village.
Ms. Coles tapped into the expertise of people she had met while opposing the prison. Stephen N. Parker, who was then working for the Nature Conservancy to protect 45,000 acres of barrier islands a few miles from Bayview, helped her group apply for a $20,000 grant from the Environmental Protection Agency to assess the pollution in their wells.
And then the conservancy began mustering the support that would enable the group to buy 158 acres of land. Ms. Coles approached Maurice Cox, an architect then working with William McDonough at the University of Virginia on sustainable design.
Mr. Cox and his wife, Giovanna Galfione, also an architect, were shocked when they arrived in 1997. "The outhouses, the old rusted hand pumps," Mr. Cox said. He said Ms. Coles admonished him: "You're the ones who are surprised. We've been living in it."
Mr. Cox, who is now the mayor of Charlottesville, Va., urged them to deal with the water issues first. The group got a grant to dig three deep wells and put in new pit privies.
Residents then started a huge cleanup. "We collected 27,000 pounds of trash on Dec. 13, 1997," Mr. Cox said, consulting a report his students wrote on Bayview. "Then we demolished some burned-out buildings."
When the county was slow to approve permits for new wells, Ms. Coles called in the N.A.A.C.P., which arranged for public and private officials to visit Bayview and publicized the town's primitive conditions. Among the results was an avalanche of federal, state and private financing. (Other rural communities are benefiting as well: the Agriculture Department's Rural Development office says aid to impoverished communities doubled from 1995 to 2002, to a total of $13 billion.)
As Bayview got clean water and new privies, the residents began to think about a new community to go with them.
"They said the houses weren't worth bringing water to," Mr. Cox said. It was Mr. Cox who encouraged the residents of Bayview to remember their agricultural past.
One community garden between the houses with running water owned by Ms. Coles and Ms. Lockwood evolved into a communal planting of 10 acres of sweet potatoes across the road.
Now the residents who plan to move in can imagine running their own potato chip factory and processing their own chili pepper sauce. But that may be premature. The community farm is still planted by hand and worked with primitive equipment. Some fields, planted late this spring in cold rain, are full of tall grass and overgrown zucchini. They began selling the zucchini for $12 a half bushel, but as their crop came in the price fell to $6.
"And once the market gets so low, they won't even take them," said Mike Davis, 33, Bayview's farm manager.
It would be easy to turn over the zucchini crop and plant fall beans -- if they had a tractor and a plow.
The okra looks fine, and the summer beans are ripening. But they could be lost in the weeds without care.
Ms. Coles has the same worry about her flock. "If we don't create jobs here and people can't pay the rent," she asked, "then where will they go?" But she remains confident. She has just applied for $2 million in aid from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, "to help with the farm and economic opportunities," she said. And her group is experimenting with hot peppers, both red and green, to make a hot sauce.
She is teaching her neighbors to use computers and encouraging them to go back to school. She sees the new communities around Cape Charles as a gold mine for jobs. "But we have to retrain and educate our people," she said.
Mr. Parker isn't worried. "I'm betting my money on Bayview," he said. "I've watched them overcome hundreds, even thousands of obstacles. Now they're fledged and fully formed."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption last Thursday about low-income residents of Bayview, Va., who are finally moving into modern houses misidentified the device that one of them, Solomon Burton, has been using as an outdoor water source; though it resembles the hand pump he used for years, it is a freeze-proof hydrant.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FIELD OF RENEWED DREAMS -- Next month, new houses will welcome some of the poorest residents on Virginia's Eastern Shore, thanks to a group headed by Alice Coles, top. Above left, Solomon Burton will no longer have to haul water from a hand pump. Above right, Clara Smith can replace her peeling home. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times; top, Mike Heffner for The New York Times)(pg. F1); LOOK HOMEWARD -- Alice Coles puts crape myrtle on the grave of a freed slave in a nearby town. The new development is just a mile's walk from the burial ground.; FROM HUMBLE BEGINNINGS -- Mike Davis, top, picks okra, one of the crops that are expected to unite Bayview. New homes like the one under construction here will cost $65,000 to $80,000. Bottom left, Clara Smith, left, and her mother, Betty, who have had no running water since their pump broke two years ago, are getting a new home. Bottom right, Betty Smith stands in her kitchen, where she heats buckets of water. And Robert Graves, soon to move in, checks a light. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times; center right, Mike Heffner for The New York Times)(pg. F7) Map of Virginia highlighting Bayview. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (75%); POULTRY PROCESSING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); POULTRY (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (53%) Housing; Geographic Profiles; Slavery; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Housing; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Blacks

PERSON: Anne Raver

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Bayview (Va); Virginia; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



500 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
No More Cursing The Dark

BYLINE:  By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
THE 36-unit Art Deco building at 895 Park Avenue has everything you would expect in a luxury co-op: 24-hour concierge, manned elevators, a wine cellar, squash courts and a gym. In a few months it can boast another amenity: a backup power generator.
 "When you consider what they are paying for maintenance and that kind of living, they expect not to be inconvenienced," said Joseph Walsh, an agent at Gumley Haft, which manages 895 Park Avenue, where tenants pay fees starting at $5,000 per month. Many residents, worried about elderly and disabled neighbors, initially considered a generator after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 Across the region affected by last week's big blackout, co-op boards, homeowners and landlords were contemplating whether backup juice was the next must-have comfort. At home improvement chains like the Home Depot and Lowe's, stores reported sales of thousands of portable generators. On Long Island, Gerard Turza, owner of GT Power Systems, a seller of generators, said his phones hadn't stopped ringing since Thursday night. Kohler Power Systems, a maker of high-end generators, plans to double its production of residential systems over the next 90 days, said Mark Repp, the director of marketing. 
It's not surprising that in the immediate aftermath of a blackout affecting tens of millions of people, homeowners would demand emergency power supplies. But this recent power loss may have marked a turning point that could make generators, like home computers, alarm systems and garage door openers before them, into commonplace home appliances.
Over the last few years, homeowners have been subjected to a string of threats -- perceived and real -- to their electric supply. Starting in 1999, some of the more vigilant (or paranoid) bought generators to ride out the Y2K computer bug. After last winter's snow and cold, homeowners installed backups to keep refrigerators and lights humming during storm blackouts. Then the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks introduced the possibility that malefactors would tamper with the nation's fundamental infrastructure. Add to that a lifestyle of increasing dependence on electronic devices, and you have a population determined not to lose power. 
"We live in an electronic world," said Craig Menear, senior vice president for merchandising of construction products at the Home Depot. "More and more people will start to look at a generator as not a 'nice to have,' but as a 'I really would like to have one in my home.' "
Mike Janz, vice president and partner at Gen Power Products Inc., a generator distributor outside Detroit, said sales of residential generators have grown about 40 percent since 2000. Another factor driving sales, he said, is an aging baby boomer population that may demand continuous electricity to operate health care equipment at home. 
Still, most homes suffered through last week's blackout in the dark. And those with generators created a starkly visible caste system of electric haves and have-nots. Perhaps the most striking contrast was in Chelsea, where the 2,820-unit Penn South co-op was an oasis of blazing lights and air-conditioning, energized by an independent plant built in 1986 that removed the building from the nation's power grid.
Walter Mankoff, a 73-year-old retired union research director, was waiting in his doctor's office for a routine appointment when the lights went out. Heading to his two-bedroom apartment at Penn South, a middle-income complex, he announced to his fellow patients, in a stage whisper, "I'm going home to cool off."
In nearby buildings, there was "definitely generator envy," said Jim O'Connor, executive vice president of Residential Management Group, a unit of Prudential Douglas Elliman that manages apartment buildings around the city. Mr. O'Connor lives in London Terrace, another large complex of buildings across the street from Penn South.
Some Penn South residents felt guilty. Deborah Harada, a 48-year-old executive assistant, did not suffer many of the inconveniences endured by her coworkers and friends. "I was a little uneasy about enjoying it," said Ms. Harada. 
Many residents appeared to revel in their good fortune. "It was sort of appalling to me," Ms. Harada said. "Everyone was doing their laundry. There was the mayor and governor asking us to conserve, and the air-conditioning was on in the lobby the whole time." On Friday, Ms. Harada invited a friend over to take a shower. 
In some suburban communities, those with backup power used it as an excuse to throw a "generator party." Sean Patrick, a public relations executive who lives in a suburb of Detroit with his wife and three sons, fired up a portable generator and invited two other families to grill hamburgers and hot dogs in his backyard. "It was an adventure," Mr. Patrick said. "When you have the tools, an adventure is fun."
The blackout made converts of some homeowners. When Norbert Weissberg, a 69-year-old private investor, bought a five-bedroom house in East Hampton with his wife, Judith, last year, they thought they would have no use for the 9-by-5-foot generator sitting behind the tennis court. After failing to sell "the monster," as they called it, they tried to give it away. When a maintenance man offered to sell them a $600-a-year contract, they turned him down. 
Luckily, the generator worked on Thursday night. The couple cooked dinner on their electric stove and read in their fully lighted living room. Now, said Mr. Weissberg, the generator is "our favorite machine." On Friday, he called the maintenance firm to secure a contract. 
Some homeowners suffered the heartache of generators that didn't work. "I know of someone who had a $16,000 generator put in just a few years ago," said Diane Saatchi, president of Dayton-Halstead, a real estate firm in the Hamptons. "When they went to use it this week, it wasn't working."
Stuart Epstein, owner of Devlin McNiff, a real estate firm in East Hampton, said he got calls on Thursday and Friday from "tenants in expensive rentals" who "were outraged that they didn't have power." He said he expected more homeowners to install generators.
In Manhattan, brokers who specialize in selling luxury apartments said new developments should offer the perk of lights, elevators and water even if the rest of the world languishes in the dark. "I absolutely think that if you're going to build a tower you have the responsibility to have at least one elevator operative under any circumstances," said Vals Osborne, a broker with Stribling & Associates. "People are paying a fortune for these apartments."
Stefan Rossi, director of operations at the Trump Organization, said five of its luxury buildings had enough backup generator power to operate one elevator, emergency lights in the hallways and the water pumps. Many Manhattan high-rise residents were not only in the dark but without water, too.
The developers of the condominium apartments at AOL Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle, where a penthouse recently sold for more than $40 million, said backup generators would operate three elevators, the apartment intercom system and lights in the corridors. Because apartments start 24 stories above ground in one tower and 37 stories above ground in another, "we felt that it's important that the elevators be connected at all times," said Bruce Warwick, president of Columbus Center LLC, the project developer.
Similarly, a spokesman for Vornado Realty Trust, which is developing 105 luxury apartments starting on the 32nd floor atop the headquarters of Bloomberg L.P., said it would install a backup generator that would operate an elevator, water pumps and hallway lights during any electrical failure. 
The New York City building code generally requires emergency backup power in office buildings and hotels that were built after 1968. Any apartment building erected after that year is required only to supply battery-powered emergency lights in hallways and stairwells. Many of those expired before dark last week. A spokeswoman for the Department of Buildings said the agency was considering whether it should require such lighting in all buildings. Last week, thousands of residents climbed the stairs with only the light of their cellphones to guide them.
Installing generators in existing buildings could be prohibitively expensive. Michael Duryea, associate director of management at Brown Harris Stevens, a real estate firm that manages 150 mostly high-end buildings around the city, said it could cost about $400,000 to install a generator, and then another $30,000 a year to maintain it. Another problem is where to put the multiton machines, along with where to store the fuel needed to operate them.
Joel Hirschtritt, co-op board president at 1185 Park Avenue, a 176-unit prewar luxury co-op building on the Upper East Side that went without power for more than 24 hours last week, said generators were not "a luxury that people would expect."
"I don't know that it's economically feasible," he said. 
In older co-ops, many tenants are elderly residents who live on fixed incomes. "Elderly people in these luxury co-op buildings had a miserable time," said Daniela Kunen, a broker in Douglas Elliman's Upper East Side office. But many of them could not afford an increase in their annual maintenance payments. 
Some smaller buildings were considering cheaper alternatives. Charlie Saunders, treasurer of the board at 1945 Seventh Avenue, a 10-unit gray stone apartment building in Harlem, said a portable generator could provide power for temporary lighting and the building's heating system should a blackout occur during the winter.
Then there are those who found better solutions to survive a blackout. Chuck Doersam, a 46-year-old contractor who lives on Fire Island, said he has weathered several storms and hurricanes with his portable generator. But last Thursday, it was buried in a tool shed. So Mr. Doersam made other plans: he went fishing. He left with three pals at midnight. When they returned at 8 the next night with 150 pounds of bluefin, albacore and mahi-mahi, the power had returned. 

Let There Be Light. And a Jacuzzi.
THE juice you need depends on whether you want a generator to keep milk cold or to heat the pool.
The Home Depot's portable generator ($399) operates four 75-watt lamps, a refrigerator and a radio for two hours on three quarts of gasoline. Lowe's offers a five-gallon gasoline-powered 5,550-watt generator ($659), which should keep a refrigerator, four lamps, a television and a radio running for 11 hours.
Homeowners should set up generators outside their houses, run a 12-gauge extension cord indoors and plug appliances into a power strip.
Dealers like GT Power Systems in Wainscott, N.Y., sell an even more powerful 100-gallon propane generator. It will run heat, water pumps, refrigerators and 12 75-watt lamps for three days. The cost: $8,000 to install, plus a $500 annual maintenance fee.
Gerard Turza, the owner of GT Power, said he recently installed a $90,000 system in a 30,000-square-foot house. With its 1,100-gallon diesel fuel tank, the generator can keep virtually everything in and around a house -- lights, air-conditioning, pool heater, Jacuzzi -- working for up to eight days. MOTOKO RICH

GRAPHIC: Photos: OFF THE GRID -- Gerard Turza, of GT Power Systems on Long Island, with his own generator; left, emergency lights in Midtown Manhattan during the blackout. (Photos by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times; left, Louis Lanzano/Associated Press)(pg. F9); LIGHT OASIS -- Penn South, in Chelsea, uses its own power plant, blackout or no. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); AGING TRENDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOME SECURITY (74%); TERRORISM (74%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); CITIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Housing; Cooperatives

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (85%); KOHLER CO (68%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (85%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (85%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (68%); SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (68%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



501 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
Price of Treasuries Tumbles On Fear of Return of Inflation

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The 10-year Treasury note had its biggest decline in a week in New York trading yesterday on speculation that job and manufacturing reports today would provide evidence of faster economic growth, and thus help ignite inflation. 
 Investor concern that inflation, which erodes the value of a bond's fixed payments, will accelerate has contributed to the worst two-month period for government debt in at least 20 years. H. Alfred Broaddus Jr., president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., told CNBC that the economy had a good chance of growing at a 4 percent rate through 2004. 
 Sharon Stark, chief fixed-income strategist at the brokerage arm of Legg Mason in Baltimore, which oversees $192 billion in assets, said, "I'm not real confident rates are going to head back down." 
The 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32 yesterday, to a price of 98 18/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.43 percent from 4.36 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 18/32 yesterday, to 101 12/32. The bond's yield jumped to 5.28 percent from 5.24 percent on Tuesday.
Treasuries fell overnight before rising in early trading in New York when the Mortgage Bankers Association of America said applications for mortgages fell for a second consecutive week to the lowest in more than a year amid rising mortgage rates. Government debt resumed its decline after the comments by Mr. Broaddus. 
"Things look a little stronger and give me at least a little bit more confidence in the forecast that growth is going to pick up," said Mr. Broaddus, a voting member of the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee that sets monetary policy.
Mr. Broaddus also played down the Fed's comments in May about the threat of deflation, or a general decline in prices. Those comments helped push the yield on the 10-year note in June to the lowest level since 1958. 
"We were simply trying to say that we recognize that, that we were prepared to deal with it," he said. "The markets interpreted that one way." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (71%); LEGG MASON INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



502 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Fed Official Says Interest Rates Can Stay Low Till Economy Rises 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve can keep interest rates low until the United States economy more closely approaches full capacity, J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., said yesterday.
 The output gap, which measures unused labor and production capacity, is particularly wide right now, meaning the economy can potentially grow quickly without generating inflation. 
 "Until actual growth in demand accelerates and allows this gap between the potential level of growth in the economy and the actual level to close, we're going to have a situation where I think the Fed can probably remain quite accommodative" in its monetary policy, Mr. Broaddus said on CNBC television.
Mr. Broaddus, who is a voting member of the Fed committee that sets interest rates, added that he was confident that growth would accelerate in the months ahead.
"I don't want to overstate it -- we're still watching this very closely," he said, "but at least as far as many of the key recent numbers are concerned things look a little stronger." 
Among the positives, Mr. Broaddus cited retail sales, which rose 1.4 percent in July, and Tuesday's "really strong" housing starts figures for July, which rose to a 17-year high.
He said the main head wind remained the labor market. 
"We have not seen the pickup in employment we really need to see to be confident this expansion really has lasting momentum," Mr. Broaddus said.
He acknowledged there was a downside to one feature of the recovery -- robust productivity growth, as companies have been able to meet demand with existing workers instead of hiring new ones.
"Rising productivity growth, which is longer-term good news, has in a sense produced a problem, because it has been a factor retarding job growth," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RETAIL SALES (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRODUCTION; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

PERSON: BROADDUS, J ALFRED JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



503 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO FALLS. The euro declined after a report showed that France's economy contracted in the second quarter, adding to concern the euro region is on the verge of recession. In New York, the euro fell to $1.1122 from $1.1128.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since March 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



504 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Women are less likely to negotiate, and it can be costly to them.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and a co-editor of The Journal of the European Economic Association. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
MARS doesn't mind negotiating and is confident he deserves more; Venus is satisfied with what she is offered, unsure of what she deserves and fearful of bargaining. This is the message of "Women Don't Ask," a provocative new book soon to be published by Princeton University Press. 
 The authors, Linda Babcock, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University and a leading scholar of negotiations, and Sara Laschever, a freelance writer, have teamed up to produce a highly readable, thoroughly researched and important book. 
 Although the book is occasionally prone to sweeping gender generalizations, its central theme has much to it: women are far less likely than men to initiate a negotiation. 
One of Professor Babcock's surveys, for example, found that half of men had started a negotiation within the previous two weeks, while half of women had started their most recent negotiation more than four weeks earlier. Most women did not anticipate negotiating again for another month, while half of men expected to within a week. 
In another survey, 20 percent of women said they never negotiated. 
Women's reluctance to negotiate arises even when it comes to commonly negotiated items like automobiles. According to a survey by the Dohring Company, for example, women are 40 percent more likely than men to accept the first car price a dealer offers. 
Not only do women shun negotiations, the authors also point to evidence that women ask for less when they make the all-important opening offer, and then concede too quickly. 
Why? Professor Babcock and Ms. Laschever offer several explanations. Men see situations as adaptable; women see them as unchangeable. Men use metaphors like "winning a ballgame" to describe negotiating; women use metaphors like "going to the dentist." Women are "more likely than men to think that simply working hard and doing a good job will earn them success and advancement." 
According to the authors, women are expected to be selfless and nurturing, men selfish and competitive. Women often have lower expectations when it comes to pay. As a result, the authors say women have an "impaired sense of entitlement." 
Whatever the reason, the reluctance to negotiate can have severe economic consequences. 
Consider pay. One study found that male graduates of an Ivy League business school negotiated for a 4.3 percent higher starting salary than they were initially offered, while female graduates negotiated for just 2.7 percent. If the first offer was the same for each, say $35,000, this would amount to a $560 advantage for the men. 
Over time this advantage could snowball. If men negotiated a 2 percent raise each year and women accepted 1 percent, after 40 years the annual salary would be $79,024 for men and $52,987 for women -- nearly a 50 percent gap. The cumulative gap over a career would exceed $440,000. 
Professor Babcock and Ms. Laschever speculate that much if not all of the male-female gap in earnings can be explained by women's aversion to negotiating. 
With the steady decline in union membership -- only 13 percent of women and 16 percent of men are now represented by a union -- and the rise in households headed by women, the reluctance of women to bargain takes on even more significance. 
The book is at its best when it offers advice on how best to bargain and overcome the fear of asking. Opportunity does not always knock -- sometimes, the authors exhort, you have to seize it. 
Interestingly, gender differences in bargaining often disappear when men and women are provided the same information about "going rates" for jobs. 
So one solution is clear: Women should seek out information on how much comparable workers are paid, or what benefits and working arrangements they have negotiated. Not surprisingly, employers are often reluctant to disclose such information. Fortunately, salary data for many occupations can be found at www.bls.gov. 
Likewise, shoppers can find the lowest price for products on the Web before they go to the store. An informed worker or customer is the best bargainer. 
In this weak labor market, I hasten to add two pieces of advice I routinely give my students. First, don't start to negotiate until you have a job offer in hand. Second, do not bargain so well that your employer would be indifferent if you left. 
The authors also emphasize that negotiations can create win-win situations. They give the sage advice to listen to the other side to see how to work together to maximize the pie. Sometimes, solutions can be found that make each side better off. 
Critics will find aspects of "Women Don't Ask" to complain about. Although some of the anecdotes and personal vignettes help illustrate research findings, many are distracting. Moreover, the anecdotes always seem to fit the prevailing gender stereotypes. Surely there must have been one man in the 100-plus interviews who disdained bargaining, or a woman who relished it. 
More seriously, some peripheral evidence cited in the book is less clear-cut than the authors make it out to be. For example, they say one study "tells us that car salespeople, as a group, have learned (or been trained) to make higher first offers in negotiations with women." Yet that study found that black women were quoted significantly lower initial prices than black men, and although white women were quoted $109 more than white men, on average, chance could not be ruled out as the explanation. Over all, the women were quoted the same initial price as the men. 
Still, "Women Don't Ask" should be read by anyone with a fear of negotiating, male or female, and by managers who want a better understanding of how 47 percent of the work force confronts the workplace. 
The book has an even more revolutionary goal: to change the social context in which bargaining takes place, so the world becomes accepting of women who ask. And the subject of negotiations is not limited to the economics -- such topics as bargaining over family chores and safe sex are covered.
Although the authors' reach is likely to extend their grasp, one can hardly blame them for asking.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dina McDonald, right, bought a Saturn last year from Reney Chartier in Monrovia, Calif. Saturn's no-haggle policy can appeal to those who do not like to negotiate. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WOMEN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); LITERATURE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%) WOMEN; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B; BABCOCK, LINDA; LASCHEVER, SARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); WOMEN DON'T ASK (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



505 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Japan Inc. Now Just a Memory, Toshiba Retools Its Image

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
As he tries to remake the Toshiba Corporation, Tadashi Okamura likes to turn to histories of the Meiji era for inspiration. Mr. Okamura, the chief executive of Toshiba, the world's third-largest maker of computer chips, finds sustenance in stories about the late 19th-century reformers who threw off the shackles of Japan's medieval sword fighters to create the first non-Western industrial power.
 "After being isolated so long, these young people had the spirit and energy to go out into the huge world," he said. "The most important thing is that we get back that spirit and energy now." 
 Mr. Okamura's choice of reading material is no accident. Toshiba, like other giant Japanese electronics companies -- Hitachi, Fujitsu, NEC and Mitsubishi Electric -- is under pressure to discard the vestiges of Japan's glory days in the 1980's and early 1990's, when they seemed capable of winning just about every battle they fought in the global economy. Now, Toshiba is trying to recast itself as a leaner, more focused company able to thrive in a new era where the old rules that worked so well for so long no longer apply. 
Toshiba is probably further along than its counterparts in overhauling its varied operations, which are involved in everything from chips to nuclear reactors. But the past clings so tightly to Toshiba and the other electronics giants that many outsiders fear they will never quite manage to catch up with their hard-charging rivals elsewhere.
Such views were expressed by Peter Kirkman, chief investment officer at J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management here, who said: "I am reasonably skeptical about the electronics conglomerates because they have lost competitiveness to other Asian countries and their balance sheets are impaired. They cannot implement restructuring when they employ as many people as the U.S. Army."
Once regarded as technological juggernauts, Toshiba and its brethren have been badly outflanked by more nimble competitors elsewhere in Asia and the United States. The most visible loss is in chips, where Japan now controls 22 percent of the market, down from about 50 percent. 
With pressure to cut prices for chips, computers and other technology products continuing, the customary Japanese business strategy of grabbing market share at all costs has fallen out of favor. To compete, Mr. Okamura and other Japanese electronics executives want to build more profit-driven organizations. But that means further painful cuts in nonessential businesses that have little prospect of being nursed back to health.
Through most of the 1990's, strong demand for chips and other high-technology equipment allowed the companies to put off such restructuring. But once the technology boom collapsed, they had to play catch-up.
Within a year of taking over in 2000, Mr. Okamura began a drastic overhaul, laying off nearly 20,000 Toshiba workers and getting out of the commodity chip business.
"We didn't try to face the problems until the technology bubble burst," Mr. Okamura acknowledged.
Toshiba was not alone. Since 2001, Japan's five big chip makers have cut about 100,000 jobs, or one-tenth of their combined work force. They have sold unprofitable businesses and merged others. Still, over that time they lost 1.6 trillion yen -- about $13.5 billion at current exchange rates. 
Though he had little choice, the move to cut jobs was out of character for Mr. Okamura, 65, a grandfatherly former rugby player. Like most of his contemporaries, he rose through the ranks in the 1960's and 70's, when Japanese companies set the agenda in the electronics industry.
With a soft smile and gentle eyes, he hardly looks like a hatchet man. A 40-year Toshiba veteran who made his name in marketing, Mr. Okamura has tried to soften the blows by favoring early retirements over layoffs and creating internal companies rather than potentially harsher spinoffs.
Partly because of these middle-road efforts, Toshiba and others have only started to see the benefits. NEC barely eked out a profit in the second quarter while Toshiba's losses doubled, to $308 million. For the full year, the big five chip makers expect only narrow profits.
Some analysts say the companies will have to make deeper cuts if the economy and prices do not rebound fast enough. Their progress, or the lack of it, is likely to have broad implications for Japan's place in the global economy. If the electronics giants regain their footing, Japan could get a much-needed boost. As bellwethers of corporate reform, their success would probably encourage companies in other industries to take similarly hard steps. 
But the electronics producers, with their high debt loads and low stock prices, are in a bind. The credit ratings of four of Japan's top five chip makers are just a few notches above junk-bond status. Yet to remain competitive, they must invest billions in new technology that may not pay off for years. Toshiba, for instance, plans to spend 350 billion yen ($2.9 billion) over the next four years to expand the production of next-generation chips.
The move is part of Toshiba's efforts to reshape not just its product line but, perhaps more important, its image as a do-it-all company that makes just about everything associated with electricity. Like Fujitsu, Toshiba has cast off its bulk memory-chip business, leaving it to South Korean companies that now dominate that market. 
Instead, it is emphasizing its advantage as the largest producer of chips for consumer electronics and a leading maker of high-capacity flash memory chips, which provide the brains for mobile phones and other premium gadgets. Toshiba also has tied itself to Sony by helping develop the chip for the next-generation PlayStation game console. The emphasis seems well placed, with sales of flash memory chips expected to reach records this year.
In the stores, Toshiba sells snazzy laptops rather than desktop computers, which have become commodities of the digital age. Though under growing pressure from Dell and Hewlett-Packard's Compaq line, Toshiba's laptops are among the most reliable and advanced on the market. Its DVD recorders and cellphones are also considered top of the line. 
By zeroing in on such high-growth products, Toshiba hopes to more than double its operating income in the next three years and become known primarily as a consumer technology company along the lines of Sony and Sharp.
"Many customers have an image of Toshiba that is conservative," said Yoshihiro Niita, president of Toshiba's Digital Media Network Company. "Our aim is to solve that." 
The trouble is that most of Toshiba's Japanese competitors want to revamp their businesses in similar ways, crowding the field and leading to fierce price wars. And in Japan and the rest of Asia, Toshiba's efforts to create a hip image for itself are handicapped by some legacy products like light bulbs and air-conditioners, as well as goods that fall under the category of "social infrastructure," like elevators and power turbines. 
Toshiba's image suffered notable damage in the United States after a 1987 scandal in which a unit of the company was implicated in shipping equipment that may have helped the Soviet Union build quieter submarines. 
Many analysts say Toshiba should stop trying to recreate the lower-margin businesses and leave them to others. But executives insist that building home appliances and other everyday items still makes sense because sales in China and other developing countries are strong.
In any event, brand images are notoriously hard to change, analysts say. Try as it may to recast itself, most consumers still view Toshiba as a solid yet conventional company.
"Nothing's impossible with enough advertising to change consumers' perceptions," said Jonathan Hurd, vice president for broadband and media practice at Adventis, a consulting firm in Boston. "But even if they tried a 'Toshiba Inside' strategy, like Intel, it might ring hollow." 
Moreover, as Japan's electronics giants try to build premium brands, the company they all seek to emulate -- Sony -- is no longer such an attractive model. Long considered the leading innovator in home electronics, Sony's profit has plunged as consumers flocked to lower-priced equipment from other manufacturers able to turn out high-quality goods.
For all their troubles, Japan's electronics companies remain at the forefront in developing world-class technology. That was on display at Toshiba's labs in Kawasaki, where researchers are working in pursuit of several potential technological jackpots. Toshiba is one of a handful of companies developing memory chips that employ magnetism to read data faster while using less energy. The company is also making new fuel cells that use methanol to run laptop computers far longer than conventional batteries do. 
Toshiba also sees a future in nanotechnology, which modifies atomic and molecular particles to produce stronger, lighter materials. With this technology, Toshiba hopes to add more memory to cellphones and other devices that store photos and music. To give these projects a lift, Toshiba plans by 2005 to increase spending by 30 percent, to some $3.6 billion, or about 8 percent of sales. 
Analysts cautioned, though, that the question is not how much Toshiba spends, but how quickly the money can be recouped. That demands a different mentality, where researchers think about both the process and the goal.
"In the past, it was enough to distribute money no matter where we put it," said Yasuo Ikawa, chief research officer at Toshiba's corporate research and development labs. "But after our restructuring, we are trying to more specifically tailor our investments." 
Some analysts say that Toshiba has also done the most to cut costs. The semiconductor division, for instance, has reduced procurement costs 20 percent as a result of buying from multiple sources. Toshiba has also shifted more basic production to factories in Malaysia, Thailand and other lower-cost countries. 
Western manufacturers, whose dominance eroded in the 1980's, long ago made similar adjustments. They also learned how to harness the value of their patents by licensing out their technology, something the Japanese are now doing in earnest. 
After teaching the world about just-in-time delivery in the 1980's, it is now Japan's turn to emulate the West again, Mr. Okamura said. In Toshiba's case, it has taken a page from a longtime partner, General Electric, by promising to leave any business where it is not among the top three in the sector. 
The burden of meeting such goals weighs on Mr. Okamura, who says Toshiba has completed only 80 percent of its current four-year program for change. "If I take a little break from restructuring our business," he said, "it would be a deathblow, given the global competition and ever-changing demand. There is no satisfaction."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tadashi Okamura, Toshiba's chief executive, examining a computer memory card. Toshiba is counting on such advanced technology to help it surpass global competitors. (Photo by Franck Robichon for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The demand for laptop computers weakened for a time in East Asia, a major market for Toshiba and its rivals. But despite low margins from price-cutting, Toshiba is pressing its advantage in products like memory chips. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) Chart: "Unplugged"Toshiba, like many of Japan's once mighty electronics and appliance makers, is struggling to figure out a new strategy amid intense competition that has hurt profits and stock prices. Graph tracks Toshiba's net income in fiscal years (ended March) since 1999. Graph tracks the weekly closes of Topix Electric Appliance Index (151 Japanese companies) except latest since 1999. Jan. 4, 1968 =100 (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; company reports)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); MARKET SHARE (68%); ARMIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); STOCK INDEXES (60%) ELECTRONICS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (96%); FUJITSU LTD (56%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TOSHIBA CORP; HITACHI LTD; FUJITSU LTD; NEC CORP; MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC CORP 

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (96%); 6502 (TSE) (96%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC3575 COMPUTER TERMINALS; 

PERSON: OKAMURA, TADASHI; BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



506 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Rates Curb Refinancings 

BYLINE:  By BloombergNews 

 BODY:
Applications for mortgages fell for a second consecutive week to the lowest in more than a year as rising mortgage rates drove down refinancing, an industry report showed. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association of America's index of mortgage applications dropped 10.7 percent to 736.7 last week, the lowest since the week that ended July 12, 2002, from 824.6. 
The refinancing index fell 14.9 percent to 2,756.8, also the lowest since July 2002, and is down 72 percent from the record high of 9,977.8 reached in the last week of May. 
 The refinancing index has fallen for seven consecutive weeks. 
The mortgage group's purchase index slipped 4.9 percent, to 389.5 from 409.6. The record of 460.5 was set in the final week of May. The index averaged 388.9 this year before last week's figures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



507 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
A Chip-Based Challenge to a Car's Spinning Camshaft

BYLINE:  By IAN AUSTEN 

 BODY:
IF Henry Ford could see the engines now made by the company he founded 100 years ago, he would probably be puzzled by the electronics that control many operations. But the mechanical system operating the valves that bring fuel and air into the engine and let out exhaust would be very familiar. 
 As in Ford's time, those spring-loaded valves are opened and closed by cams, precisely shaped bumps of steel spinning along a rotating shaft. 
 But some automotive researchers are working on ways of making mechanical valve controls as obsolete as the Model T Ford. Operating the controls electronically could improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and perhaps even eliminate the need for spark plugs in gasoline engines. 
The demise of the camshaft would also be welcomed by companies that make electronic parts for cars. "We'd really like to see this technology come along because it requires a huge use of semiconductors," said Ray Cornyn, the manager of Motorola's microcontroller division in Austin, Tex., which supplies the auto industry. 
Over the years, electronics have been more of a boon than a threat to camshafts. Computer-controlled manufacturing systems and computer-based designs have improved the quality of camshafts while reducing the cost of their manufacture. But in concept, camshafts remained relatively unchanged from the era of Ford's first assembly lines. 
Today it is common for each cylinder of a car's engine to have two pairs of intake and exhaust valves, with each pair sharing a cam on the camshaft. The camshaft is set spinning by a rubber belt or steel chain connected to the engine's crankshaft, the component that ultimately provides the power to the car's wheels. As the camshaft rotates, the high point of each cam first presses against a spring-loaded lifter of an intake valve, gradually opening it, and then closing it as the cam's low side approaches. As it continues to revolve, the high part of the cam repeats the process for the paired exhaust valve. 
When Siemens VDOAutomotive, in partnership with BMW, built a prototype camless engine four years ago, it came up with a three-part system. In place of cams it used solenoids, electromagnetically controlled plungers that are already widely used in cars for things like electric door locks.
While an electronic valve control system doesn't need mechanical power from the crankshaft, it does need to know what the crankshaft and the pistons driving it are doing. In a normal car, the belt or chain that connects crankshaft to camshaft ensures proper timing; that is, no valve remains open when its cylinder's piston is at the top of its travel. Such a situation would seriously damage a motor. 
In its camless version, Siemens prevents such mistiming by using sensors that detect the position of the crankshaft and thus the pistons. Finally, the new engine was given yet another powerful computer to make sure everything works in sequence. "When an eight-cylinder engine with four valves per cylinder is running at 6,000 r.p.m. there's a lot to do," said Michael Gauthier, director of corporate technology in Siemens's automotive division. 
The prototype engine was installed in a 3-series BMW sedan. It worked but had several significant shortcomings. For one thing, the solenoids and the additional computer power taxed the car's already overburdened electrical system. Mr. Gauthier said that cars would have to make a long-awaited move to 42-volt electrical systems (from the current 12 volts) before electronic valve control would be practical. 
For car makers, the system's least attractive aspect was its price relative to camshafts. And there was a problem that made the engine unattractive to buyers, particularly those who associate BMW with smoothly running engines. As anyone who has opened a car with electric locks knows, solenoids are far from silent. "I saw the vehicle, and all you heard when it was running was slap, slap, slap," Mr. Gauthier said. 
Motorola believes that the control computer could be programmed to soften and quiet the action of the solenoids. Other electronic valve-control designs have relied on different parts to push the valves open. 
A device that used piezoelectric crystals, which produce electricity when bent, was quiet and cut the power burden. But current piezoelectric devices must be about 8 to 10 inches high to operate engine valves. The result, Mr. Gauthier said, is an engine "that looks something like a porcupine" and will not fit under the hood of most cars. 
There are several incentives for trying to perfect electronic valves. Among other things, it would allow engines to reduce their power after getting a car up to speed, an easy way to save fuel. "About 90 percent of the time you need about 20 percent of the engine's output," Mr. Gauthier said. "It's extremely wasteful to put a 200-horsepower engine in a car when you only need 40 horsepower most of the time." 
But some car makers have already found several ways to achieve that goal mechanically. Some engines have camshafts that can be raised or lowered between two positions to adjust the valve openings. A more sophisticated system from BMW can make a wider range of valve adjustments to reduce or boost power. 
Because of those mechanical advances and the cost issue, Zoran Filipi, an associate research scientist and the assistant director of the University of Michigan's automotive research center, said that electronic control would probably become widespread only if it could change the way engines operate. 
A potential way to reduce emissions and improve economy in gasoline engines would be to eliminate spark plugs and, like a diesel engine, ignite fuel through the compression of pistons. Such engines, however, would only be cleaner if they used a carefully blended fuel mix injected at the last moment. Dr. Filipi said that electronic valves might be an effective way to control the engines' operation. 
The biggest hurdle for electronic valve controls may be that when it comes to auto parts, age does have its advantages, said Dr. Filipi. "Over the last 100 years or so we've perfected camshaft technologies," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (75%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (73%); EMISSIONS (72%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FUEL EFFICIENCY; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); SIEMENS AG (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%)

PERSON: AUSTEN, IAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



508 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2066 words

HEADLINE: 3 Women, 3 Paths, 10 Years On 

BYLINE:  By KATIE HAFNER 

 BODY:
AFTER Ellen Spertus earned undergraduate and advanced degrees at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1990's, she could have set her sights on joining the faculty at a large, prestigious academic institution. Or, like many other young technologists, she could have found a lucrative job in the Internet-driven economic boom. 
 Yet Dr. Spertus chose instead to teach at a small liberal arts college for women, Mills College in Oakland, Calif. She went there determined to teach computer science in a way that was not only compelling and rigorous but also, as she puts it, "nurturing." She is particularly dedicated to encouraging young women who seem as though they might be able to buck the statistics and enter the computing field. 
 Dr. Spertus cares about such young women because she used to be one of them. "I'm unabashed about being a computer geek and a woman," she said. 
Ten years ago, she was one of three M.I.T. graduates in their 20's who were profiled in The New York Times as women who might change the face of the computer industry. The other two were Stephanie Winner, a computer chip designer at Apple Computer, and Megan Smith, a mechanical engineer working for General Magic, a hot start-up that has long since disappeared. The common thread was rock-solid confidence, developed through parental encouragement and sports. 
Each, in a different way, has made a mark on her field over the last decade. But as they have seen firsthand, the face of the computing field, notorious for a scarcity of women, has changed little.
A decade ago, women accounted for 15 percent of computer professionals. That number has risen only slightly, to 20 percent, according to the Institute for Women and Technology, a nonprofit group based in Palo Alto, Calif. And women in the computer industry are at a disadvantage in pay, earning an average of $55,000 to their male colleagues' $65,000, according to the National Science Foundation. 
In academia, the picture is little different. Of the 61 M.I.T. students receiving Ph.D.'s in computer science and electrical engineering in 1993, 10 were women. In 2003, 63 Ph.D.'s were awarded; 10 went to women. 
As for Dr. Spertus, Ms. Smith and Ms. Winner, all three have all kept a hand in the computer industry, though sometimes drifting from their original areas of expertise. 
Ms. Smith, now 38, was already moving away from the technical fray and toward management a decade ago; she has since pursued a succession of Internet start-up opportunities. Ms. Winner, 39, who had two children in 1993 and now has four, was already voicing concerns about the tug she felt between work and family; she has found a more balanced life through work in a legal office. And Dr. Spertus, 35, who wrote an undergraduate paper titled "Why Are There So Few Women in Computer Science?," has since produced many more: she is now a tenured professor of computer science. 
Although their career paths are varied, all three have remained committed to the idea that women in technology should be the norm, not the exception.

The Professor
Ellen Spertus was a conspicuous centerpiece of M.I.T.'s nerd pride movement while she was a student there. She was a skilled programmer, and loved a course in which students built a computer from a "nerd kit" of circuit boards and chips. She began her job hunt in 1997, a year before earning her Ph.D. She received invitations to interview at 25 institutions, including the University of Chicago, Yale and Brandeis, but when an offer came from Mills, she withdrew the other applications. 
At first her M.I.T. colleagues were surprised. But she found the idea of teaching at a small women's college tremendously appealing. "I thought I'd rather go to a school where I wouldn't shortchange students," she said. "The whole point of the job is teaching computer science to women." And, she added, "I was attracted to a place where I didn't have to feel I was representing all women." 
She has not regretted the decision. She has adapted not only the nerd kit course but also M.I.T.'s difficult introductory computer course -- so brutal that it has been called the Cherokee Bear Kill Ritual -- to the Mills curriculum. But hers is a gentler approach than the one she experienced at M.I.T. 
"I've always disagreed that you have to be brutal in order to be rigorous," she said. "I think you can be simultaneously nurturing and rigorous." 
The number of Mills students in computer science remains low, with two to six earning bachelor's degrees each year, and roughly the same number earning an advanced degree in what Mills calls "interdisciplinary computer science," which combines computer science with another field like education, music or business. For that reason, Dr. Spertus has created a computer class for nonmajors that is consistently oversubscribed and has attracted a few converts to the field. While embarking on her teaching career, she married a fellow computer scientist, Keith Golden, in 1998. 
Given Dr. Spertus's stature as a computer scientist, it might seem incongruous that one achievement she is especially proud of is having been named "Sexiest Geek Alive" in a Silicon Valley pageant in 2001. In the contest, whose judges included technology writers and editors, she wore a corset printed with circuit board patterns and a slit skirt that exposed a slide rule (her father's, from his own days at M.I.T.) strapped to her leg in a leather holster. 
"I wanted people to know that geeks aren't just men," she said.
Dr. Spertus's only regret, she said, is that she did not take part in the dot-com frenzy. Her thesis research was on retrieval of information from the Internet, and her principal insight, she said, was similar to the one that became an underpinning of Google's technology. 
"I don't regret my decision to join Mills," she said. "I just wish I could have done both."

The Entrepreneur
At M.I.T., Megan Smith was a gifted mechanical engineer. Obsessed with building things -- especially things with moving parts -- she sawed, cut, drilled and milled her way through her studies.
In 1987 she was part of a small team of students that built a solar-powered car and raced it across the Australian outback. For her master's degree project in 1988, she built a joystick with motors underneath that produced a variety of tactile sensations. 
A lanky woman with the limbs of an athlete, Ms. Smith has a way of looking at once intense and utterly distractible. She has an uncanny ability to infect others with her enthusiasms. And she has shown a knack for gravitating to the most prominent young companies in Silicon Valley.
While at General Magic, a company conceived by Apple Computer veterans to do for mobile computing what the Macintosh had done for the desktop, Ms. Smith began drifting from engineering to business. She began working with the company's corporate partners, and in time, the only daily reminder of her own technical work was a desk drawer filled with mechanical engineering paraphernalia. 
Ten years ago, Ms. Smith displayed some twinges of regret. "It's really, really difficult to let it go because you're a pioneer, an example for younger women, and you need to stay in it," she said then. "But then you feel drawn into this other stuff." 
Those twinges have since all but disappeared. "You can make contributions from any of the different roles you're in," she said in an interview.
After leaving General Magic, she joined another start-up, PlanetOut, a Web site (www.planetout.com) catering to gays and lesbians, not long after she came out herself. In a commitment ceremony in 1999, she affirmed her partnership with Kara Swisher, a columnist for The Wall Street Journal. They have a 15-month-old son, Louis. 
By 1998, Ms. Smith was the chief executive of PlanetOut. The company's plans for an initial public offering were dashed by dot-com crash. PlanetOut is still around, and after a merger in 2001 with Gay.com, it is profitable, she said, as part of PlanetOut Partners. But Ms. Smith is now working on business development at Google, where she says she is surrounded by women holding technical positions.
Among women in technology, at least, Ms. Smith is not alone. She said she had noticed a pattern of female programmers' becoming program managers -- in other words, leaving the technical side for management. 

The Patent Agent
That was the course taken by Stephanie Winner, who has evolved from chip designer at Apple into a project manager there and at a succession of Silicon Valley start-ups. 
The scarcity of female chip designers has been a recurrent theme in Ms. Winner's career. Just 6 percent are women, according to the National Science Foundation, and that figure has not changed over the years.
In 2000, when she was a project manager at the graphics chip maker 3dfx Interactive, "I looked around to see which positions women were in, and there were hardly any," she recalled. She told a colleague about her observation. "He was from Intel, and I was hoping he would say, 'Oh, no, I know so-and-so and so-and-so,' but his reaction was more just, 'Buck up and be a role model."' 
But Ms. Winner's desire to be a role model for other women has been eclipsed by her desire to spend time with her four daughters, ages 7 to 12. She now works at a Silicon Valley law firm as a patent agent, interviewing inventors and preparing patent applications. (The job requires a scientific or engineering degree, a brief preparatory course and a qualifying examination.) She works 30 hours a week, in contrast to the 50 she used to put in.
She does not miss the technical work, which she describes as a "grind." And she has no desire to return to program management, which, she said, is a lot like being a mother. "You're always tracking all the stuff everyone is doing," she said.
Although Ms. Winner has left the technical fray, she continues to notice the scarcity of women. "I have not yet met with a single woman inventor," she said. 

The Future
They knew they were not likely to be the generation that would level the numbers. Their triumphs are relatively small: Ms. Winner is no longer mistaken for a secretary. Ms. Smith no longer receives letters addressed to "Sir" or "Gentlemen." Dr. Spertus is respected not only for her research, but also for her work on behalf of young women. Nationally, the figures for women attaining Ph.D.'s in computer science mirror those at M.I.T.: in 2000, the most recent year for which federal figures are available, 15 percent of the 577 new doctorates went to women. Nonetheless, Telle Whitney of the Institute for Women and Technology said she was optimistic about women's role in technology over the next 10 years. "I see a lot of programs in place," she said. "If you go to a lot of the major tech companies, they're really making an effort." 
I.B.M. in particular focuses on encouraging school-age girls to seek careers in technology. Over the last five years it has established partnerships with school districts throughout the country as well as summer camps for girls in middle school that focus on math and science. 
Two years ago Cisco Systems created a Women's Action Network to encourage professional development and networking among Cisco employees. 
Microsoft has partnerships with several organizations to examine ways of addressing the issue of women in technology. The company is also working with faculty members at colleges including Mount Holyoke, Smith and Wellesley to develop a stronger technology curriculum and to encourage women to go into such fields. 
"Over all, it's still a big slog," Ms. Smith said. "We're still climbing Mount Everest, and we're maybe halfway up."
Nevertheless, she said she could see evidence of progress. "There are pockets, and there always have been, all the way back to Ellen Swallow Richards," said Ms. Smith, referring to the first woman admitted to M.I.T., in 1871. "And what's exciting is there are more pockets of success now."
Then there are the individual efforts of people like Ms. Winner, who encourages her four daughters to embrace math and science. If Ms. Smith sees a lot of men asking for raises, she makes an extra effort to reach out to female employees, who are not likely to be as vocal. And Dr. Spertus continues to take it one class at a time. 
"If I focused on the big picture, I'd be discouraged," Dr. Spertus said. "But every day I work with women who are excited and learning and growing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHIFT IN FOCUS -- Megan Smith, above left, works in business development at Google. In 1993, right, she was with General Magic, a start-up company that no longer exists. (Photo by Top, Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; inset, Susan Spann for The New York Times); MOVING ON -- Stephanie Winner's family has grown from two children to four in 10 years; she migrated from chip design to patent law. (Photos by Above, Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; inset, Susan Spann for The New York Times)(pg. G7); THEN AND NOW -- After earning an advanced degree from M.I.T., Ellen Spertus, at right in 1993, decided to teach at a liberal arts college for women, where she is now a professor. (Photos by Above, Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; left, Therese Frare for The New York Times)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MEN (71%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); STARTUPS (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; MICROSOFT CORP 

PERSON: HAFNER, KATIE; SPERTUS, ELLEN; WINNER, STEPHANIE; SMITH, MEGAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



509 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: COUNCIL CONTESTS: 14th District -- Bronx; 
Fierce Race in the Bronx Has Some Personal Twists

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Amid the bustle that overtakes the corner of Fordham Road and Jerome Avenue in the Bronx in the early evening, City Councilwoman Maria Baez stood this week with members of her campaign team, passing out literature, answering questions and trying to drum up support for her re-election.
 Ms. Baez, a Democrat in her first term, stood near a woman selling mangoes from a shopping cart and greeted riders coming from and going to the elevated subway platform, a local assemblyman by her side. With her were a half-dozen volunteers wearing red-and-black T-shirts urging voters to "Reelect Councilwoman Maria Baez." 
 Across the street, near a table where men's shirts were selling two for $5, another group of campaigners wore black-and-gold shirts that said, "Reelect Councilman Israel Ruiz." With them stood Mr. Ruiz, a former city councilman and state senator, who hugged passers-by. He seemed to take pride in introducing people to the man campaigning along side him: Ms. Baez's ex-husband.
The race for the Democratic nomination in City Council District 14 in the Kingsbridge and Fordham sections of the Bronx is fierce in tone and, at times, highly personal.
Ms. Baez, 45, was a longtime aide to Assemblyman Jose Rivera, the Bronx Democratic Party chairman, before being elected to the Council two years ago. She is a soft-spoken woman who is known more for her behind-the-scenes attention to details of the district and less for seeking headlines or even holding news conferences.
"I know what the people of this district need," Ms. Baez said. "And I know how to deliver things to them."
She said she would rather talk about things like the role she played in securing $3.2 million in public money this year for construction of a new classroom building at Bronx Community College than about Mr. Ruiz's credentials.
As for the presence of her ex-husband next to Mr. Ruiz, she said she had nothing to say about that. "I want to focus on the needs of the district," she said. (Her ex-husband, Gerald DuBose, said he was there to show his support for Mr. Ruiz, whom he described as a good man. He would not comment when asked if he was motivated by personal reasons.)
Of Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Baez said, "I will let him say whatever he likes about me."
Mr. Ruiz, in an interview, jumped at the invitation. 
He attacked Ms. Baez for her association with the party organization and questioned her effectiveness and suitability for office.
"She got this job only because she was Jose Rivera's chief of staff," Mr. Ruiz said. "She's passed no bills and has no programs. She has brought nothing back to the district. She's a political hack who is there only because she paid her dues to the party."
Mr. Ruiz, 60, served in the Council from 1992 to 1998 and is a politician with one of the most colorful histories in the Bronx. He ran unsuccessfully for Bronx borough president in 1997 and lost two years ago in a crowded race for the Council seat that Ms. Baez won. In the meantime, he worked as an administrator for the State Dormitory Authority, from which he retired recently.
Democratic leaders in the Bronx -- nearly all of whom have endorsed Ms. Baez -- are quick to go where Ms. Baez will not, and highlight Mr. Ruiz's past.
They recall that Mr. Ruiz lost his State Senate seat after a 1989 conviction for making false statements on a bank loan application. Mr. Ruiz, who re-entered politics by winning a City Council seat in 1991, said that his conviction and sentence were the handiwork of state officials who looked for revenge for a series of investigations that he had conducted on theabuse of prisoners in state penitentiaries.
Mr. Ruiz and Ms. Baez both said that the district's greatest needs were in reducing unemployment and in providing moderate- and low-income housing. But they disagree on who would be a better advocate and a more effective official.
"When I was in the State Senate, I was known for pushing housing issues," Mr. Ruiz said. "Many of the advances in housing in this district are because of my efforts."
Though Ms. Baez enjoys the benefit of support by both the party and several unions, some Democratic leaders say she will have to work hard in this campaign because she is running against a well-known opponent. Mr. Ruiz has so far raised $14,543 and has received an additional $53,000 in public matching funds.
But Ms. Baez's challenge eased a bit when Iris Baez, whose son Anthony was killed in a confrontation with police officers in 1994, withdrew from the race. (She is not related to Maria Baez.) The councilwoman has raised $62,000 so far but has not yet received any matching funds. (She could receive as much as $84,000.)
"I'm not taking anything for granted," Ms. Baez said. "But I'm dealing with the real issues of the community. And the people came out and selected me two years ago. And I feel comfortable that that's what they're going to do again on Sept. 9."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Baez, above right, is a former Democratic aide who won her Council seat two years ago. Her opponent, Israel Ruiz, below, is a former councilman and state senator. They were campaigning in the Bronx this week. (Photographs by Lucian M. Read for The New York Times) Chart:Population: 157,923Median income: $23,697Owner occupied: 7%Unemployed: 19% Percent white (non-Hispanic): 4%Percent black (non-Hispanic): 25%Percent Asian (non-Hispanic): 3%Percent Hispanic: 66% Percent foreign-born: 39%Percent noncitizen: 27% (Source by Census 2000 data) Map of Manhattan shows the location of Council District 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (70%) 

PERSON: Maria Baez; Israel Ruiz; Gerald DuBose; Jonathan P Hicks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



510 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: DIPLOMACY; 
U.S. WILL ASK U.N. FOR MOVE TO WIDEN THE FORCE IN IRAQ

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN with FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, seizing on the bomb attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, is preparing a new Security Council resolution that would urge other nations to send troops and aid to secure Iraq, administration officials said today.
 The new resolution would allow the American military to maintain control over any international forces in Iraq -- something the Pentagon has insisted on. But the Bush administration is hoping that a new resolution, if passed, would encourage nations like India, Pakistan and Turkey to contribute troops by providing some sort of United Nations cover to the American operation. 
 Up to now, those nations, and others, have balked at contributing troops without a United Nations resolution backing such a deployment.
In Iraq today, the top American administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, demanded that the Iraqi Governing Council condemn Tuesday's bomb attack and begin to take greater responsibility for security. And American F.B.I. agents combing the scene of the bombing, which killed 20 people, said the truck used in the attack had carried about 1,500 pounds of explosives including mortar shells, hand grenades and a 500-pound Soviet-made bomb. Page A12. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, speaking in Honduras, said that despite the bombing in Iraq, he saw no need to increase troop levels, at least for now. "At the moment, the conclusion of the responsible military officials is that the force levels are where they should be," he said.
But the diplomatic maneuvering today suggested that some officials in the administration, particularly in the State Department, believe that the bombing demonstrates that military reinforcements are needed. There are now 139,000 American troops in Iraq and 21,700 troops from other countries, half from Britain.
Some experts say it is unrealistic to think that Iraq can be secured with troops at the current level. A debate over this subject flared in May, when Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, then the Army chief of staff, said hundreds of thousands would be needed to secure Iraq after the war.
James F. Dobbins, an expert in peacekeeping operations who was the Bush administration's special envoy to Afghanistan, said in an interview today that the United States might need 300,000 to 500,000 troops to maintain stability in the country.
"Whatever the right number is, it's significantly larger than what we have," said Mr. Dobbins, director of international security and defense policy at the Rand Corporation. "But, let's face it, we're going to be driven by what can be deployed rather than what the situation calls for."
India, Turkey and Pakistan have been regarded by the Pentagon as potential contributors of additional forces. India, which opposed the war in Iraq, has offered to send a division now, or about 18,000 troops. But it refuses to do so without United Nations authority over the operations.
An American official said that those countries might be looking for some way to help, and that a strong United Nations resolution citing the dire conditions in Iraq might bring a favorable decision. But an Indian diplomat said he was not sure what the response would be in New Delhi.
"Obviously, our government will have to see the wording of any new resolution to see if it is in line with our thinking," the diplomat said.
Even if such a resolution is approved, it is not clear whether additional troops from other countries would lead to an overall increase in troops in Iraq, or merely enable the United States to pull some of its troops out.
Administration officials said Secretary of State Colin L. Powell started preparing the new resolution on Tuesday, after the Baghdad bombing. Mr. Powell will travel to the United Nations on Thursday to confer with the secretary general, Kofi Annan, about the new resolution, an American official said.
Along with the debate over troops, United Nations officials say wealthy countries in a position to provide assistance to Iraq are also reluctant to contribute without more authority being given to the United Nations.
There is to be an Iraqi donors' meeting in October, but some nations planning to send envoys say the demand to give the United Nations more authority over Iraq -- also being resisted in Washington -- will be the major issue.
"The donor countries may put up all kinds of pledges," said an envoy from a country under pressure to make a large contribution. "But when it comes to writing the checks, who do we write them out to? We're not writing them to the occupation. There has to be more of a U.N. role."
An administration official said a separate idea floating around was for the Iraqi Governing Council -- whose existence the Security Council "welcomed" in a resolution passed last week -- to be asked to request military help from the United Nations.
The official explained that since it would not involve the United States' asking for the troops, the request might not be resented by nations that opposed the war earlier this year.
But knowledgeable diplomats at the United Nations scoffed at the idea, in part because of widespread skepticism about the legitimacy of the Governing Council, which consists of 25 Iraqis handpicked by the American occupation led by Mr. Bremer.
"The Governing Council does not have the status of a government in the eyes of most members of the United Nations," a Western diplomat said. "It will be hard for the United Nations to invite them in even to make a presentation."
An Arab diplomat, going further, said Arab countries would oppose vesting any authority in the Governing Council. "No request from that council will be seen as legitimate," he said.
Asked how the bombing of the United Nations headquarters might have changed Islamic countries' thinking on providing assistance, Pakistan's United Nations ambassador, Munir Akram, said the question being asked in the Islamic world was: "What can the United States do to make the presence of its forces there more acceptable to the Iraqi people?" 
Among other possible concessions, he said, were "an indication of a timetable for withdrawal, and a greater degree of international participation in economic decision-making."
The wording of the resolution to be proposed by the United States was not clear tonight, but a diplomat at the United Nations warned that unless it gave the United Nations a measure of "authority, responsibility or control" over the security situation, it probably would not pass.
Some weeks ago, after India first rebuffed a request by the United States to send troops to Iraq, American officials indicated that they were open to a resolution that would give the United Nations more authority over peacekeeping, senior officials said today.
But subsequently, the officials said, American diplomats ran into snags from Russia and France, both of which raised objections and demanded greater control for the United Nations.
A diplomat knowledgeable about those discussions said it had become clear to the American officials that Russia and France wanted more control for themselves -- and perhaps more contracts for Russian and French companies. At that point, they said, the idea of a new resolution was shelved.
"The issue of more U.N. involvement was dead only last week," said a diplomat involved in the discussions. "Tragically, the events of this week has revived the debate, but it's not clear what the result will be."
Some American officials said there was disappointment among those around Mr. Powell that the administration had not signed on to the idea of giving the Iraqi occupation, and the American and British security forces, more of an international flavor with United Nations authority.
On the other hand, Mr. Powell, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was said to be sympathetic to the Pentagon view that it would be dangerous to dilute American authority over the occupation at a time of such difficult security conditions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Pronyk, a United Nations worker from Canada wounded in Tuesday's blast, at a military hospital. (Photo by Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%) UNITED NATIONS; STATE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%)

PERSON: ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); INDIA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); TURKEY (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HONDURAS (79%) IRAQ; INDIA; PAKISTAN; TURKEY; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



511 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Familiar Domino Sugar Refinery Will Shut Much of Its Operation 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The neon Domino Sugar sign looms over the East River like a beacon, visible for miles. Gleaming above the Brooklyn complex where sugar has been refined for more than a century, it has become a symbol of a rapidly fading industrial legacy, a reminder that the city known for high-tech finance and elegant living was built on ships and machinery, brawn and sweat.
 Although the sign itself may remain illuminated, much of the work it heralds will soon cease. Yesterday at the mammoth brick refinery, a relic of the time when New York led the nation in sugar processing, office staff members and unions representing the other workers were told that sometime before February, the refinery would shut down. Only part of the adjacent packaging operation will continue. 
 About 190 workers stand to lose their jobs, with the remaining 60 or 70 staying on in packaging and warehousing or moving to another of the company's locations.
"We can't sell all we can make," said Jack Lay, president and chief executive officer of the American Sugar Refining Company, which acquired the Domino plant on the Williamsburg waterfront in 2001. "The capacity of the refineries exceeds the quantity that we cancompete for in the marketplace."
The refinery -- once the world's largest, according to a company brochure -- and its related buildings fill an 11-and-a-half-acre swath along a quarter of a mile of the East River just north of the Williamsburg Bridge.
Operating since the 1880's, it was built by the Havemeyer family, which became extremely wealthy as New York picked up the slack left by the Civil War destruction of many Southern refineries. The city at one time processed 60 percent of the nation's sugar.
In recent decades, as New York hemorrhaged manufacturing jobs, especially along the waterfront, the plant has been the scene of bitter strikes that drastically cut production. In addition, the use of high-fructose corn syrup instead of sucrose in products like soda and canned fruit severely cut into the demand for sugar, Mr. Lay said.
The Domino plant has the capacity to produce about 950 million pounds of sugar a year, he said, but it produced only 400 million pounds last year. The previous owner, Tate & Lyle, had already shed its operations processing raw sugar, instead taking semiprocessed liquid sugar off a barge from the Domino plant in Baltimore and crystallizing it into granules. Now, even that will stop.
Mr. Lay said there were no immediate plans for the building itself, a hulking factory that smells on different floors earthy, sweet and sharp, and that has attracted its own set of fans. Last year, for example, members of the Society for Industrial Archaeology toured the building, where stalactites of sugar had formed on some of the pipes.
"The short-term impact is not devastation, but it will be very disheartening to people in the neighborhood who have seen jobs leave over two decades," said David Yassky, the city councilman who represents the area. "Long-term, it's part of a trend of the transformation of an industrial waterfront that's going to be used for housing and open space."
For example, the city has been pushing forward with a huge proposal to rezone the Williamsburg and Greenpoint waterfront to encourage residential and recreational uses where industry once ruled. Officials drew the plan, however, to preserve the Domino site for manufacturing, and yesterday, Richard Barth, executive director of the Department of City Planning, said that the administration remained "committed to finding an industrial reuse for that site."
Still, Mr. Yassky said, the closing is troubling, and underscores the need to protect jobs in places like Sunset Park, which has recently lost hundreds of them to plant closings, and along stretches of the waterfront, where the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the Bloomberg administration are considering new uses for mercantile piers.
Andrew Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said in a statement that the Department of Small Business Services would work with the company to provide job training and placement services to workers slated for layoffs.
Several workers outside the complex around lunchtime yesterday, all of whom declined to give their names, said that they had not yet received any official announcement and were working "under a cloud of uncertainty," in the words of one.
One man, smoking a cigarette in a yard outside the refinery, seemed fatalistic.
"What do you do when you lose your job?" he said between drags, shrugging and chuckling wryly. "Find another one. Life goes on."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As he waved to a new colleague yesterday at the Domino Sugar refinery in Williamsburg, Sinclair Rowe said sadly: "I just hired that guy. He started on Monday." They both may be unemployed by early next year. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. B6); The Domino Sugar refinery, which has dominated part of Brooklyn's waterfront since the 19th century, will retain only its packaging and warehousing operations on the site. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Sugar; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Layoffs and Job Reductions; Labor; Zoning

ORGANIZATION: American Sugar Refining Co

PERSON: Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



512 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: UNITED NATIONS; 
Questions Haunt a Saddened Annan

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
As staff members prepared for a candlelight vigil in memory of their slain colleagues in Baghdad, two questions were asked repeatedly here today. Who should take responsibility for the security breach that enabled the bombing to happen? And how can the organization best protect workers who will continue the job of reconstructing Iraq?
 The questions dogged a haggard Secretary General Kofi Annan from Stockholm to the doors of the United Nations headquarters building in New York, where he met with the Security Council and rose with them in a somber, silent vigil to the victims of the bloodiest attack ever on a civilian United Nations mission. 
 The report that officials of the Baghdad mission had rejected an offer of increased security from allied forces before the bombing caused great concern here. But, with many members of the mission dead, seriously injured or traumatized and scattered, officials were unable to confirm by this evening that an offer had been made. 
As he returned to headquarters from Europe this afternoon, Mr. Annan said that if the United Nations had turned down the occupation forces' offer, "it was not correct and they should not have been allowed to turn it down."
Earlier, speaking to reporters in Stockholm, he said, "We had hoped that by now the coalition forces would have secured the environment for us to be able to carry on the essential work of political and economic reconstruction." That, he added, "has not happened." 
The security questions punctuated a day of mourning and remembrance that ended with the vigil outside the United Nations.
The name most often on people's lips was that of Sergio Vieira de Mello, Mr. Annan's special representative in Iraq. 
In a telephone interview from London, Ahmad Fawzi, the former press secretary to Mr. Vieira de Mello, said that Mr. Vieira de Mello, "was conscious of the security concerns that we all had and that the security officials passed on to him on a daily basis." 
He added that Mr. Vieira de Mello "had a military adviser, a U.N. military adviser who was liaising with the coalition military and was reporting several times a day to Sergio and his team."
"We would take that into account," he said. "We were concerned about the security situation, but he went about his business."
The larger ramifications that the attack will have on the organization were only beginning to become clear today.
As Mr. Annan told the Security Council: "Yesterday's events have broader implications for the United Nations beyond Iraq. Wherever the United Nations goes in to help and whatever measures are taken for staff security it is sustained by the perception among the local population that the United Nations is there to help them.
"The blue flag has never been so viciously assaulted as it was yesterday."
The determination to continue the mission was another central theme of statements made here today. Mr. Annan told the Council today that he had appointed the humanitarian coordinator in Iraq, Ramiro Lopes da Silva, as acting head of the operation. A United Nations spokesman, Fred Eckhard, said the remaining staff members in Baghdad had been offered a chance to return home. Two have accepted the offer.
The Syrian ambassador, Mikhail Wehbe, whose country holds the Council presidency for August, said in a statement that the Council "reaffirms its determination to assist the Iraqi people to build peace and justice in their country and to determine their own political future."
In perhaps the most eloquent of his five separate public statements today, Mr. Annan, in a taped, televised address to United Nations staff members worldwide, said the victims of the blast "have been taken from us, and from the people they were working to assist, by an act so savage and senseless that we can hardly believe it really happened."
"It feels like a nightmare, from which we are still hoping to wake. If only it were."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kofi Annan, United Nations secretary general, took part yesterday in a vigil for victims of Tuesday's bombing of U.N. offices in Baghdad. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



513 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE AGENCIES; 
International Aid Groups Withdrawing Staffs From Iraq

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
International organizations, led by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, began evacuating workers from Iraq today as they pondered the implications of the deadly truck bombing Tuesday at United Nations headquarters in Baghdad.
 Though the departures are most likely temporary, they add to the problems that American officials are having in postwar Iraq. 
 The World Bank had been on the verge of opening a permanent office in Baghdad when the attack occurred. At the time of the bombing, World Bank officials were in the final stages of collecting data for a broad assessment of Iraqi reconstruction needs, which they hoped to present to an international conference of donors that is scheduled to take place in Madrid in October. 
Tuesday's attack could delay that effort. It could also delay efforts by the International Monetary Fund to provide assistance on issues like a new Iraqi currency and the creation of a new commercial code.
Instability and rising violence in Iraq have not only delayed efforts to rebuild Iraqi oil production and re-establish reliable electricity, but they have also frightened off all but the most intrepid foreign investors and virtually all multinational corporations.
Iraq desperately needs foreign investment capital, because more than half its work force is unemployed and most all of its industry is in a state of disrepair, but the bombing is likely to discourage investment.
World Bank officials have been scrutinizing Iraqi needs in areas ranging from electric power and water to health care and education. The International Monetary Fund has been preoccupied with helping rebuild Iraqi financial rules and institutions.
Tom Dawson, head of external relations for the International Monetary Fund, said the fund was still reassessing its strategy for keeping people in the country.
"Nobody can say," Mr. Dawson said today. "We just have to wait and see what happens."
James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, spoke today with John B. Taylor, the assistant secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. Officials at the Treasury Department said both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund had pledged to remain active in Iraq.
"No one questions the courage and commitment of the staff and the institutions to go into situations like Baghdad," said Tony Fratto, a spokesman for the United States Treasury Department. "What we have heard from the international financial institutions is a reaffirming of their commitment."
The World Bank, which had 15 employees in Iraq at the United Nations compound, said that several of them had been injured in the attack and that one was still missing.
The International Monetary Fund said four of its six employees in Iraq suffered minor injuries and a fifth was seriously injured. They will all be evacuated.
Officials at both organizations insisted today that they would not be dissuaded from working in Iraq. But World Bank officials said they were disturbed that their own workers might be seen as targets, and neither of the two big international financial institutions could say today when its people would return.
"We have worked in East Timor, Kosovo, Bosnia, the Great Lakes district in Africa, so it's not as if we are unfamiliar with dangers and conflicts," said Joseph Saba, the World Bank's director for the Middle East region. "But our role and the perceptions of the actors in these societies has been positive, and therefore we were not targeted."
"As a manager, I must have as my primary concern the safety of my staff," Mr. Saba continued. "We have to assess the safety in light of this attack, which quite frankly is not in the realm of our experience." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TRENDS (68%); POLITICS (62%) FOREIGN AID; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



514 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: SARS Keeps Foreign Students Home, Hurting Chinese Businesses 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Most summers, Zhou Li does a brisk business selling soda and instant noodles to the enthusiastic foreigners studying Chinese next door. She sleeps on a bench in her convenience store, in case a student craves ice cream at 3 a.m.
 But this summer, there are no students at the Beijing Language Institute. The program was canceled months ago because of SARS. Nor are there any students at the programs in China organized by Princeton, Johns Hopkins or dozens of others. They were canceled, too, because of SARS. 
 Two months after the government declared that SARS was under control, Ms. Zhou and many of the people who run bars, convenience stores and small businesses dependent on China's annual influx of summer students are still reeling from the repercussions.
They are largely alone now in their predicament because SARS is old news for everyone else.
Tourism has bounced back. One airline, China Eastern, reported last week that passenger traffic jumped by 162 percent in July. Businesses are recovering. While retail sales fell 19.7 percent in June compared with last year, they dropped 43.2 percent in May. And while a few beauty parlors and taxis still hang signs proclaiming themselves as "disinfected," no one wears masks anymore.
But for Ms. Zhou, business is down at least 50 percent. The foreign students she watched with near-maternal pride as they practiced their new language skills on her are gone, at least for this year. "I miss the students; they are like my guests, not my customers," said Ms. Zhou, 48, who does not speak English. 
Every summer, an estimated 1,000 students from the United States pay roughly $5,000 apiece to enroll in dozens of language programs, mostly in Beijing and Shanghai, but also in places like Nanjing and Xiamen, according to Mark Lenhart, director of CET Academic Programs in Washington, which sends about 300 students a year.
But the SARS panic peaked in April and May, which is when summer programs are typically made final. So almost everything was canceled.
The summer has been equally bleak for Zhi Hun, a bartender at the Floating Isle Bar in northern Beijing. Business, he estimates, is down by 30 percent.
With its Jack Daniels posters and red-and-white checkered tablecloths, the bar has lured students from places like the inter-university program for Chinese language studies at nearby Tsinghua University. But on a recent day at happy hour, when the bar would ordinarily have been filled with summer students, Mr. Zhi was alone, and watching a video, "Braveheart." 
"There's definitely been a big impact," said Mr. Zhi, who says that his English has slipped because he no longer can practice. "We need the students to come back."
Many programs plan to make limited returns in the fall, as long as SARS does not resurface. But that is little comfort to Ms. Zhou and Mr. Zhi.
For now, Ms. Zhou reminds herself that the life of a store owner is better than her previous work as an accountant. She is also getting good sleep, she said with a laugh, since there are no tappings on her store window seeking a middle-of-the night snack.
But she would rather be with the students. It is her habit to give each student a souvenir at summer's end. But this year she does not have any in stock. It would be too sad, she says. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (92%); CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); SARS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (76%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDY, TEACHING AND TRAVEL; CHINESE LANGUAGE 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); SHANGHAI (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



515 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Strong Franc Helps Reduce Nestle's Profit 

BYLINE:  By ALISON LANGLEY 

DATELINE: ZURICH, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
First-half profits at Nestle fell by half from the year-ago period, hurt by a strong Swiss franc and comparison with a one-time gain last year, the company said today.
 Nestle, the world's biggest food company, reported a 51 percent decline in net earnings to 2.78 billion francs ($2.02 billion), down from 5.65 billion francs ($4.06 billion) in the period last year. 
 Profits for the first half of this year fell because last year Nestle had a one-time gain through its partial stock offering of Alcon, the company's eye care unit, the company said.
 Sales fell 6.3 percent, to 41.44 billion francs ($29.8 billion), though the company said that currency effects reduced sales by 12.6 percent; excluding those effects, sales actually rose by 6.3 percent. 
 Analysts calculated that second-quarter sales were up 5.2 percent from the period last year at 21.7 billion francs, excluding currency fluctuations.
 The company noted, however, that stripping out the effects of foreign exchange fluctuations and one-time events but keeping price increases, its sales grew 5.5 percent. Nestle, which calls this figure its organic growth, expects it to rise 5 percent to 6 percent this year, a goal company officials said today that they would meet.
 Sales were particularly strong in chilled culinary foods, like Stouffer's, and mineral water. Those increases were partly offset by slower sales of chocolate, confectionery and pet care products in the United States.
 Nestle, which is based in Vevey, Switzerland, makes its well-known chocolate as well as Nescafe coffee, Lean Cuisine frozenfoods and Buitoni pasta. It has recently been building up its beverage unit, which now includes labels like Evian and San Pellegrino mineral water, and its ice cream division. Nestle completed its purchase of Dreyer's Ice Cream in June. The company also owns Friskies and Purina brand pet foods.
 Officials said strong sales in ice cream and beverages continued throughout the summer, helped by a heat wave in Europe. In addition, economies have begun to rebound around the world leading Nestle officials to forecast a strong second half of the year.
 "After a challenging start to this year, we expect now a more favorable trading environment for the second half," Wolfgang H. Reichenberger, chief financial officer, said on a conference call.
 Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, the chief executive, said in a telephone interview that he expected the company's full-year net income and sales to beat last year's number, led by the North American market, where there were signs of an economic rebound.
 Three special events that helped damp business in the first half of the year appear to be abating, Mr. Brabeck said in a telephone interview. The severe acute respiratory syndrome virus that led to a downturn in business in China and Southeast Asia has now been contained and business in the area has since picked up. Further, the war in Western Africa, a growth area for Nestle, has also ended. Less certain, Mr. Brabeck said, was the climate in the Middle East.
 "We had very encouraging developments in the Middle East in general after the war in Iraq," Mr. Brabeck said. "Hopefully yesterday's bombings will not prevent economic development, but one has to assess."
 Nestle's three efficiency programs, designed to save the company 6 billion francs a year beginning in 2006, were on target, Mr. Brabeck said. "We are perfectly on time and on budget."
 Nestle's first priority this year, Mr. Brabeck said, is to improve operating performance. Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization margin rose 30 basis points to 12.2 percent, for operating income of 5.05 billion francs. "I think we have improved this," he said.
 The company should be able to continue to grow between at 5 to 6 percent for the remainder of the year, he added.
 The 5.5 percent organic growth surprised analysts who had predicted a 4.8 percent increase. "It doesn't sound like much, but for a food company, it's huge," said James Amoroso, who follows Nestle for Pictet et Compagnie. "Organic growth has cranked up nicely and should continue to run well."
 In comparison, Danone of France posted 7 percent growth, while Unilever and Cadbury Schweppes posted only 2 percent growth for the first six months of this year, said Veronique Adam, an analyst for J.P. Morgan in Geneva.
 "Nestle's growth is mainly coming from price increases, we'll see if that is sustainable in the long-term," said Ms. Adam.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Thursday on the first-half earnings of Nestle, the food conglomerate, misstated the ownership of the bottled water brand Evian. It is owned by Danone, the French food group, not Nestle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, chief of Nestle, said that he expected sales to beat last year's number. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PET FOODS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); PETS (64%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (61%); WEATHER (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SARS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%); NESTLE SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NESTLE SA 

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%)

PERSON: LANGLEY, ALISON; REICHENBERGER, WOLFGANG H; BRABECK-LETMATHE, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (73%) VAUD, SWITZERLAND (73%) SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



516 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Talks Could Push North Korea Forward or Back 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Will billions of dollars in aid in exchange for North Korea ending its nuclear weapons program accelerate or reverse grudging free market moves by the world's most Communist nation?
 As envoys from the United States and Japan, the world's two largest economies, prepare for talks next week with North Korea over its nuclear weapons program, economists debate the depth of commitment to market reform in a country that once planned to ban cash. 
 A year ago, North Korea's leaders, their backs to an economic wall, abandoned a 50-year-old system of ration books and fixed prices. Now, North Korea has village markets and largely free prices. The free-market changes came after the government gave up trying to subsidize many government-owned companies to distribute food, clothing and housing to its population of 22 million. 
 In the nuclear talks, North Korea hopes to win as much as $1 billion a year in promised war reparations from Japan, the colonial power here from 1910 to 1945. North Korea also hopes to win Western economic aid and membership in the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
 South Korea has been most encouraging of this trade-off, with its president, Roh Moo-Hyun, saying last week, "When the North gives up its nuclear programs, the South is willing to take the lead in helping develop its economy."
 But the Bush administration is publicly noncommittal about offering assistance to a disastrously failed economic system. In the six-country talks that start in Beijing on Aug. 27, China, Russia and South Korea will also take part.
 "A diplomatic deal, where they will be rewarded, where we will buy peace, will have the effect of retarding economic change," predicted Marcus Noland, North Korea expert for the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "These boys make Cuba look like something out of Adam Smith."
 But Alexander Mansourov, a former Soviet economic officer in Pyongyang, said, "They are making this transition to a marketized economy." The economic reforms, he said, will be reinforced by a new generation of representatives to the Supreme People's Assembly, the nation's parliament, that opens Sept. 3.
 Hazel Smith, a British aid worker and frequent visitor to North Korea, said: "The political decisions reflect a grudging acknowledgement that they can't go back to the old ways. But if you dump a load of money into that country, you are going to have the Albania of Northeast Asia."
 The nuclear talks start against the economic backdrop that nearly 60 years of Communism and Kim family rule have left North Korea rivaling Mongolia as Northeast Asia's poorest country. South Korea's per capita income of $10,000 is 13 times that of North Korea's $770. South Korea, once the poorer of the two Koreas, now exports in two days what North Korea exports in a year. Over the last decade, North Korea's exports have fallen to $730 million, from $1.7 billion.
 In the decade since North Korea was cut adrift from Soviet subsidies, its per capita income has dropped in half, electricity shortages became chronic, and about 5 percent of the population starved to death.
 "It is not natural disasters that are to blame for the deprivation of the North Korean people, but the failed policies of Kim Jong Il," John R. Bolton, United States under secretary of state for arms control, said, referring to North Korea's hereditary leader. "His regime is directly responsible for bringing economic ruin to their country."
An agreement that was signed by the two Koreas in December 2000 and went into effect today aims to reduce the unpredictability of doing business in the North. Under the pact, the nations pledged to protect each other's investments, avoid double taxation, conduct direct financial transactions and set up a panel to settle trade disputes.
 Tentative advances of foreign investment are routinely slowed or stopped by bureaucratic whim, but some investment continues.
 By the end of the year, two north-south rail lines are to be linked. Russia plans to invest $3.3 billion in upgrading tracks through North Korea to connect the Trans-Siberian Railroad with South Korea's port of Pusan, one of the busiest container ports in the world.
 But, modern Russia is motivated by economics, not ideology. Trade with Russia has dwindled to $115 million a year, less than 10 percent of the Soviet annual average. In October, the OAO Russia Petroleum Corporation, a venture led by BP of Britain, is to sign an agreement to build a $12 billion natural gas pipeline linking Siberian fields with China and South Korea. Unlike the railroad, the gas line will bypass North Korea, following a trench on the floor of the Yellow Sea.
 While Western investors redline North Korea, South Korea labors to open the door, having invested about $1.5 billion in the last five years.
 "You see South Koreans on the plane, but it is hard to guess what they are up to," Tony Michell, president of Euro-Asian Business Consultancy, said of planes from Beijing to Pyongyang. Citing some of South Korea's biggest conglomerates, he added: "Sometimes there are whole squads of Hyundai men, Samsung men, LG men."
 Many South Koreans say North Korea's future will be as a low-wage workshop supporting the South's boom. South Korea is losing to China its low-cost labor advantage as some South Korean companies this fall adopt a five-day workweek and raise wage rates to near-American levels.
 On Aug. 25, Hyundai Asan is to take 250 South Korean business leaders to inspect the site of a future industrial park near Kaesong, North Korea. Situated 42 miles north of here, the park has drawn applications from 900 companies, largely in textiles and light manufacturing. The main attraction is a Korean-speaking labor force willing to undercut Chinese industrial wage rates.
 "We've agreed the labor cost will be $65 a month," Jeong Se Hyun, South Korea's unification minister and a coordinator in North-South relations, told reporters. "That's very competitive."
 The downside is that market access to Japan, Europe and the United States is uncertain. The United States bans imports of most goods made in North Korea. Europe and Japan are increasingly hostile because of North Korea's abysmal human rights record.
 Clouding long-term investment, low wages also depend on the continuing division of the two Koreas. The collapse of North Korea's government would inevitably provoke a huge population exodus, largely to northern China, but also by boat to South Korea and Japan. Japan's per capita income is 41 times that of North Korea.
 In a poll of 600 South Korean companies, the Federation of Korean Industries recently asked if they would open a factory in Kaesong; 55 percent said that was "unlikely" and 24 percent said "never." Skeptical respondents cited worries over electric power, road access, telephone service and business freedom.
 Those concerns have not held back Hyundai Asan, a privately held company that is something of a pioneer in opening North Korea to foreign investment, though it has nearly gone broke doing so.
 Operating a tour business to Kumgang Mountain for the last five years, Hyundai Asan has invested nearly $1 billion to take 530,000 people on tours, about $2,000 a tourist. With the tours going for as little as $400 a person, it is clear that the company has lost millions of dollars. To win friends, Hyundai's gifts to the North have included a herd of 1,000 cows, dozens of trucks, 70 luxury cars, 50,000 color televisions, and a $47 million sports stadium in Pyongyang that seats 12,300 people.
 In return, North Korea has ignored the concept of profit, suspending the tours at whim, refusing to allow overland bus access and dragging out negotiations.
 With no company willing to help Hyundai Asan, South Korean politicians now urge the Korea National Tourism Organization, a South Korean state entity, to take over what was once seen as a model for private investment in the North.
 With North Korea's economy in disarray, the nation earns from $1 billion to $2 billion a year exporting missiles, counterfeit dollars and illegal drugs, largely amphetamines to Japan, said Mr. Bolton, the American diplomat. But this summer the United States and 10 other nations formed the Proliferation Security Initiative, an alliance intended to curb North Korea's sales of contraband.
 The new chill can already be felt in Japan, which last year recorded 1,344 port calls by North Korean boats. But starting this spring, trade is falling, cash remittances are declining and Japanese legislators are preparing legislation to ban from Japanese ports ships without insurance, which would exclude most North Korean vessels.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Economists are debating the depth of commitment to market reform in North Korea, a country that once planned to ban cash. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REPARATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (68%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (50%) BROOKE, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; CHINA; RUSSIA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



517 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
'Wall Street Week' Sponsors Signed

BYLINE:  By Sherri Day 

 BODY:
Maryland Public Television in Owings Mills said yesterday that it had signed two sponsors to underwrite the fall season of "Wall Street Week With Fortune," which is being produced with Fortune magazine in New York, part of the Time Inc. division of AOL Time Warner.
 The sponsors are the Wausau Insurance Companies in Wausau, Wis., part of the Liberty Mutual Group, and the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development in Baltimore. 
Terms were not disclosed. 
 Wausau and the economic development department replace sponsors that withdrew last year, including A. G. Edwards and Occidental Petroleum, after the program's longtime host, Louis Rukeyser, was dismissed. Until now, the only corporate underwriter of the program after the departure of Mr. Rukeyser had been Kyocera Mita America, part of the Japanese company Kyocera; its sponsorship ran from January through March. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INSURANCE (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (84%); TIME INC (84%); MARYLAND DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AOL INC (72%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (57%); KYOCERA MITA AMERICA INC (56%); KYOCERA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MARYLAND PUBLIC TELEVISION; WAUSAU INSURANCE COS; DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (MD) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (72%); OXY (NYSE) (57%); KYO (NYSE) (56%); 6971 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (72%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (72%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (57%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (87%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: WALL STREET WEEK (TV PROGRAM); ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



518 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Volkswagen Wage Cuts 

BYLINE:  By John Moody (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Senior management and other nonunion workers at the Mexican plant of Volkswagen will take an 8 percent wage cut after the union agreed to a shorter workweek to maintain profit as world demand for its cars drops. The company's 9,800 unionized workers have already accepted a reduced four-day workweek to prevent 2,000 job losses as the plant's production of new Beetles and Jettas has fallen 11.2 percent so far this year on fewer exports to the United States, its main market. 
Last week the union also agreed to a 5.25 percent increase in the daily wage, slightly higher than the 4.13 percent rate of inflation in the year that ended last month. The company said the reduction in salary for 3,800 nonunion employees, including the board and top management, was decided because "if the union workers see lower wages then this should also extend to nonunion employees." John Moody (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; WORKING HOURS; SALES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

PERSON: MOODY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



519 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: TENNIS; 
The Hopes of Ireland Rest On a Player Rated 329th

BYLINE:  By RON DICKER

 BODY:
Peter Clarke is the 329th-ranked tennis player in the world, but he still carries a nation's hopes.
 Clarke is Ireland's No. 1 player. The last Irishman to distinguish himself internationally was Matt Doyle, who made the Round of 16 at the 1982 United States Open before losing to John McEnroe. 
 Yesterday, Clarke, 24, played at the U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in the first round of Open qualifying against Cristiano Caratti of Italy. Ellen Kelly sat in the small grandstand beside Court 14. She does not know Clarke and had no idea about his career. His being Irish was enough to bring her out on a sweltering afternoon.
"I didn't expect to see an Irish person here at all," said Kelly, a Belfast native who is now a bartender in New York. "They need all the support they can get."
Clarke gave Kelly just enough to cheer about. He used his crackling serve and go-for-broke forehand to defeat the light-hitting Caratti, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2. Clarke racked up an unofficial count of 15 aces, including four straight in one game in the second set.
Caratti double-faulted to hand Clarke a break and a 4-2 lead in the deciding set. Clarke blasted his way through the last two games. As Clarke left the court, an Irish-American in the stands, Mary O'Reilly, asked to pose for a picture with him.
Clarke, who is built like a rugby halfback, is recovering from a long bout of tendinitis in his right shoulder and a recent bout of sinusitis. He had lost his last three first-round matches on the Challenger circuit, a minor league for professionals. He lost to Konstantinos Economidis in three sets as a short-handed Irish team was swept by Greece, 5-0, in Davis Cup play in July.
Clarke had been reinstated after being suspended from Davis Cup play for bumping Slovenia's Marco Tlake on the way to the locker room in a Cup match last year. Clarke said it was an accident.
Ireland played against Greece without two other veteran Davis Cup team members, Sean Cooper and Stephen Nugent, who were questioned by the police in connection with the severe beating of a librarian outside a Dublin pub in April. 
Clarke is the only Irishman to be ranked above 1,400. He was born in Dublin but grew up in Australia and speaks with an Australian accent. Still, Clarke's travel expenses for tennis had been partly financed by Ireland's tennis federation. In 1999, he returned with his parents to live about 45 minutes outside Dublin.
Earlier this season, before injury and illness hit, Clarke showed promise. He won a Futures tournament in March and another in April, both without dropping a set. If he does not continue to improve in the next year or two, he said he would consider coaching, or attending college.
In the meantime, in the second round of qualifying today, Clarke will face the American Kevin Kim, a 3-6, 6-1, 6-2 winner over Marc Rosset, a former top-10 player.
"If I can play 12 months injury-free, I have a chance to move up in the rankings," Clarke said. "I like to be aggressive on the court. If I can temper that and play well on the big points, I can do it."
Kelly, the bartender, had one thing for Clarke to consider on his way up the ladder.
"He's a little flat-footed," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); RANKINGS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (63%); SINUSITIS (63%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%) Tennis; Ratings and Rating Systems; United States Open (Tennis)

PERSON: Ron Dicker; Peter Clarke

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (91%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (72%); NORTHERN IRELAND (58%) Ireland 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



520 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Let the Fight For Peace Begin 

BYLINE:  By Martin Indyk; Martin Indyk, director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, was ambassador to Israel from 1995 to 1997 and from 2000 to 2001.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The bomb that killed at least 18 Israelis on a Jerusalem bus Tuesday now threatens to destroy the Bush administration's peace plan. While President Bush should try to salvage the so-called road map, he should also realize that it remains fundamentally flawed. Not until a Palestinian leadership emerges that is capable of dismantling the infrastructure of terrorism will the peace process move forward -- with or without a road map.
 Trying to save the road map is a worthwhile cause; both sides have already agreed to it, and it represents the best chance for restoring immediate order. Sooner rather than later, however, a much bolder approach will be called for: an international protectorate, led by the United States, that would put the Palestinian territories in trust and supervise the establishment of a Palestinian state with democratic political institutions, a transparent economic structure, an independent judiciary and an effective security force. 
 How can President Bush help make this ideal a reality? He needs to start by making it clear to both Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister, that he expects them to cooperate with a new American initiative to salvage the road map.
Like other peace plans before it, the road map is beset by paralysis. From the moment the president unveiled it in June 2002, it has been all too apparent that the Palestinian Authority's lack of capacity to fulfill its commitments would place the whole process in jeopardy.
Mr. Abbas and Muhammad Dahlan, the Palestinian security minister, cannot and will not act against terrorist groups until they gain greater popular support from Palestinians. To achieve this support, they need Israel to remove settlement outposts and checkpoints, release prisoners in significant numbers and withdraw the Israeli Defense Forces from West Bank cities and towns. But Mr. Sharon cannot make serious moves in these areas until Mr. Abbas and Mr. Dahlan act against the terrorist infrastructure.
To break this cycle, the Bush administration should negotiate a package deal: the Palestinians would agree to act against Fatah, Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad. The Israelis would agree to dismantle the outposts, freeze settlement activity and withdraw the Israeli Defense Forces from Palestinian territory. The United States would then act as guarantor, developing a detailed monitoring and reporting plan to ensure that each side carries out its commitments fully and promptly.
This deal, however, would need to be tailored to existing Palestinian security capacities. Instead of insisting on a general and currently impossible effort to dismantle the terrorist infrastructure, the United States should work with Mr. Dahlan to define feasible security tasks. These should include the arrests of the people in Hebron and Nablus who dispatched the most recent suicide bombers, the closing of Hamas's rocket factories in southern Gaza and action against the gangs in Rafah responsible for smuggling weapons from Egypt to Gaza. The United States should also identify the appropriate Israeli responses, like the withdrawal of its forces from West Bank cities where the Palestinian Authority is about to assume control.
There is nothing especially new about this approach. The rebuilding of the peace process has always required reciprocal steps. What is novel, however, is the role of the United States: it would act as guarantor and monitor of each step. Thus both prime ministers would know that if they took the necessary political risks in confronting Palestinian terrorists or Israeli settlers, the United States would ensure the other side did its part.
In the meantime, the president needs to act more quickly and effectively in restructuring the Palestinian security services to help Mr. Abbas and Mr. Dahlan battle terrorists. At this point only a fraction of Palestinian security services are under their control; the rest still answer to Yasir Arafat, who has no interest in cooperating with an effort that would rob him of his residual relevance.
Ultimately, however, the president must recognize that all such efforts to implement the road map are necessary but not sufficient. They constitute a salvage project that is still likely to fall short of generating the responsible, capable Palestinian partner Mr. Bush must have to realize his ambition of a democratic Palestinian state.
For that vision to be achieved, a more comprehensive approach will be required. With United Nations backing, the United States should establish a trusteeship for Palestine, relieving Mr. Arafat of his power and providing an American-led force to fight terrorists alongside the Palestinian security services.
The United States would have to supervise Palestinian reformers in their efforts to build accountable institutions. It would have to recruit the young Palestinian nationalists who have now fought Israel in two uprisings to the task of Palestinian state-building. And it would need Israel to cooperate by withdrawing the Israeli Defense Forces from Palestinian territories and evacuating sufficient settlements to provide contiguous territory to the Palestinian state-in-the-making.
Many within and outside the administration can be expected to oppose nation-building in Palestine, especially in view of the difficult experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq. From all accounts President Bush is sincere about creating a democratic Palestinian state living in peace next to a secure Israel. But it should be clear by now that the road map alone won't get him there.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article yesterday about the Mideast incorrectly stated that President Bush unveiled the road map for peace in June 2002. The plan was not officially published until April 30 of this year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leah Hayes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL FATAH (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SMUGGLING (60%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%) INDYK, MARTIN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (79%) ISRAEL; JERUSALEM

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



521 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Oregon, in Crisis, Finally Balances Budget 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
After the longest budget stalemate in its history, the Oregon Legislature, wrestling with a severe economic crisis and heavy infighting, finally balanced its budget yesterday. 
 Oregon, like virtually every other state, is grappling with a revenue shortage this year. But it was one of the hardest-hit states in the downturn, and it has the highest unemployment rate, at 8.1 percent in July, said the federal Labor Department. 
 Last school year, the state closed schools early or extended vacations in almost half of its 200 districts because of budget troubles that surfaced last winter. 
Until yesterday, Oregon, seven weeks into its new fiscal year, was one of three states that had no budget, forcing school districts to guess how much money to spend on teachers, books and other items as the new school year approached. 
The two states without final budgets are New Hampshire and Pennsylvania, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Both face minor sticking points and had appeared to be moving much faster toward compromise than Oregon. 
In Oregon, plans to approve an $11.6 billion budget collapsed over the summer amid deep ideological divisions in the Legislature. 
Republicans and Democrats had agreed on the spending plan. But a battle raged over $1.5 billion in revenue, pitting Republicans who refused to raise taxes against Democrats who refused to cut school financing and social services further. 
With the House of Representatives approving a plan to raise most of the money through a three-year income tax surcharge that would be repealed in two years if the economy improves, the longest legislative summer for the state ended. 
Moderate Republicans had devised the plan that the House approved, 36 to 22, and that the Senate passed on Tuesday, 19 to 11. Opponents, mostly Republicans furious at the prospect of raising taxes, had harsh words for supporters. 
"Most people will do almost anything to get out of the building," said Randy Miller, a West Linn Republican who voted against the plan and is chairman of the House Budget Committee and a co-chairman of the Joint Ways and Means Committee. "Including going against their good judgment."
The message behind the plan for raising revenue, Mr. Miller said, is "that if there's someone still out there in Oregon with a paycheck, let's take some of it."
It now goes to Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski, a Democrat, who issued a statement saying he would sign it.
Mr. Kulongoski said: "It contains a temporary income tax increase, which I said in January I would not support, but is a last resort to secure a full school year for our children. I also said in January that children are my first priority and that providing jobs for Oregonians and growing the economy should be our objective."
Representative Deborah Kafoury, a Portland Democrat who voted for the package, said legislators had no choice but to raise revenue through the surcharge to open the schools for a full year and finance other programs that would have been eliminated without the added revenue.
"While I don't think it was the perfect answer to our problem here in Oregon," Ms. Kafoury said, "I don't think we had any other choice. This is in the truest sense a barebones bipartisan compromise."
In a state where voters have consistently turned down tax increases and where referendums are often used as the vehicle to do that, many in Oregon political circles are expecting the surcharge to face a challenge by ballot in the coming years.
Still, the resolution of the stalemate brought relief to people like Kay Baker, superintendent of the Salem-Keizer Public Schools in the capital region, where programs for many of the 37,000 students had been in limbo for months. The budget allots $5.2 million to the schools, several hundred thousand dollars more than districts expected. 
"That's pretty exciting, it really is," Ms. Baker said, adding that her district could now plan to reduce class sizes and add literacy programs that had been eliminated.
"I think now we can move ahead," she said. "I am sure that there will be talk about referendums. But as a school district, at some point we need to recognize that kids will be here on Sept. 2, and we need to move ahead." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (56%)

PERSON: TED KULONGOSKI (78%) KERSHAW, SARAH; KULONGOSKI, THEODORE R (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) OREGON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) OREGON

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



522 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: The Recall Debate Begins 

 BODY:
The celebrity power of Arnold Schwarzenegger, the action-movie star who would be California's governor, was graphically clear yesterday as a corps of reporters worthy of Oscar night clamored to record his first substantial words on the state's crippling fiscal crisis. Through the glare and handsome set design of the event, the state's voters heard the candidate rule out tax increases and promise some sort of spending cuts as his solution to the state's rolling budget deficits. Critical if vague differences have thus begun emerging among the better known figures on the prodigious slate of 135 candidates. We hope the October recall vote will veer even further from the carnival grounds where it has been capering and beeping. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger showed practiced theatricality but was hardly specific in saying what services he would cut to close an $8 billion deficit, emphasizing that he tells his children, "Don't spend more than you have." There's a message he should share with his fellow Republicans now controlling the deficit-swollen federal government. In contrast, Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, a Democrat, is taking more chances with the tax-wary electorate and offering a mix of tax increases and largely unspecified program cuts. He calls it "tough love," just as Mr. Schwarzenegger talked, by contrast, of the singular need to "cut to save the patient." 
 One measure of the fractured state of California politics is that Mr. Bustamante, knowing that the Legislature is paralyzed by partisanship, is promising to go directly to the voters with his program. He would float yet another ballot initiative, adding one more to the hundreds that have hobbled the state's taxes, spending and political options for a generation.
For his part, Mr. Schwarzenegger carefully made a point of genuflecting at the populist shrine of Proposition 13 -- the 1987 initiative that cut property taxes in half and tightly limited their growth at the hands of elected officials. He grinned and glossed over the criticism by Warren Buffett, his billionaire friend and chief economic adviser, that California has a grave revenue problem because of that proposition.
There is no denying that a choice is emerging for the voters, whether they buy into such positions as Mr. Schwarzenegger's triage, Mr. Bustamante's tough love or the right-wing plot that Gov. Gray Davis envisions as he fights the recall effort. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Thursday misstated the year when California approved Proposition 13. It was 1978.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); BALLOTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) EDITORIALS; RECALL (ELECTIONS); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; BUSTAMANTE, CRUZ (LT GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



523 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Utilities in Midwest Alerted To Risks in Electrical Grid
Three months before the biggest blackout in North American history, the agency charged with protecting the electrical grid put industry officials on notice that the section of the grid covering Ohio and other parts of the Midwest was vulnerable to the kind of "cascading events" that unfolded last Thursday.
 Officials with the North American Electric Reliability Council, in a report that singled out the Midwest as the only part of the country at risk of such a devastating event, said the region could face "large, unanticipated power flows," and would have to be prepared to handle the challenges. Page A1. 

Montana residents used to pay some of the lowest rates for power in the Northwest, but now they pay the region's second-highest because of deregulation. A16.

Dillard's Loss Bigger Than Expected
Dillard's reported a wider-than-expected quarterly loss as weak sales prompted discounting. The company cut prices to try to clear out excess inventory. An executive said Dillard's would probably end the quarter with higher summer clothing inventory than last year, which could lead to more discounts. C5.

AOL May Add Video to Messages
The Federal Communications Commission permitted AOL Time Warner to add video to itsAOL instant messaging service, ending a restriction dating back to the merger of AOL and Time Warner in 2001. C5.

Monsanto and Solutia Settle Claims
Monsanto and Solutia agreed to pay $700 million to settle claims by 20,000 Alabama residents over PCB contamination. C4.

ABC News Producer to Join CBS
Victor Neufeld, a producer and executive at ABC News, is leaving to become the No. 2 producer of the CBS News morning program, "The Early Show." C4.

UBS Settles S.E.C. Accusations
UBS agreed to pay $500,000 to settle accusations by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it failed to supervise a broker who bilked clients out of $68 million. C2.

Hewlett Damps Mood on Wall St.
Stocks ended lower as disappointing results from Hewlett-Packard weighed on blue chips. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 31.39 points, to 9,397.51, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.05 points, to 1,000.30. The Nasdaq composite index fell just 0.57 of a point, to 1,760.54. C6.

Strong Franc Reduces Nestle Profit
First-half profits at Nestle fell by half from the period a year ago, shaken by a strong Swiss franc and a one-time gain last year. But Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, the chief executive, expects the company's full-year net income and sales to beat last year's number, with the North American market leading the way. World Business, Section W.

Brazil Cuts a Crucial Interest Rate
The central bank of Brazil cut 2.5 percentage points off its overnight interest rate, lowering the important lending rate to 22 percent. World Business, Section W.

Buffett Stakes May Be Made Public
Warren E. Buffett lost a bid for confidentiality from the Securities and Exchange Commission, meaning the public may learn which stocks Mr. Buffett was buying last fall. C6.

He Dickers, She Doesn't
Why are women more likely than men to pay the sticker price? A book delves into the mystery. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,397.51 down 31.39Nasdaq composite -- 1,760.54 down 0.5710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.43% up 0.07The euro -- $1.1122 down 0.0006The dollar -- 118.02 yen down 0.38 Graph: "TODAY" shows leading indicators from January to June. Leading IndicatorsJuly figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Dillard's shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (79%); DEREGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); UTILITY RATES (74%); HISTORY (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INSTANT MESSAGING (71%); MERGERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (83%); MONSANTO CO (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); NESTLE SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (83%); MON (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); NESN (SWX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



524 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Tries to Add Some Substance to Celebrity 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF and JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger came out from behind the curtain today to put some muscle in a campaign that until now was based on sheer celebrity, calling for a constitutional cap on state spending and making clear his distaste for new taxes.
 Facing a horde of cameras and reporters from as far away as China, Mr. Schwarzenegger, 56, was flanked by his advisers, Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor, and George P. Shultz, former secretary of state. Using humor and a few specifics, the former Mr. Olympia tried to dispel any perception that he is a movie star on a vanity project. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said one of his priorities, should he be elected to replace Gov. Gray Davis, would be to rein in state spending. He said he would appoint an outside auditor, John Cogan, the economist and Mr. Shultz's colleague, to look at state finances. 
"We must have a constitutional spending cap and must immediately attack operating deficits head on," Mr. Schwarzenegger told a ballroom packed with reporters at the Westin Hotel near Los Angeles International Airport.
"Does that mean we are going to make cuts?" he said. "Yes. Does this mean education is on the table? No. Does this mean I am willing to raise taxes? No. Additional taxes are the last burden we need to put on the backs of the citizens and businesses of California."
Mr. Schwarzenegger spoke on a day when Judge Stephen V. Wilson of United States District Court moved to keep the Oct. 7 recall election on schedule, rejecting an effort by the American Civil Liberties Union to delay the vote until March. 
Another candidate, Peter V. Ueberroth, former baseball commissioner and chairman of the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles also began his campaign by pledging that if elected he would cut state general fund spending by 5 percent and limit state spending to a formula based on population growth and inflation.
Mr. Schwarzenegger said he would not provide specifics on budget cuts during the campaign. "The public doesn't care about figures," he said. "What the people want to hear is, are you willing to make the changes. Are you tough enough to go in there and provide leadership. "
The actor, who has drawn the ire of his party's conservative base because of his moderate stance on social issues, made clear that when it comes to economics he is philosophically opposed to tax increases. Still, he said he would not commit to the kind of "no new taxes" pledge that haunted his mentor and friend, the former President George Bush.
In a town hall-style meeting tonight at a Los Angeles television studio, Governor Gray Davis said it might be necessary to raise taxes to preserve state programs. 
"It's fun for Arnold to say 'no new taxes,' " Mr. Davis said. "You just ask him, 'Where are the cuts?' " 
In his appearance, Mr. Schwarzenegger said, "I feel the people of California have been punished enough. From the time they get up in the morning and flush the toilet they're taxed. When they go get a coffee they're taxed. When they get in their car they're taxed. When they go to the gas station they're taxed. When they go to lunch they're taxed. This goes on all day long. Tax. Tax. Tax. Tax. Tax."
This weekend a hullabaloo enveloped the Schwarzenegger camp after Mr. Buffett suggested to The Wall Street Journal that state property taxes needed to be increased. The idea instantly riled Republicans in a state known for the tax rebellion that pushed through Proposition 13 and its limits on property tax increases.
Today, Mr. Schwarzenegger gave an unequivocal promise that he would not seek to alter the property tax structure, while chastising Mr. Buffett.
"First of all, I told Warren if he mentions Prop. 13 one more time he has to do 500 situps," he said.
Mr. Buffett gave a crooked smile.
Mr. Schwarzenegger said that he would also ask the federal government to help defray the costs of illegal immigration and that he did not support Proposition 54, which would prohibitthe state from collecting racial data. That initiative will appear on the same ballot as the recall on Oct. 7.
His outlook today was decidedly pro-business. Among the 18 members of his Economic Recovery Council, whom he met with this morning, were titans of business and finance and economics professors. There were no union representatives or consumer advocates.
His presentation today helped cast the recall campaign along traditional party lines despite the oddities of a 135 candidate race. On Tuesday, Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, a Democrat who appears to be the main challenger to Mr. Schwarzenegger, according to recent polls, displayed a very different economic plan, which analysts said was bound to be contentious.
Mr. Bustamante, who defied Governor Davis's call for Democrats to stay off the recall ballot, said he would seek to restructure Proposition 13, allowing the state to reassess commercial property and tax it at its current value. This would require a constitutional amendment, an unlikely prospect, experts agree. He also proposed a tax increase on the top 4 percent of earners, an increase in cigarette and alcohol taxes and a half-billion dollar crackdown on Medi-Cal fraud.
Mr. Schwarzenegger was engaging and seemed to regain the self-confidence that had eluded him thus far in this campaign.
The scene was decidedly different a few miles away at the Biltmore Hotel in downtown Los Angeles, where Mr. Ueberroth was starting his campaign. About a dozen reporters and four television cameras attended.
Mr. Ueberroth, 65, promised a campaign based on "truth, substance and specifics." He vowed that he would not attack other candidates or respond to their criticism.
Mr. Ueberroth said his campaign would focus on solving the state's budget problems and rebuilding its faltering economy. Besides making his pledge to limit state spending, he said he would institute a statewide hiring freeze, renegotiate state employee union contracts and eliminate fraud from the state's Medicaid program.
He also proposed a one-time amnesty for those with delinquent tax bills, which he said could raise as much as $6 billion. He said he would not seek to alter the Proposition 13 cap on property tax increases for homeowners. 
Mr. Ueberroth said that if he were elected he would not seek re-election in 2006, nor would he accept a salary. He said he expected to spend about $10 million on his campaign, with roughly a third coming from his own pocket.
"California is in a mess, a real mess, but we can get out of the mess and be great again," he said.
The appearances sent the campaign into high gear a day after Mr. Davis called on Californians to help him fight the recall, which he characterized as a "right-wing power grab."
And for now, at least, there appeared to be little chance of turning back after the federal court ruling against delaying the recall.The American Civil Liberties Union had argued that because Los Angeles, San Diego and several other counties were still using discredited punch-card voting machines a large number of votes would be improperly counted. It asked the court to delay the election until next March. Judge Wilson said the election should take place as scheduled.
"The recall election in particular is an extraordinary, and in this case, unprecedented exercise of public sentiment," the judge said in his order today. "Implicit in a recall election, and explicit in the time frame provided by the California Constitution, is a strong public interest in promptly determining whether a particular elected official should remain in office."
The civil liberties association said it would appeal the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco. 
Democratic party officials said today that Ann Lewis, the White House communications director during President Clinton's impeachment case, would temporarily move to California to groups opposing the recall.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has reinforcements, too, but said he wanted to put one rumor to rest.
"Rob Lowe is not a senior adviser," he said. "Nor is he an adviser. But you know how it is in Hollywood with the publicity agents."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter V. Ueberroth kicking off his campaign for governor yesterday. (Photo by Reuters); Arnold Schwarzenegger at his news conference yesterday, flanked by former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, left, and the investor Warren E. Buffett, members of a council advising him on economic matters. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); OLYMPICS (67%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (66%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BASEBALL (63%); TRENDS (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); AIRPORTS (52%) RECALL (ELECTIONS); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; CONSTITUTIONS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%) ;AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (94%); WARREN BUFFETT (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); STEPHEN R WILSON (68%) LEDUFF, CHARLIE; BRODER, JOHN M; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; BUFFETT, WARREN; SHULTZ, GEORGE P; COGAN, JOHN; WILSON, STEPHEN V (JUDGE); UEBERROTH, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



525 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Opposition Files to Seek Referendum on Chavez 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Venezuelan opposition groups today presented elections officials with 3.2 million signatures calling for the removal of President Hugo Chavez, the first step in a new effort to oust the leftist leader through a constitutional recall referendum.
 Hundreds of thousands of antigovernment demonstrators clogged streets in the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, after opposition leaders presented the petitions to the National Electoral Council. The council has 30 days to verify the validity of the signatures, and a referendum must be held within 60 days after that. 
 "The recall referendum clears the way for the reconstruction of the country, for the reconciliation of all Venezuelans," Alejandro Armas, an opposition leader, told reporters after presenting the request. 
Televised images showed boisterous opponents of the president carrying flags and blowing whistles as they celebrated today's events.
But it still appeared likely that a referendum, facing an array of legal hurdles, is months away. Officials in the government said they had problems with the collection of the signatures.
The Bush administration has strongly supported a referendum to resolve the political tumult in Venezuela, an oil-rich country of 25 million. Stability in Venezuela is crucial to American policy makers, who see the Andean country as a critical component in the supply chain of oil to the United States.
Under the Venezuelan Constitution, a referendum is allowed halfway through the president's six-year term. Mr. Chavez, who was re-elected in 2000, reached that milestone on Tuesday.
"The possibility of a recall exists," Alfredo Avella, president of the electoral council, told reporters today.
For an opposition led by a haphazard coalition of big businessmen, labor groups and news organization owners, today's action was the latest stage in a 19-month effort aimed at toppling Mr. Chavez. The opposition failed to remove the president with a coup in April last year and four national strikes that left the economy, Latin America's fourth largest, in tatters.
After the latest strike, a two-month effort that shut down the state-owned oil industry, the opposition agreed to employ only legal means to remove Mr. Chavez. In May, the two sides signed an accord, brokered by the Organization of American States, in which they settled on an electoral solution as the way to resolve the country's stalemate.
The 3.2 million signatures the opposition says it collected surpasses the 20 percent of registered voters needed to seek a referendum. A referendum would ask voters whether or not they want Mr. Chavez as president, possibly leading to his recall and an election that could install a new leader.
Still, there are major obstacles. 
The most immediate is that a new electoral board must be chosen to oversee the recall. The Supreme Court has said it will pick the board, possibly by early next week, since the deeply divided Congress was unable to do so after months of wrangling.
Meanwhile, government officials say the process by which the signatures were collected in recent months was illegitimate. They say the signatures could be collected only after the half-way point of the president's term and that they could be verified only by a new electoral board, not the one in place today.
Government allies have also charged that many of the signatures collected so far are fake, a claim the president repeated this week during a state visit to Argentina.
"We have information that those signatures were falsified," Nicolas Maduro, a government supporter in the National Assembly, said earlier this month.
Polling companies in Caracas have said that if a referendum on Mr. Chavez's rule was held, two of every three Venezuelans would vote to remove him. Government officials, though, have cast doubts on the reliability of the polls, saying the owners of the polling companies maintain close ties with opposition leaders.
Mr. Chavez's government came under further pressure today from Colombia, where President Alvaro Uribe said that he had asked Mr. Chavez to tell Colombia's largest rebel group that he was open to starting peace negotiations. The comments are considered a rebuke of Mr. Chavez's government, which has been accused by some Colombian army generals of harboring rebels from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands rallied in Caracas yesterday calling for removal of President Hugo Chavez. A coalition filed recall petitions with 3.2 million signatures. (Photo by Kimberly White for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RIOTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECALL (ELECTIONS); REFERENDUMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ORGANIZED LABOR; ELECTIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) VENEZUELA; CARACAS (VENEZUELA)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



526 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: $700 Million Settlement in Alabama PCB Lawsuit 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Solutia Inc. and the Monsanto Company have agreed to pay $700 million to settle claims by more than 20,000 Anniston residents over PCB contamination, plaintiff's lawyers said today.
 The agreement, which will end a long-running trial in state court over decades-old pollution from a chemical plant in the east Alabama city, includes payments to homeowners and cash to finance a PCB research laboratory, lawyers for the residents said in a statement. 
 The two companies said the settlement called for $600 million in cash. Monsanto will pay $390 million, Solutia will pay $50 million and the rest will be covered by insurance, according to a statement from Monsanto. 
Costs for clean-up, prescription drug and other programs detailed in the agreement will push the total amount to more than $700 million, said Stacy Smith, a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs' lawyers. Another plaintiff's lawyer, Jere Beasley, said the total would surpass $800 million.
Jurors already had awarded more than $100 million in verdicts against the companies in the trial, which began more than a year ago.
Experts expected the judgments to go much higher in the trial, which was expected to last months more.
The deal also avoided a federal trial set for this fall over contamination from polychlorinated biphenyls, a once-common electrical insulator banned in the 1970's amid health concerns.
Solutia, in a quarterly financial report last week, said it was considering filing for bankruptcy protection partly because of the economic costs of environmental lawsuits.
Solutia, based in St. Louis, agreed to a $40 million settlement in a previous federal case over PCB contamination in Anniston, and another lawsuit over waterway pollution was settled for $43.7 million.
The settlement should help the company avoid bankruptcy because it "removes a burden from us and puts us in a better position to address upcoming liabilities we face," a Solutia spokesman, Glenn Ruskin, said.
The Anniston plant made PCB's near a neighborhood in west Anniston for decades while operating as Monsanto. Solutia later was spun off from Monsanto, which is also based in St. Louis.
A federal judge in Birmingham recently approved an agreement reached between Solutia and the Environmental Protection Agency for a cleanup and studies of the contamination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (91%); CHLORINE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PLASTICS (74%); JUDGES (73%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); APPROVALS (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (54%) WATER POLLUTION; BANKRUPTCIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; PCB (POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS); SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: SOLUTIA INC (98%); MONSANTO CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO; SOLUTIA INC 

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%) SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESINS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (72%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) ANNISTON (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003 



527 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Counterculture Pulse 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
LAST August, Phil Hartman, an East Village resident since 1980, looked around his neighborhood and decided he didn't like what he saw.
 Sitting with his daughters at Avenue B and East Second Street, he said, he found his eyes were drawn in particular to a Duane Reade drug store on the ground floor of a generic luxury apartment building on the site of an old performance space called the Gas Station. 
 "I was just thinking, 'What kind of neighborhood do I want my daughter to live in?' " Mr. Hartman said. "Do we want it to be a place with Duane Reade and luxury condos and look like every other neighborhood? Or do we want something else?" 
While pharmacies and condominiums may not seem like a scourge to most people, for Mr. Hartman the gentrification of Avenue B was a sad departure from the old East Village, that freewheeling bohemia called home by generations of artists, including the writers Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac, thepainters Willem de Kooning and Keith Haring and rock bands like the Ramones and the Talking Heads.
In more recent years, however, the neighborhood has been increasingly known for its upscale bars and restaurants and, yes, its chain stores and million-dollar apartments -- developments that sent many of the East Village's artists fleeing to more affordable, less gentrified areas in Brooklyn and Queens.
So Mr. Hartman, 48, a filmmaker and, with his wife, Doris, the owner of the Two Boots pizza chain, decided to do something to show that the old neighborhood still had an artistic pulse.
Or perhaps more aptly, a growl.
A result is the Howl! festival, a weeklong outpouring of artistic energy and counterculture mania that began on Tuesday night and runs through this coming Tuesday. Like the Ginsberg poem it is named for, it promises to be wild, brash and not especially heavy on structure.
Some 260 events are scheduled at more than 50 locations around the East Village and Lower East Side, including Tompkins Square Park, the town square of the neighborhood, which will be the site of a poetry festival tonight; Wigstock, the oh-so-fabulous drag spectacle, tomorrow; and a jazz festival on Sunday. 
The performers and artists expected to perform or show their work in the festival include the rocker Lou Reed (who flew in from a visit to Sri Lanka), the actor Steve Buscemi, the performance artist Karen Finley, Jon Ingle (better known as Lady Bunny, drag queen), members of the band Sonic Youth and the filmmaker Jim Jarmusch. All of which could be either a delight or a deluge.
"In the 60's, there were just 50 of us great people, and we all just hung out," said Taylor Mead, the 78-year-old poet and Andy Warhol acolyte, who still lives on Ludlow Street. "Now it's all over the place."
Indeed, the Howl! festival could almost be faulted for trying to shove a little too much into one week. But Mr. Hartman says that's the idea.
"There's still tons of artists here," he said. "They've just kind of been beaten down over the last few years. This is their defibrillator."

Playing Against Type
In many ways, the Howl! festival is made up of many smaller festivals grouped under one banner. In addition to the poetry and jazz festivals (named for Ginsberg and Charlie Parker, another onetime East Villager), there's a film festival (which began on Wednesday and runs through the week) and a bluegrass festival on Sunday. It overlaps with the last weekend of the New York International Fringe Festival, though the two festivals are not associated.
There's also a fair bit of playing against type. The rocking Mr. Reed, for example, will be reading poetry, while Mr. Buscemi showed off his skills as a filmmaker on Wednesday.
Ms. Finley, meanwhile, who made her name as a racy provocateur (think chocolate, nudity, yams) in the performance art world, is scheduled to lead a panel, of all things.
She promises it will not simply be an opportunity to moan about the good old days, days that, truth be told, weren't always all that good.
"I look at the East Village as being similar to a person," she said. "I think we have a feeling about people, that we look down on them when they are successful. But I like the fact the neighborhood and New York as a whole is successful."

The Changing Streets
For all the wistful longing for the neighborhood's artistic heyday, it is easy to forget that in the late 1980's and early 90's, the East Village was often a little too edgy. In 1988 the police and protesters clashed violently at Tompkins Square Park in a riot that left dozens of people injured and resulted in more than 100 complaints of police brutality.
In the mid-90's, however, as the city's economy improved and the crack epidemic subsided, the neighborhood's rents and respectability began to rise. An unfortunate side effect was a slow squeezing of the low-budget arts spaces, theaters and galleries that had made the neighborhood appealing in the first place.
One of the last straws, for many old-timers, was the closing of the Charas/El Bohio Cultural Center in 2001, which was bought by developers with an eye to making it into luxury housing.
The neighborhood also began to lose some of the events that had been born there, like Wigstock, which started in 1984 when a group of tipsy drag queens presented an impromptu show in Tompkins Square Park. Mr. Hartman said one of the first people he reached out to with the Howl! idea was Mr. Ingle (a k a Lady Bunny) to revive Wigstock, which moved to the West Village in 1994 and has been dormant since 2001. (Mr. Ingle was not persuaded to stage the show, however, until Valentine's Day, when Mr. Hartman won him over with a giant heart-shaped pizza.)
Among those expected to perform at Wigstock are Lypsinka (a k a John Epperson), who says Howl! is necessary to give a voice to one of the city's most precious resources: eccentrics.
"The kooks are on their way out," said Mr. Epperson, who came to the East Village in 1978. "The corporations are slowly sucking away our individuality, turning us all into the same person. The kooks are dying off."

'Screech of Anarchy'
There will nevertheless be quite a bit of unequivocal bizarreness at Howl!, including an effort to break the Guinness record for the most people dancing the Locomotion, and a Saturday night appearance by the band Mini-Kiss, four midgets who cover the songs and makeup styles of the heavy metal band Kiss.
But as Mr. Epperson suggests, much of the entertainment is likely to have a distinct anti-establishment tone. On Tuesday the festival's first event featured the Reverend Billy, a performance artist, railing against corporate America in an old-fashioned revival meeting at St. Marks Church.
Bob Holman, the founder of the Bowery Poetry Club, says he hopes the festival will be "a screech of anarchy and a Love Boat of chaos." (Translation: I have absolutely no idea.)
"For the East Village to get chain stores goes against the American grain," Mr. Holman said. "But it is not easy, in a Republi-crat economy, to maintain a sense of spontaneity and free speech. That's what Howl! is about and that's what a howl is: the physicalization of speech."

A Rowdy History
That said, many events at Howl! also represent the aging of those rebellious young things who were some of the first urban trailblazers in the neighborhood. Several events are geared for children, including a carnival tomorrow and Sunday on East 10th Street, complete with face painting, puppet-making workshops and rides. (And how about Mr. Holman, the fiery poet, reading Dr. Seuss stories tomorrow?)
That's not to say it might not be a little rowdy, especially after dark and considering the neighborhood's history.
During last week's blackout, throngs of people filled Tompkins Square Park to build a giant bonfire, and people danced and played drums until dawn.
And at a party on Wednesday night at the Angel Orensanz Center for the Arts on Norfolk Street, several hundred people danced and sang, hooted and hollered, smoked and drank.
An open bar and an art auction were both well attended. It began at 7 p.m. and ran well past midnight.

Against the Grain
Mr. Hartman says he hopes it all will be just another chapter in the neighborhood's long history of going against the grain.
"You can place the seeds of the counterculture here back 150 years and follow it through de Kooning and Joe Papp and Kerouac and Ginsberg," he said. "It's a really deep-rooted countercultural community. And I think it's essential that it always is."

When and Where

"Howl! The First Festival of East Village Arts," which continues through Tuesday, includes some 260 events at more than 50 sites in the East Village. Admission ranges from free to $50. Information: (212) 505-2225 or www.howlfestival.com. A sampling of events:

Music

"EAST VILLAGE GUITAR HEROES," featuring Lenny Kaye of the Patti Smith Group and Gary Lucas, formerly of Captain Beefheart. Tonight at 7 at Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place. Tickets: $15. Telecharge: (212) 239-6200. Information: (212) 539-8770.

"CHARLIE PARKER JAZZ FESTIVAL," an annual tribute, with performances by Lonnie Plaxico, Jeff Watts, Arthur Blythe and Charles McPherson. Sunday from 3 to 7 p.m. at Tompkins Square Park, Avenue A and Seventh Street. Sponsored by the City Parks Foundation. Free. Information: www.cityparksfoundation.org.

"BLUEGRASS BALL," with Laura Cantrel as host and featuring Citizen Kafka, the Demolition String Band, Danny Weiss and Mary Olive Smith's Bluegrass Breakdown and John Herald. A free concert on Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. at the Avenue A stage at 11th Street. Also Sunday, from 5 to 11 p.m., performances with additional bands at the Parkside Lounge, 317 East Houston Street. Tickets: $5. Information: (212) 673-6270.

JESSIE MALIN, a local rock star, with the Witnesses, Madison Strays and NYCSmoke. Sunday at 8 p.m. at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery. Tickets: $13 in advance; $15 at the door; at the Bowery box office or through Ticketmaster, (212) 307-5577 or (866) 879-6662. Information: (212) 533-2111.

Theater

"GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS CRAZY SEXY LIVE GIRLS WORKING THEIR WAY THROUGH COLLEGE," a play, based on the fairy tale "Little Red Riding Hood," about life in a strip club. Tonight at 10 and tomorrow at 5 p.m. at Collective: Unconscious, 145 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side. Tickets: $12. Information: (212) 254-5277.

"THE ME NOBODY KNOWS," a free sneak preview of a revival of the award-winning show based on the writings of inner-city children. Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Midway Stage, in the northwest corner of Tompkins Square Park, Avenue A and 10th Street. Information: (212) 505-2225.

Poetry

"ALLEN GINSBERG POETRY FESTIVAL," a free celebration of the poet's life and works, with readings by Anne Waldman, Bob Holman, Miguel Algarin, Pedro Pietri, Andy Clausen, Eliot Katz and Bob Rosenthal. Today from 5 to 7:30 p.m. at the Tompkins Square Park Bandshell, Avenue A and Seventh Street. The festival continues next week at the Bowery Poetry Club, Nuyorican Poet's Cafe, A Gathering of Tribes and St. Mark's Poetry Project. Information: (212) 505-2225

"LOU REED AND FRIENDS." An evening of rock poetry with Lou Reed, Karen Finley, Thurston Moore and Lee Ranaldo. Sunday at 9 p.m. at Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place. A benefit for the Federation of East Village Artists. Tickets: $50. Telecharge: (212) 239-6200. Information: (212) 539-8770.

Film

"LIVE FROM SHIVA'S DANCE FLOOR," a new short film by Richard Linklater. Daily through Tuesday at 6 p.m. at the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street.Tickets: $6.50. Information: (212) 254-3300.

Miscellaneous

"HOWL JR.," a carnival for all ages with readings from the Dr. Seuss books, Afro-Cuban Bomba music, a puppet show and an accordion orchestra. Tomorrow and Sunday, from noon to 7 p.m., at the Midway Stage, in the northwest corner of Tompkins Square Park, Avenue A and 10th Street. Free. Information: (212) 505-2225.

WIGSTOCK. The legendary drag show with Lady Bunny as host returns to Tompkins Square Park. Free. Tomorrow, 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Information: (212) 505-2225

"EAST VILLAGE SAFARI," a series of cultural walking tours led by performance artists. Tickets: $10. Meets in Astor Place at 5 p.m. daily through Tuesday. Information: (212) 673-4182.

"LARGEST LOCOMOTION." A free outdoor dance session will try to break the Guinness world record for the most people dancing the Locomotion and simultaneously defy the New York City cabaret laws. Meets tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the east side of Tompkins Square Park, Ninth Street and Avenue B, where the moves will be taught; at 4 p.m. the group is to move to the Tompkins Square Park Bandshell, where DJ Johnny Dynell will spin. Information: (212) 505-2225.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The performance artist Karen Finley is among the participants. (Photo by Richard Termine); Phil Hartman, the founder of the Howl! festival, with parade gear. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Arthur Blythe is performing at the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival, one of the events in the Howl! festival. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian); Lady Bunny, true to form, will be the host of the Wigstock show, and Lou Reed, who just flew in from a visit to Sri Lanka, will read poetry. (Photographs by The Associated Press); The Federation of East Village Artists presented an art auction at the Angel Orensanz Center for the Arts, which is housed in a synagogue. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. E4) Drawing (Drawing by Istvan Banyai)(pg. E1) Map of Manhattan highlighting Lower East Side and area of festival. (pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (88%); POETRY (88%); WRITERS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PHARMACIES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); POP & ROCK (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%) CULTURE; HOWL! FESTIVAL (NYC) 

COMPANY: DUANE READE DRUG STORE CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (58%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (58%)

PERSON: HARTMAN, PHIL; HARTMAN, DORIS; MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); SRI LANKA (85%) LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; EAST VILLAGE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



528 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Sleep? Who Needs Sleep? There's Shopping to Do

BYLINE:  By NANCY M. BETTER 

 BODY:
ELAINE MARSHALL was in the L. L. Bean store in Freeport, Me., recently, strolling around the luggage department, checking out the camping gear and surveying the women's wear. She paused to be photographed next to an enormous stuffed bear and poured herself a free cup of coffee. Nothing out of the ordinary, except for one thing: It was 12:15 a.m.
 Ms. Marshall, the secretary of state of North Carolina, had arrived on a large tour bus that hit the store at midnight, disgorging dozens of conventioneers in business suits and with name tags around their necks. The group, in town for the National Association of Secretaries of State annual convention, had been to dinner at Bowdoin College, nearby in Brunswick, and to a performance of "Jekyll and Hyde" before reaching the store. 
 "It's been a long night," Ms. Marshall said with a laugh. 
For 20 minutes, Ms. Marshall and her colleagues fanned out around the store. The registers rang up brisk sales, especially of canvas tote bags that can be monogrammed on the spot. Then the public-address system buzzed to announce the departure of the bus, the crowd filed out, and the store was quiet.
So goes a typical Saturday night at L. L. Bean -- the largest tourist attraction in Maine, hauling in three and a half million customers annually, nearly three times the state's population. The store is devoted to the great outdoors, even if many customers rarely heed the call of the wild, instead using their Magalloway Bay fishing vests to attend soccer games, their Appalachian expedition packs to lug books, and their Maine hunting shoes to shovel snow. 
It is also a paradise for traveling insomniacs. Since 1951, when Leon Leonwood Bean, the founder himself, removed the locks from the front doors and threw away the keys, the store has been open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day.
"It's pretty much self-service after midnight," said a tent salesman identified by his name tag as Michael. "We get the camp counselors, after the kids go to sleep. We get some locals who don't like the lines during the day. And we get celebrities, people who don't want to attract attention." 
A recent overnight visit revealed that there is apparently no shortage of people who prefer nothing more than to while away the wee hours testing hiking boots on artificial rocks or fishing for trout in an indoor pond.
10 p.m. Renovated last year, the Hunting and Fishing Store, directly opposite the Flagship Store, resembles a taxidermy museum, with trophy heads dotting the walls. On the first floor, a group of bikers in black leather jackets huddled at the gun counter, gazing at the shiny New Englander rifles ($1,995).
Upstairs, an elderly couple from New Jersey shopped for fishing rods, pausing to peer at the fishing videos running continuously on monitors. 
The Hunting and Fishing Store's newest attraction, open since July, is the interactive archery studio. A rugged guide named Butch demonstrated how to use a bow and arrow, then dimmed the lights. A pair of enormous elk ambled slowly by on a movie screen.
"Get your aim," Butch instructed his customer, a Manhattan doctor. "Now release."
Pow! An arrow nailed the smaller elk in the leg. Butch punched his computer keyboard. This time, the elk were camouflaged by dense trees. Zing! An arrow pierced the larger elk's shoulder, scoring a virtual bull's-eye. 
Midnight. In front of the Flagship Store, a group of Japanese tourists took digital photos of each other with the huge Maine hunting shoe that was erected in celebration of the company's 90th anniversary, in 2002. Illuminated at night, the two-story boot is a Maine icon, as much a symbol of the state as lobsters and lighthouses. 
The boot's origins date to 1912, when the store's founder returned from a hunting trip with cold, wet feet and an idea: he would hire a local cobbler to stitch leather uppers to a pair of simple workman's rubber boots. Although 90 of the first 100 pairs were defective, that didn't faze Bean. He borrowed money, improved his manufacturing techniques and mailed brochures to holders of Maine hunting licenses. 
Business flourished, and by 1921 he opened his first store. According to company lore, customers frequently dropped by after hours; a night bell allowed them to summon a watchman for assistance. Since 1951, when the founder instituted his round-the-clock open-door policy, the store has closed only twice: when John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963 and when L. L. Bean himself died at age 94 in 1967. 
Post-midnight shopping sprees have become something of a summer tradition for Dr. Chris Guion and his family of Birmingham, Ala. Each year, the Guions, who spend a few weeks each August on Wilson Pond in Wayne, Me., take a late-night drive over to L. L. Bean, about an hour away. This year's group included Dr. Guion's son Ben, 14, and his daughter, Kim, 23, along with her boyfriend, a cousin and two family friends.
"Everyone looks forward to going," Ben said. "It's easy to find parking, and there are no long lines." 
The Guion clan roamed through the store for more than three hours, accumulating three large shopping bags. Ben bought a backpack, a pocketknife and a zippered fleece jacket. By 2 a.m. they were heading back to the lake. 
Another regular visitor is Jim Lebson of Portland, Ore., who stops in at L. L. Bean en route to his family's cabin on a lake near Freeport. On this year's trip, Mr. Lebson arrived at the store at around 1:15 a.m. and promptly bought a Maine fishing license from a cashier in the Hunting and Fishing Store.
"It's always an adventure," Mr. Lebson said of his annual visit. "I've even run into friends at 3 in the morning, buying flies on their way to go fishing." 
2 a.m. The second-floor book department in the Flagship Store, with its deep leather armchairs and cozy rag rugs, is an inviting spot. There are sections on everything from hunting and fishing to gardening and cooking, as well as a shelf labeled Maine Authors, which is heavy on children's books by Robert ("Make Way for Ducklings") McCloskey. Unfortunately, the adjacent Dew Drop Inn cafe is never open later than 10 p.m. 
Over in the footwear department, three college students tried on felt clogs. A bearded man from Chicago studied the wall of boots, which includes 32 variations on the original Maine hunting shoe. He also examined the irregularly shaped gray bridge in the middle of the department, which on closer inspection turned out to be an agglomeration of artificial rock surfaces intended for testing boots. 
5 a.m. By this hour, the extra-large bolstered dog bed -- more than five feet wide and covered in soft fleece -- certainly looked appealing. In the home department there were wrought-iron beds sumptuously dressed with thick down comforters and smooth chamois sheets. The smell of balsam sachets filled the air.
During the third shift, as the midnight-to-8-a.m. period is called, workers were busy restocking shelves, vacuuming carpets and rearranging furniture. They scarcely noticed a lone customer, and when they did, they smiled sympathetically. A saleswoman named Valerie roved the second floor, offering assistance.
"I meet a lot of people this time of night who are just passing through and need to stretch their legs," she said. 
7 a.m. Dawn was breaking, and in a corner of the second floor, a couple of kayakers from Boston were getting an early start. En route to their destination on the Allagash River, they had stopped to pick up a compass and to make a map at the National Geographic computer kiosk. For $7.95, customers can produce a detailed topographic map -- in pastel colors -- of any area in the United States.
Green plastic shopping bags in hand, the Boston kayakers headed outside. They gazed at the L. L. Bean Subaru Outback station wagon and the L. L. Bean Old Town canoes displayed near the store's entrance. Then they passed by the huge Maine hunting shoe and disappeared into their kayak-topped S.U.V.

IF YOU GO
L. L. Bean Is Not the Only Game in Town
 FOUNDED as a logging town more than 200 years ago, Freeport, Me., thrived on shipbuilding and manufacturing before the local economy hit the skids in the 1970's. Then the outlets stores came, and Freeport became known as a shopping haven.
Today Freeport is essentially a giant retail mall disguised as a quaint New England village. More than 120 outlets occupy the strip along Route 1 between Exits 17 and 20 of Interstate 95.
Thanks to strict planning guidelines, including hidden parking lots, much of the local charm has been preserved. Starbucks occupies a mustard-yellow saltbox house, Banana Republic is in a brick Federal-style row house and McDonald's in a white clapboard farmhouse with green shutters.

SHOPPING
Freeport's focus is on preppy, all-American fare. Among the national chains with stores here are the Gap, J. Crew, Polo/Ralph Lauren, Brooks Brothers, Maidenform, Oshkosh, Cole-Haan and Timberland. Surprisingly, at the L. L. Bean Outlet Store the best deals recently were custom items with botched monograms. (Anyone for a red fleece jacket bearing the logo "GTG Capital" or a roll-aboard suitcase inscribed "Joyce"?) Outdoor enthusiasts should also visit Patagonia and the North Face.
The Freeport Merchants Association, P.O. Box 452, Freeport, Me. 04032 (www.freeportusa.com; 800-865-1994) can provide a map and a directory of businesses, restaurants and accommodations. On Labor Day weekend, the shopping district holds a sidewalk sale, with bargains galore.

BEYOND THE STORES
A mile east of downtown you will find Mast Landing Sanctuary (65 Upper Mast Landing Road), a 140-acre preserve owned by the Maine Audubon Society (207-781-2330). It offers miles of self-guided trails through apple orchards, woods and meadows and along a millstream. Open from dawn to dusk.
From Memorial Day through mid-October, Atlantic Seal Cruises (Freeport Town Wharf, 207-865-6112) offers daily narrated sightseeing trips into Casco Bay on a 40-foot boat. It also offers fall foliage trips by boat.

WHERE TO STAY
Just two blocks north of L. L. Bean, the Harraseeket Inn (162 Main Street, 800-342-6423) is the grande dame of Freeport lodging, a 19th-century house that has been renovated and expanded to include 84 rooms, many with fireplaces, canopy beds and antique desks. Amenities include full breakfast, room service, indoor heated pool, exercise equipment and conference rooms. Standard double rooms are $195 to $205.
The Hampton Inn and Gatehouse Conference Center (194 Lower Main Street, 207-865-1400) offers comfortable accommodations at the edge of town, with 77 rooms on two levels. Amenities include continental breakfast, heated indoor pool and gym. Standard double rooms are $89 to $179.

WHERE TO EAT
Arrive early, carry cash, and bring a big appetite to the Harraseeket Lunch and Lobster Company (207-865-4888), a bare-bones restaurant on the Harraseeket River, about 10 minutes from downtown Freeport. Order lobster and clams at one window, fried foods at the other, and wait until your name is shouted over a loudspeaker. You eat at picnic tables overlooking the water. Favorites include the lobster roll with French fries ($14.50) and the lobster delight ($16.50), a one-pound lobster with a dozen steamers and an ear of corn. No alcohol is served, but you may bring your own. Open daily 11 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. from May 1 through Labor Day, open until 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 15.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALWAYS OPEN -- Even at 2 a.m., shoppers head into L. L. Bean in Freeport, Me. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); AFTER MIDNIGHT -- Dr. Chris Guion of Birmingham, Ala., top, and his family make a run to L. L. Bean every year while on vacation. So does Jim Lebson, right, of Portland, Ore. Kathy Durr, above, works the late shift. (Photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPING (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HIKING (78%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); CELEBRITIES (69%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (69%); POPULATION SIZE (55%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); SOCCER (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: BEAN, L L, CO 

PERSON: BETTER, NANCY M 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) MAINE, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%) FREEPORT (ME); MAINE

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



529 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Fall in New Jobless Claims Hints at a Slow Recovery 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Fewer Americans lined up to claim unemployment benefits last week, with the latest figures suggesting that the nation's economic recovery is gathering steam, but not enough to generate strong job growth. 
 Claims for first-time jobless benefits fell to 386,000 in the week that ended on Aug. 16, down 17,000 from an upwardly revised 403,000 in the previous week, the Labor Department said yesterday. Wall Street economists were expecting around 395,000 new jobless claims. 
 Separately, a forecasting gauge rose in July for the fourth consecutive month, offering the best economic outlook in two years.
The Conference Board's index of leading indicators, which combines recent economic data into a forward-looking indicator, rose 0.4 percent in July, to 112.5, after a 0.3 percent increase in June. 
"Things look like they're going to get better, but the coincident indicators are telling you, 'Don't rush too quick,' " said Steven Ricchiuto, chief United States economist at ABN Amro. 
Because the penchant of Americans for buying homes and cars was barely dented during the latest recession, the pent-up demand that usually powers a full-throttle recovery is starkly absent. That means robust growth is on the way, but it may be slow in coming. 
Analysts were encouraged by the reduction in new claims, now at the lowest level since early February. But it was anyone's guess whether the recent decline would translate into actual employment growth for August. The economy has lost jobs for six consecutive months, with a net 2.5 million positions lost since the start of 2001. The unemployment rate fell to 6.2 percent in July, but that was only because many people had given up looking for work and thus fell out of the official survey. 
The four-week average of jobless claims, which smooths out weekly fluctuations in the volatile claims data, was below 400,000 for the third consecutive week, at 394,250, pointing to a stabilizing job market. 
The government report said last week's blackout had a minimal effect on the data. A Labor Department spokesman said that "only one state inside the blackout region had an estimated 2,000 to 3,000 fewer claims because of filing difficulties." 
But some economists were skeptical. "We find that difficult to believe as nearly one-quarter of the country was unable to file for unemployment insurance for one-fifth of the workweek," Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers, said in a research note. 
The blackout -- the biggest in North American history -- struck the Northeast and Midwest as well as part of eastern Canada. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POWER FAILURES (66%); HISTORY (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); CONFERENCE BOARD 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



530 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Rise as 3 Reports Show Strengthening Economy

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Three upbeat economic reports, ranging from jobless claims to regional manufacturing, cheered Wall Street yesterday, prompting investors to pick up shares on strengthening expectations of a solid recovery. The Nasdaq composite index reached another 16-month high.
 "Jobless claims were benign, so people were relieved by that," said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed Financial. "No one wants to see a bad claims or bad employment number. We didn't get one, so that allowed people to focus on other good news." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 26.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 9,423.68. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 17.01 points, or 1 percent, to 1,777.55. The last time the technology-focused index closed higher was April 19, 2002, when it finished at 1,796.83.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.97 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,003.27.
The Labor Department reported that 386,000 newly laid-off workers filed claims for jobless benefits last week, down 17,000 from the previous week. The number is the lowest level of new jobless claims in six months.
The Conference Board, meanwhile, said its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.4 percent in July to 112.5, after a revised 0.3 percent increase in June. It was the fourth consecutive month of gains; the reading met analysts' expectations.
And the Philadelphia Federal Reserve reported that its business index jumped to 22.1 this month, compared with 8.3 in July. Analysts were expecting a much more modest reading of 10.0.
"The Philly Fed index reading was excellent because it showed new orders and shipments were up," said Neil Massa, equity trader at John Hancock Funds. "For investors looking for a reason that the economy is turning around, that would be a big one."
Stocks have climbed in recent weeks as investors remain upbeat about a speedy recovery. But some analysts caution that the market might be due for a retreat because the economic outlook remains somewhat murky.
"I've been surprised that no matter what -- whether it's the blackout, bombings overseas or a computer virus -- nothing can keep this market down," Mr. Massa said. The sell-off on Wednesday, he said, "seemed to be a bit of a rest; nothing indicated a change of direction."
Monsanto climbed $1.43, to $24.12, after the company, whose businesses including developing genetically engineered crops, agreed to settle a lawsuit contending it dumped polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, in Alabama. Merrill Lynch upgraded the company's stock rating to buy from neutral.
Goodyear Tire and Rubber advanced 26 cents, to $6.56, after it reached a tentative agreement on a three-year contract with the United Steelworkers of America, reducing the threat of a strike.
Decliners included Krispy Kreme, the doughnut maker, which fell $1.42, to $47.50, even though it reported second-quarter profit that came in higher than analysts' estimates.
Pfizer, the drug maker, dropped 95 cents, to $29.79, after Smith Barney cut the stock rating to in line from outperform.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Yields Rise
By Reuters
Treasury yields shot to nine-month highs yesterday after the shock of a huge surge in regional manufacturing prompted investors to bring forward their expectations for a possible interest rate rise.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 14/32, to a price of 98 4/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, gained to 4.49 percent from 4.43 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 2/32, to 101 10/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.29 percent from 5.28 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Graph tracks the average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly, since May 2003. Revenue bonds: 5.41%General obligation bonds: 5.10% (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); NEW ORDERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (60%); TIRES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (50%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); BOMBINGS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WADDELL & REED INC (57%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (51%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (60%); GT (NASDAQ) (60%); GT (BRU) (60%); WDR (NYSE) (57%); MON (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (60%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (60%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (60%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (60%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



531 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; 
Euro's Steep Drop Accelerates Against the Dollar and the Yen

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The euro tumbled against the dollar and the yen yesterday amid evidence that the economies in the United States and Japan are accelerating even as the 12-nation euro region struggles to recover from recession.
 The decline extended the currency's slide this quarter to 4.8 percent against the dollar and 6.5 percent against the yen. A surge in the euro over the last year had hurt demand for European exports, contributing to the slowdown in growth. 
 "People think they can get higher returns in the U.S. than in Europe, which is why they are starting to shift capital from one region to the other," said Alejandro Urbina, a currency strategist in Chicago at Banc One Capital Markets. "There's more positive news coming out of Japan," increasing demand for yen, he said.
In New York, the euro settled at $1.0930, down from $1.1122 on Wednesday. It fell as low as 128.85 yen, more than 2 yen below yesterday's close.
Since rising above $1.19 in late May, the euro has declined as the region's economy has headed toward recession. First-time jobless claims in the United States fell to the lowest level since February, more evidence that growth is accelerating, as signs of a revival in Japan have pushed the Nikkei 225-stock index to close above 10,000 every day this week.
The euro may drop to as low as $1 within a month, Mr. Urbina said. UBS, the largest trader in the foreign exchange market, according to Euro-money magazine, forecast yesterday that the euro would weaken to $1.09 in a month, compared with its previous prediction of $1.16. Banc of America Securities reduced its year-end forecast to $1.09 from $1.21.
"The dollar is seen as the growth currency," said Neil Parker, a currency analyst in London at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group. "We've seen a catastrophic drop in euro-yen because Japanese investors are disappointed with their European investments."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since March 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



532 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: A Suitable Venue for City Opera 

 BODY:
The redevelopment of the World Trade Center site should, ideally, include a strong cultural presence. And from the first, the New York City Opera, dissatisfied with its present location in Lincoln Center, has been among the cultural institutions most eager to migrate downtown. 
 It is not at all certain that City Opera will ultimately be invited to make the move. It will take its chances along with other institutions that have submitted or will be submitting proposals to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. In our view, however, City Opera would make a splendid contribution to a revitalized downtown. 
 Unfortunately, an air of contentiousness already surrounds the move. Some government officials, as well as many local residents who responded to a recent community board survey, seem to feel that City Opera is somehow too specialized and too highbrow to be Lower Manhattan's cultural centerpiece. 
It seems strangely inappropriate for the discussion over the cultural outlines of Lower Manhattan to turn on the question of elitism. This city's cultural richness depends on the entire cross-section of the arts. To foster an artificial populism downtown -- to defer in advance to programming with the broadest public appeal -- is to underestimate the public and underestimate the capacity for audience-building that a move like this might engender for any institution, including City Opera itself.
The significance of 9/11 cannot be expressed in only one art form, high or low, and the same is true for the cultural potential of Lower Manhattan. The way to create the greatest public and artistic vibrancy downtown is to develop a plan that attracts as many different kinds of audiences as possible.
City Opera has other things going for it besides artistic merit. It appears to have the money to build its own space and sustain itself, one of the corporation's basic stipulations. To prosper, it will need to be located near the heart of the trade center site, close to the transportation hub, not in Battery Park City. But the risks it faces are inherently no greater than the ones other institutions would face in moving downtown. And it is obviously willing to take them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (73%) EDITORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



533 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Trader Said to Have Started to Deceive Early 

BYLINE:  By LANDON THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
A young energy trader who prosecutors say embezzled $43 million from Merrill Lynch has a history of deception dating back to high school, according to former classmates.
 Daniel L. Gordon was expelled in 1993 from the Williams School in New London, Conn., after school officials discovered that he had hacked into the school's computer system, falsified his transcript and sent out fraudulent applications to a number of Ivy League colleges, including Yale and Columbia, these classmates and a former teacher said. 
 Mr. Gordon, described as an excellent student, was a junior at the time and overly eager to go to college. Even after his abrupt departure from the Williams School, he entered Boston University that year on an early admission, and graduated three years later summa cum laude. He earned a master's degree in international economics from Yale in 1997. 
A spokeswoman for the Williams School, a private day school, confirmed that Mr. Gordon attended from 1988 to 1993 and left after his junior year without a diploma.
The disclosures cast light on perhaps the most compelling element of Mr. Gordon's story, his extraordinary precociousness, and how age discrepancies that have since become a central issue to prosecutors and regulators may have originated.
Mr. Gordon is now 27. But at the age of 23, when most bankers are fetching coffee for their superiors, Mr. Gordon was running one of Wall Street's most successful trading desks at Merrill. Prosecutors say he was also concocting a sophisticated money laundering scheme, replete with offshore accounts, dummy corporations and mysterious Indian front men.
As described in a letter by Jane A. Levine, an assistant attorney in the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, Mr. Gordon set up a shell company and persuaded Merrill to wire a $43 million insurance payment to that company as part of a sophisticated energy trade. Allegheny Energy bought Mr. Gordon's energy trading unit from Merrill in 2001. Prosecutors say Mr. Gordon, who moved to Allegheny after the transaction, funneled $2.5 million to a home oil supply company that he owned. No charges have been brought against Mr. Gordon, whose lawyer declined to comment on the matter.
Merrill and Allegheny are embroiled in bitter lawsuits that center on the transaction and misrepresentations about Mr. Gordon's age. Allegheny claims that it was defrauded when it bought Merrill's energy trading division, and hired Mr. Gordon, because the unit's profits were artificially inflated by Enron trades.
Bill Halldin, a Merrill spokesman, said the firm first sued Allegheny for failing to make a required $115 million payment. "Enron's financial statements have nothing to do with the transaction," he said. "If the allegations against Mr. Gordon are true, then Merrill was victimized by this individual." The firm says it is working with the authorities.
In its response, Allegheny also asserts that Merrill misled the company about Mr. Gordon's age. He was 25 at the time of the transaction.
Mr. Gordon went on to work at Allegheny for one and a half years before he was fired in September 2002 for conflicts of interest, the company says. Officials close to Allegheny also say that Mr. Gordon lied about his education and age in a sworn deposition to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the main energy regulator.
Mr. Gordon appears to have repeatedly portrayed himself as older than he was, chiefly because of his unusual shortcut to college. By skipping his senior year of high school, he entered college at 17, not 18. 
Much about the life of Mr. Gordon remains unknown -- most specifically, his current whereabouts. 
Alan Levine, his lawyer, who declined to comment on Mr. Gordon's history at the Williams School or any aspect of the current investigation, said his client was now in private business.
Since the letter last November from Ms. Levine, who was seeking help from Canadian authorities, there have been no major legal developments. 
While Wall Street scratches its collective head as to how Mr. Gordon could have gotten away with it all, some former classmates and teachers from the Williams School said they were not all that surprised.
Though they attested that he had stellar grades and one teacher was charmed by his sharp intelligence, they said that Mr. Gordon seemed to be striving for something more. One classmate described how he managed to rig the school soda machines to give him free cans of Coke.
According to former classmates and a teacher, Mr. Gordon broke into the school's computer system and made changes to his transcript, as part of his application to some Ivy League schools.
These people said that Mr. Gordon had always made it clear that he was bored with the school's pace, which he considered too slow. His former history teacher, Robert E. Merritt, now retired, recalled that Mr. Gordon frequently discussed the deal of the day on Wall Street.
Despite the allegations, Mr. Merritt said that he would be willing to testify as a character witness for his former student. 
He also remembered what a shock it was when Mr. Gordon was asked to leave the school. "I was disappointed at the time," Mr. Merritt said, "and so was he." 
"The irony was that he didn't need to doctor anything. I always liked him -- he had a sparkle in his eye and I gave him legitimate straight A's."
Mr. Gordon comes from a prominent family in Norwich, Conn. His father, Glenn Gordon, is a lawyer involved in local politics and is the chief executive of Daticon, a data storage company. Calls to his father's house were not returned.
After finishing Yale, Daniel Gordon headed to Wall Street. In 1997, he joined Constellation Energy, an energy supply company in which Goldman Sachs had an equity stake. He moved on to Merrill the next year. 
Mr. Gordon is described by former Merrill bankers as having been more of a financial craftsman than a trader. His brief experience as an energy trader, as well as his ability to manufacture complicated financial transactions, soon thrust him into the limelight. Energy trading markets were booming, and Merrill's global energy markets group had become one of the major trading operations on Wall Street. As one of Enron's main investment banks, Merrill also took part in a number of profitable trades with Enron in 1999 and 2000, before the company went bankrupt.
In August 2000, prosecutors say that Mr. Gordon embezzled $43 million from Merrill.
The scheme was astonishing for both its sophistication and brazenness. As head of the group, Mr. Gordon entered into a long-term contract to buy power from Williams Energy, with Merrill agreeing to pay Williams Energy $42 million to $50 million a year in return for a set amount of electricity per hour. The idea was that Merrill's traders would resell the power for a profit.
As is the practice with such trades, Mr. Gordon sought to buy some insurance to hedge the firm's exposure should electricity become unavailable. He persuaded his superiors at Merrill to write a $43 million check to an offshore company called Falcon Energy holdings. Prosecutors now say that Falcon was a shell company controlled by Mr. Gordon and used to launder the funds. 
Former Merrill executives say what was most unusual about the contract was not so much that it was a fictitious company -- Mr. Gordon told Merrill officials that it was an affiliate of Elf Aquitaine, the French energy company -- but that Merrill wired the entire $43 million instead of making installment payments, as is usually the practice.
But, they say, his confident manner and the rich profits being generated by his group gave him credibility within the firm.
Prosecutors now say there was never an insurance contract and the money ended up in a bank account in Zurich belonging to Mr. Gordon. They also claim that Mr. Gordon then wired $30 million of the sum back to New York and bought a majority stake in Daticon, where his father works.
The Falcon trade notwithstanding, the Williams Energy trade was a profitable one for Merrill, and Mr. Gordon's star ascended even higher. 
His personal fortunes were also on the rise. Mr. Gordon married Laura Lesnik, who was three years ahead of Mr. Gordon at the Williams School. 
In 2001, Merrill sold the division to Allegheny; a precondition of the sale was that Mr. Gordon, as the unit's mastermind, would be hired by Allegheny.
Soon after he joined Allegheny, the Enron crisis erupted, and the soaring energy markets that that made Mr. Gordon's career collapsed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel L. Gordon at Daticon's offices last year. He invested $30 million in Daticon, which is based in Norwich, Conn. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C1); Daticon's headquarters in Norwich, Conn. Daniel L. Gordon's father, Glenn Gordon, is the chief executive of the data storage company. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); FUTURES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); LAWYERS (68%); ETHICS (66%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ETHICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC; WILLIAMS SCHOOL (NEW LONDON, CONN); YALE UNIVERSITY; BOSTON UNIVERSITY; DATICON INC 

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: THOMAS, LANDON JR; GORDON, DANIEL L; GORDON, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



534 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Details Ground Rules For Baby Bells and Rivals 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission today detailed the rules the Baby Bells and their rivals must follow in using existing and future telecommunications networks.
 The rules elaborate on a contentious F.C.C. decision six months ago that local telephone companies generally must share older equipment for voice transmission at wholesale rates but not newer technology dedicated to high-speed data. 
 Industry analysts predicted that the long-awaited 576-page order would bolster the telecommunications industry by easing some uncertainty among investors, who have largely waited on the sidelines to see the fine print of the F.C.C. order.
"Investors have been waiting for it," said Scott C. Cleland, the chief executive of the Precursor Group, adding that a lot of deals and investments have been put off. 
The order tries to balance two competing goals of the 1996 telecommunications act: promoting competition by allowing the Baby Bells' rivals to gain access to local telephone companies' networks while creating incentives for the Bells to invest in new equipment that will encourage economic development.
For example, the F.C.C. gave some incentive for Baby Bells to invest in fiber optics over copper. The Bells are not required to lease their lines at wholesale rates when the line to the consumer's home is made completely of fiber optics.
The final order, a result of a Congressionally mandated review, has pleased almost no one and will certainly lead to a wave of litigation. "Every word will be challenged," said Dana Frix, a telecommunications lawyer with Chadbourne & Parke who often represents the rivals to the Baby Bells. "My children will go to college on this stuff. This is a lawyer's dream."
The four regional telephone companies -- Verizon Communications, SBC Communications Inc., Qwest Communications and the BellSouth Corporation -- want to shake the obligation of sharing their older voice infrastructure as mandated under the 1996 act. Their competitors, meanwhile, are not pleased to be largely shut out of the Bells' broadband services.
Reflecting the discontent, four of the five commissioners dissented from some parts of the document but approved others. Where one commissioner saw the fostering of competition, another saw over-regulation. Only Kevin J. Martin, a Republican who brokered a deal with the commission's two Democrats to form the majority, supported the results in their entirety.
The contentious 3-to-2 vote in February pushed a lot of regulatory authority on the voice market to the states, much to the dismay of Michael K. Powell, chairman of the commission, who was in the minority. The F.C.C. order lays out guidelines for the states to determine whether there is sufficient competition in the voice market to loosen regulations. The F.C.C. requires the states to determine within nine months whether the Bells' rivals continue to face high burdens in establishing a foothold in local markets.
One critical guideline considers who controls the switches -- the critical gateways between the main telecommunications backbones and individual telephones. 
Under the F.C.C. guidelines, the Bell companies are no longer obligated to offer wholesale rates to competitors when there are at least three competitors serving the consumer market with their own switches, or there are two wholesale companies providing these services to other competitors using their own switches. Officials from the F.C.C. said these thresholds were determined using economic data submitted by various companies.
Mr. Powell said the guidelines leave too much discretion to the states, which, he said, have great leeway in defining markets. "Every antitrust lawyer knows that the outcome of any case is generally won or lost over how the market is defined," he said in a statement, adding that the discretion will cause "gerrymandering" as states strive to maintain the regulation framework to keep prices artificially low.
The Bell rivals, which include the AT & T Corporation, MCI and a host of smaller companies, controlled only about 4 percent of the nation's local telephone lines in 1999, according to the F.C.C. That grew to 11 percent by June 2002, but that nationwide figure disguises wide disparities. New York leads the trend with more than 25 percent of its local lines operated by competitors, while states like New Mexico and North Dakota have almost none.
Nonetheless, customers in many states are already starting to see the benefits of the forced competition. For example, companies are offering unlimited local and long-distance phone calls for $50 or so a month in some markets. So with the states in the regulatory seat, consumers will see lower phone bills in the interim -- even if that is partly brought on by mandatory competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FIBER OPTICS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BROADBAND (73%); LITIGATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); LAWYERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (54%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (65%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC; SBC COMMUNICATIONS; QWEST COMMUNICATIONS CORP; BELLSOUTH CORP; AT&T CORP; MCI CORP 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); CTL (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (65%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (65%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (58%) LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



535 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 591 words

PERSON: Charles Gyude Bryant 

HEADLINE: Man in the News; 
A Man Without Enemies -- Charles Gyude Bryant

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Charles Gyude Bryant, the next leader of Liberia, appears never to have sought the job.
 A successful businessman, a pillar of the Episcopal Church and, until today, a minor political figure in Liberia, Mr. Bryant emerged as a compromise figure during peace talks in the Accra, Ghana. 
 "I think we needed a neutralist," Mr. Bryant, 54, said today in a telephone interview. "The warring parties are too inflamed. There is too much anger among too many people. We need a cooling-off period. 
"I see myself as neutral. I side with no group. I'll strive to bring the opposing factions together. We need to heal our country, to end the retribution and to see that the basic rights of the people are ensured."
Neutrality, if maintained, may prove to be a grace in a starving nation of three million, where war has taken perhaps a quarter of a million lives in the past generation. 
"We have an obligation to the Liberian people to give him all the support we can, and we will," said Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, 64, a former international banker and senior United Nations official. She had led the early balloting among the candidates submitted by the government's negotiators to the rebel parties for their approval.
Many in Liberian political circles and among diplomats here had expected Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf to win, and speculation immediately rose that allies of the former president, Charles G. Taylor, saw her as the enemy and had plotted to block her.
She is a known commodity, having run unsuccessfully against Mr. Taylor in 1997. Mr. Bryant, by contrast, is so little known that his biography at the United States Embassy here consisted of one sentence: chairman of the Liberian Action Party, a minor political group.
But Mr. Bryant also has few known enemies, and that alone makes him a highly unusual man in Liberia.
Charles Gyude Bryant, whom most people here call Gyude (YOU-deh), was born on Jan. 17, 1949, in Monrovia. His family has roots in Maryland County, Liberia, one of the many places here with names that hark back to the nation's founding by freed American slaves in 1847.
Unlike many of Liberia's elite, he is not descended from American ancestors, but from the indigenous Grebo ethnic group.
He was awarded an undergraduate degree in economics at Cuttington University College in Monrovia in 1972, and two years later married his wife, Rosielee Williams, who works for United Airlines in the United States. They have three children. He runs a heavy-equipment company that has supplied much of the machinery that lies in ruins at Liberia's war-shattered port.
A first cousin, Anthony W. Deline II, chairman of the Liberian Mining Corporation, said, "He never wanted to be president, but he always wanted to be a leader."
The Very Rev. Jonathan B. B. Hart, the dean of Trinity Cathedral, where Mr. Bryant is chairman of the Episcopal Church of Liberia, said: "I never thought him to have political ambitions -- I saw him more as a kingmaker -- so I was surprised when I heard he was one of those being considered."
"He has the ability of decision-making" by consent, not fiat, Dean Hart said. "In the church we want decisions coming out of discussions, not unilateral decisions."
Jeddi Armah, news director of Radio Veritas, a Roman Catholic station here that is widely seen as the nation's sole reliable source of news, said Mr. Bryant was one of the few political figures in Liberia, however minor, with a clean record and a blank slate.
"Given that he's not tainted by the past," Mr. Armah said, "I'd like to give him the benefit of the doubt."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); STRIKES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SLAVERY (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); ETHNICITY (50%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (58%) WEINER, TIM; BRYANT, CHARLES GYUDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) LIBERIA (97%); GHANA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) LIBERIA

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



536 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: SECURITY COUNCIL; 
U.S. Presses U.N. Members To Bear More of Iraq Burden

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Using the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad as a rallying cry, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell sought today to build support for a new Security Council resolution that would persuade other major nations to contribute more troops and aid to secure and rebuild Iraq under the aegis of the American-led occupation.
 His appeal was not rejected out of hand by any Council members, but it met with a wary response from Germany and Russia and an icy rebuke from France. 
 Emerging from a meeting with Secretary General Kofi Annan this morning, Mr. Powell told reporters that "We're looking at, of course, reaffirming our determination to succeed in Iraq. We're looking forward to language that might call on member states to do more." 
Shortly afterward, France's deputy ambassador, Michel Duclos, told a Security Council meeting that the economic and political reconstruction of Iraq will not succeed if Washington insists on maintaining sole control of the process. "Sharing the burden and responsibility in a world of equal and sovereign nations also means sharing information and authority," Mr. Duclos said.
While condemning the terrorist attack, he asked a rhetorical question: "Would we be in this state if there had been set up at the outset a genuine international partnership?" He also called for the return of United Nations weapons inspectors, noting that the failure of allied forces to find unconventional weapons was especially troubling, since it might mean that they were available to terrorists.
The French reception was a reminder of the risks that Mr. Powell has assumed in trying, in the wake of the bombing, to sell the Security Council and potential troop contributors like Pakistan, Turkey and India, on a position that previously had been unacceptable to most of them. The demands of the potential donors for a degree of military autonomy runs afoul of the Pentagon's insistence on unified command and control, particularly in an environment as chaotic as central Iraq.
Mr. Annan raised the possibility of a multinational force under the mandate of the United Nations, along the lines of what was done in Afghanistan. While reiterating the necessity of a central command structure, the British envoy, Sir Emyr Jones Parry, said late in the day, "Whether or not there is some other way of bringing a multinational presence into the theater needs to be addressed."
It remained possible that the destruction of the headquarters would do nothing to resolve the old stalemate. But comments like Sir Emyr's made it clear that bargaining might soften the positions of some countries. 
In their morning meeting, Mr. Annan stressed to Mr. Powell the need for agreement among the Security Council's permanent members before any proposal was formally issued. Later, in remarks to reporters, Mr. Annan distanced himself from Mr. Powell by suggesting that the answer to Iraq's security needs might be an international force mandated by the United Nations.
But, as he stood by Mr. Powell, Mr. Annan also made it clear he did not see any role for a more traditional United Nations peacekeeping force. And Mr. Powell parried questions about a multinational force by saying that Iraq already has one, pointing out that troops from 30 nations are present in Iraq.
Several envoys, in remarks to the Security Council or in conversations with reporters in the corridors outside, suggested possible areas in which the United States might make some concessions. One was to set out a timetable for withdrawal or for the establishment of a completely independent, elected Iraqi government.
Sergey Lavrov, the Russian ambassador, spoke for many when he said "all of us wish a stronger and more active role of the United Nations." And he stressed the importance of creating "a political process and a clear timetable for restoration of sovereignty of Iraq."
But Scott McClellan, President Bush's press secretary, swiftly rejected an expanded United Nations role in the political development of Iraq. "This is an effort that is led by the Coalition Provisional Authority and that's where it stands," he told The Associated Press in an interview on Air Force One as he accompanied President Bush to Oregon.
The Council meeting today was called long before the bombing, to hear the United States and Britain report on the situation in Iraq.
Mr. Duclos, the French envoy, also suggested that the financial situation in Iraq was opaque. "We agree to participate in the donors' conference in October," he said, "only if the international community is totally informed about the use made by the coalition of Iraq's financial and oil revenues."
But security issues loomed larger than financial or political ones. A former American ambassador to the United Nations, Richard C. Holbrooke, said in a telephone interview yesterday that one solution might be to have Norwegian soldiers form the core of a international force. 
"I think Kofi Annan's suggestion of a multinational force which is separate from but closely related to the overall American command is the way to square this impossible circle and allow other countries to participate while preserving America's central role," he said. He added that Norway was ideal for such a role, as it is both a trusted NATO ally and one of the earliest and strongest supporters of the United Nations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marion van Embricqs, left, and Margaret Heymann, United Nations Development Program staff members, at a memorial meeting in New York yesterday for the victims of the bombing in Baghdad on Tuesday. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



537 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
2 Princeton Parking Lots to Become 77 Apartments

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
A plan to redevelop two borough-owned parking lots in downtown Princeton, N.J., into apartments, stores and a parking garage is moving forward despite fierce opposition from residents who contend the projects would start changing a picturesque university town into just another city.
 The plan, approved by the borough council in June 2002, calls for converting the two surface lots, totaling 2.3 acres, into 77 one- and two-bedroom rental apartments on the upper levels of two five-story buildings that will also have 13,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space, including a grocery store. Twelve rentals will be for families with low or moderate incomes. 
 There will also be a 15,000-square-foot public plaza and a five-and-a-half-level, 502-car modular factory-built garage, which the borough will own and manage, on sites on either side of Spring Street, between Witherspoon and Tulane Streets in the 1.7-square-mile community. The $27 million two-phase project is to be built with public and private money by the borough and a private developer. 
As the largest downtown project in two decades, it has stirred the emotions and ire of the Concerned Citizens of Princeton, a group of several hundred residents and a handful of downtown merchants, whose unsuccessful lawsuit is on appeal at the appellate division of the state's Superior Court.
Michael J. Herbert, the borough's lawyer, said the lawsuit was not expected to interfere with the redevelopment. R. William Potter, the lawyer for the citizen's group, said the borough was reckless to proceed in the face of litigation.
Site work began in June for the project on the first parcel -- a 24-apartment building, the garage and a plaza on the north side of Spring Street -- and is expected to be completed in April. The site is next to anew public library, also now under construction.
Monthly rents for market-rate apartments in this phase are expected to be $1,800 to $2,600, excluding utilities, said Robert Powell, a principal of Nassau HKT Urban Renewal Associates of Princeton, the borough's redevelopment partner. The other parcel will hold an L-shaped building with 53 rental units; work there is to start in May.
The borough has owned the lots, with 249 parking spaces, since the late 1960's. The lot on the north side of Spring Street once housed a gasworks plant; the other held shops and houses. There have been previous plans to develop the parcels, but none proceeded. About three years ago, the latest plan evolved as a way to satisfy the parking needs of a new library to be built on the same downtown site that held the previous library. The borough agreed to provide it with 85 additional parking spaces. 
Marvin Reed, the mayor, said it was important to keep the library downtown because it was a popular destination. There had been concern that it would move from the borough to the surrounding Princeton Township. To move the current project forward, the borough council in 2002 declared the two sites an area in need of redevelopment under the state's redevelopment law.
Proponents insist that the project will help the parking situation, while putting the parcels to a higher use and cleaning the former gasworks site of contaminants. They also say that developing the parcels under the redevelopment law allows the borough not only to share the risks and expense with a private developer but also to maintain control and keep parking fees reasonable. 
Including fees from parking and from the developer -- which is leasing the sites and making a payment in lieu of taxes -- the garage is expected to pay for itself. Robert Bruschi, the borough administrator, said that for the first eight years the project would produce an average of $290,000 more a year in revenue than the $526,000 the lots now generate, and even more thereafter.
Opponents say the project would produce few new spaces and would not solve the parking problem. They also contend that the disruption caused by the construction might threaten some existing businesses.
Mr. Potter said that, among other issues, the Concerned Citizens lawsuit challenged the use of the redevelopment law, traditionally thought of as intended for blighted sites, for lots that already produced substantial revenue. James Firestone, the group's president, said the project as planned would begin to turn the town into a city. 
Mr. Herbert, the borough's lawyer, noted that every attempt to halt the project had failed. 
Minno & Wasko of Lambertville, N.J., is the architect for the residential buildings; HNTB in Washington designed the garage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a Princeton redevelopment project, with a library at left. (Photo by Nassau HKT Urban Renewal Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); APPEALS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); LIBRARIES (66%) Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Suits and Litigation; Parking Garages and Lots

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Princeton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



538 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Most Big U.S. Airlines Ease Policy on Nonrefundable Tickets 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Travelers often say that the big airlines are as responsive to their complaints as a block of concrete. But this week, some airlines are rolling back to a degree a stringent use-it-or-lose-it policy on nonrefundable tickets that they put in place last fall to nudge business travelers toward buying higher-priced refundable tickets.
 On Tuesday, American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, said it would allow a passenger to apply the full value of a nonrefundable ticket to a future ticket if the passenger called in to cancel a flight before the plane's departure. The passenger will have one year from the date the original ticket was issued to apply the value of the ticket to the new flight. The passenger will also have to pay a change fee that usually amounts to $100 for domestic flights and up to $200 for international flights. 
 Continental Airlines followed American's lead on Wednesday. Delta Air Lines said yesterday morning that it was also adopting the policy. Northwest Airlines went one step further and said yesterday that travelers could still keep the value of their original ticket for a year from the departure date even if they did not call in advance to cancel a flight.
The new policy is more generous than one that the airlines had put in place in the fall of 2002. Under those rules, passengers canceling a flight had to book a new flight by the departure date of their original flight or they lost the value of the ticket.
Except for Northwest, the policy being adopted this week is not nearly as consumer-friendly as one that was in place before the fall of 2002. Under the old rule, passengers could retain the value of their nonrefundable ticket for a year even if they did not call in to cancel a flight.
When the airlines went from that lenient policy to the hard-edged one, they were flooded with complaints, especially from business travelers.
Tim Wagner, a spokesman for American Airlines, a unit of the AMR Corporation, said the company received complaints "frequently." He said passengers canceling flights often did not know when they would travel next and chafed at the fact that they were required to book another flight before the original departure date.
As of mid-afternoon yesterday, two major airlines had not followed American, Continental, Northwest and Delta. The holdouts were US Airways, the carrier that first announced the use-it-or-lose-it policy, and its code-sharing partner, United Airlines, a unit of UAL, which said it had no plans to match the new refund policies. In August 2002, the same month it filed for bankruptcy protection, US Airways said it was imposing the stringent policy on tickets for travel starting in the fall. The other major hub-and-spoke airlines quickly matched its move.
During the economic slump, business travelers have been turning away from buying expensive, last-minute tickets and gravitating toward nonrefundable tickets with greater restrictions and change fees. The imposition of the tougher policies last fall was intended to discourage business travelers from buying the cheaper tickets, though there are no signs that has worked.
Airlines have been sharply cutting back on passenger service since the recent economic slump and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. They have tried eliminating hot meals on domestic flights, charging travelers to fly standby and charging for overweight or oversized baggage that would have been loaded on the plane free a couple of years ago. The new standby fees were watered down or eliminated when passengers and consumer advocates railed against the airlines.
The constant changing of consumer policies has become one of the greatest indicators of the increasing desperation of the airlines as they struggle to make a profit during the industry's worst financial downturn.
"We're rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic," said Joe Brancatelli, an Internet travel columnist and advocate for business travelers. "This is what the airlines always do."
Mr. Brancatelli said the confusion of the airlines over how to treat nonrefundable tickets pointed to a larger problem with the fare structure. Airlines should treat tickets and seats as if they are commodities that passengers own once they are bought, he said. This means that travelers would be able to do anything they want with the tickets once they are bought, including reselling them or giving them away. It also means passengers would not get to reapply the value of their tickets to a future flight if they cancel their original flight.
Theaters and sports stadiums operate on that model, he said, so why not airlines? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); AMR CORP (81%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



539 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Prized Metal Is in Slump But Nickel Is Surging 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Sagging demand in North America and Europe has led to fierce price-cutting of stainless steel, a metal prized for its resistance to corrosion, its bright appearance and its easily cleaned surfaces.
 "The market in North America is about as weak as we've seen it in 25 years," said Joseph Gibbons, chief executive of Great Plains Stainless Inc. of Tulsa, Okla., which trades stainless steels used in breweries, slaughterhouses and other industrial plants. Investment in equipment has fallen in the last three years, lowering demand for raw materials. According to American Metal Market, a trade publication, the price of one widely used type of stainless steel bar has sunk 16 percent in the last year. The prices of cold-rolled sheet, used for appliances, have fallen 3 percent to 4 percent. 
 Yet as producers of stainless steel battle for sales, the price of nickel, one of its main ingredients, is surging. The London Metal Exchange's three-month nickel contract traded around $9,575 a metric ton today, up 70 percent since early January 2002 and 33 percent so far this year. Prices of stainless steel scrap, an alternative raw material source, have also climbed.
But with stainless steel making up about three-quarters of nickel consumption, the question is how long prices of the two materials can keep moving in opposite directions.
Echoing many other analysts, Daniel A. Roling of Merrill Lynch in New York, said he expected the nickel price to remain strong for at least the next three years.
The nickel market's most recent lift has come from a continuing strike at the Sudbury, Ontario, operations of Inco Ltd., the Western world's biggest nickel producer. The strike, which began June 1 amid a dispute over pensions and health care benefits, has idled about 9 percent of Western production capacity. Inco's global operations account for 19 percent of the world's nickel supplies and 26 percent of supplies for the Western world.
But the surge in nickel prices also reflects fears of a looming and long-lasting supply squeeze. The shortage stems in part from three projects in western Australia that came onstream in the late 1990's using a new extraction process known as high-pressure acid leaching. The technology has turned out to be a disappointment, with both production and costs missing their targets.
Robert Way, principal base metals analyst at the Sydney office of AME Mineral Economics, an independent research concern, said that the prospect of rising production from these projects had discouraged other nickel producers from moving ahead with new mines. "A deficit has opened up and it's going to stay that way," Mr. Way said in a recent phone interview. Two big Inco projects, one at Voisey's Bay in Labrador and another at Goro in the French territory of New Caledonia, are not scheduled tostart production before 2006.
Inco, which is based in Toronto, suspended construction work at Goro last December after the projected cost of the project jumped as much as 40 percent, to $2.1 billion. The company said last week that it had identified savings of $225 million, but that further cost cuts and financial assistance from the French government were still needed for the mine to go ahead. The Voisey's Bay project is proceeding on schedule.
Anticipating a supply shortfall, nickel producers' stock prices have risen sharply in recent months -- even Inco's, which are up 23 percent since the strike began, closing at $25.14 in New York today.
But the share prices of stainless steel producers have been languishing, as the companies remain caught between spiraling costs and slumping demand. Besides higher nickel prices, they have complained of rising energy costs and adverse currency movements.
Slater Steel Inc., which is based in Mississauga, Ontario, and has mills in the United States and Canada, sought protection from creditors earlier this summer and warned last week of a heavy second-quarter loss. Slater said it would have to write down the value of its stainless steel inventory to reflect "manufactured costs in excess of net realizable values." The industry rule of thumb, said Mr. Gibbons of Great Plains Stainless, is that profits shrink by 5 percent for every 1 percent drop in volume.
Demand in Europe for stainless steel has also shrunk in recent months. Markus A. Moll, senior analyst at SMR -- Steel and Metals Market Research of Reutte, Austria, estimates that European stainless steel mills have cut third-quarter production by about 10 percent by extending summer maintenance shutdowns. Furthermore, Mr. Moll said in an e-mail message, many mills have indicated they will trim nickel purchases for the rest of the year.
Demand for nickel has so far been buoyed by a torrent of new stainless steel mills around the world, with new capacity of more than three million metric tons in 2002 and 2003 combined. North American Stainless, a unit of Acerinox S.A. of Spain, for instance, started up a big new hot rolling mill in Carrollton, Ky., in May.
In addition, demand has remained strong in Asia, especially in China, which in 2001 became the world's biggest stainless steel user, overtaking the United States and Japan.
China still imports about three-quarters of its stainless steel needs. Scott Hand, Inco's chairman, recently told analysts that the company expected Chinese consumption to keep growing 10 percent to 20 percent a year until at least 2006.
Still, Mr. Moll said that both nickel and stainless steel markets could be in for "a bumpy ride" over the next few months. Even China "will have a year of consolidation," he said.
Richard M. Ubinger, chief financial officer of Universal Stainless and Alloy Products Inc. of Bridgeville, Pa., said he saw no sign for now of a sustainable improvement in the stainless steel market. Universal, a relatively small producer, reported a second-quarter loss, and revenues that were down 21 percent from the period a year earlier.
But many analysts, including Mr. Moll, say prospects should brighten in 2004. They cite low inventories and the expectation that demand from the construction and automotive industries will rise as the American and European economies accelerate.
Should these forecasts prove correct, by next summer stainless steel and nickel prices could be moving in the same direction: up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NICKEL MARKETS (91%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NICKEL MINING (88%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); BREWERIES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (56%) METALS, MINERALS AND MINING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: VALE INCO LTD (93%); STAINLESS INC (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (93%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (93%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (93%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (93%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (93%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (93%); SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (72%); SIC2599 FURNITURE & FIXTURES, NEC (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (68%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (52%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (87%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW CALEDONIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



540 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Pubs Make Coziest of Investment Targets 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
In Europe this year, some of the most frenzied deal-making is centered around one of the oldest and once stodgiest of institutions, the British pub.
 On Friday, the British beer producer Scottish & Newcastle is expected to receive at least five bids for its 1,500 pubs, which include those under the Rat and Parrot and T&J Bernard names. Analysts value the chain at about $:2.5 billion ($4 billion). 
 The deal, expected to close by the end of the year, could be followed quickly by several others, analysts say, as the pub business continues a consolidation wave that began a decade ago. Traditionally, beer brewers have owned the pubs in Britain, and would serve only their own brews. 
A decade ago, the Beer Orders, a government rule, forced brewers with more than 2,000 pubs to sell them off, to prevent the dominant beer producers from remaining the dominant distributors. The law cut the beer industry in half, with most players opting to become either a brewer or a pub owner. Scottish & Newcastle, falling under the 2,000-pub limit, is among the last brewers to sell its pubs.
A string of deals since then, however, has left the pub side dominated by big chains. The 10 largest companies now own 43 percent of the country's pubs, Standard & Poor's reports.
The Scottish & Newcastle deal is attracting attention from more than just its retail competitors. Along with pub chains including Pubmaster, Mitchells & Butlers and the Laurel Pub Company, interested bidders include the private equity groups BC Partners, CVC Capital Partners and Cinven, and property investors including David and Simon Reuben, and Hugh Osmond, as well as the French bank Paribas.
BC Partners has banded with Pubmaster. But as of this evening, how the rest of the parties would align themselves remained in flux. "Everyone is talking to everyone else," said one person close to the negotiations. "This is the most extraordinary situation I've ever seen."
If Mitchells & Butlers is not the winning bidder for Scottish & Newcastle, Mitchells itself could be the next to succumb to consolidation, analysts said. Mitchells & Butlers, a 2,105-pub chain, rebuffed two buyout offers this spring.
British pubs are naturally attractive to investors because of their steady revenue streams. In Britain, about 65 percent of beer is consumed outside the home, compared with only about 25 percent in the United States. Many Britons have a "local," a pub around the corner from their home or office, that is a regular stop after work, on a weekend or even at lunchtime. Laws dating back to World War I, intended to make sure that factory workers put in a full day, force them to close at 11 p.m., but while open, they draw a constant stream of patrons.
"People drink in a good and bad economy," Peter Hansen, president of P.C. Hansen & Company, a corporate finance adviser to the industry based in London. "It is not a recession-sensitive industry." 
The overall numbers are staggering. Britain is home to about 65,000 pubs, with sales of $:23.3 billion ($37 billion) in 2001, according to the Mintel International Group, a consulting firm. A direct American comparison is hard to come by because most bars in the United States are individually owned and so do not report sales. But as a guideline, that 2001 figure for British pubs nearly matched the $40.6 billion generated that year by all McDonald's restaurants worldwide including franchises and joint ventures. 
Besides their sales streams, the business potential of pubs has drawn investors. British pubs have moved away from their smoky, sleepy roots; many owners have opted to replace brass lamps, carpet and flocked wallpaper with wood floors and big plate-glass windows and update the traditional pub menu.
Along the way, these chains also became highly sophisticated financial entities. Guy Hands, former private equity specialist at Nomura Securities in London, was the first banker to realize, in 1998, that Britain's steady stream of beer consumption, along with the rental income paid by pub franchises, would translate perfectly into securities. Now there are $6.5 billion in "beer bonds" outstanding, according to Standard & Poor's.
Some pub companies are so well tuned to their sales trends that they rely on complicated financial instruments like weather derivatives to hedge their exposure against cloudy weather, when patrons drink less than on sunny days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A patron at a London pub owned by Scottish & Newcastle tries one of its brews. The company is taking offers for its 1,500 pubs. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (92%); DRINKING PLACES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (63%); WORLD WAR I (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: MITCHELLS & BUTLERS PLC (92%); TOWN & CITY PUB CO LTD (91%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%)

TICKER: MAB (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722410 DRINKING PLACES (ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES) (92%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5813 DRINKING PLACES (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



541 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 6064 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by Times critics of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums children under 12 and museum members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary, especially in late summer when many galleries close for a few weeks, and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

"A.I.M 23," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000 (through Sept. 28). Every year the Bronx Museum puts on a show of work by participants in its Artists in the Marketplace program, which teaches emerging professionals how to manage and advance their careers. Highlights of this year's exhibition include Jeongtae Chae's optically vibrating arrangements of found objects, Joe Fig's miniature re-creations of painters' work tables, Kate Gilmore's video of herself as she tries to bring order to chaos and Hidemi Sato's obliquely poetic grids of photographs depicting brightly colored restaurant and gas station signs against blue sky. Hours: Wednesdays, noon to 9 p.m.; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 65+; free on Wednesdays (Ken Johnson).

* "THE AMERICAN EFFECT: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES ON THE UNITED STATES, 1990-2003," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street (212) 570-3676 (through Oct. 12). Exploring ways that artists throughout the world react to the United States as a superpower, this show of documentary films, videos, installations, photographs, paintings and objects by 47 artists and filmmakers and 3 collaborative groups runs from sunny side up to deep despair. There are reflections on America's military might, its industrial clout, its treatment of minorities, its consumerism, its justice system, its marketing strategies, its religious evangelism, its celebrity worship and its interference with other governments. On the other hand there are more positive expressions of admiration for the freedoms, the opportunities and the material achievements of a country unfettered by ancient traditions. A wacky installation by a French artist, Gilles Barbier, in the form of life-size figures, offers a wry take on the United States through its aging comic book heroes, viewed in the setting of a nursing home and in the last stages of decrepitude. In a very different key is a video projection dealing with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas in 1963; the work, by a Serbian artist, Zoran Naskovski, is accompanied by a poignantly chanted tribute. The show has its weak spots but overall is provocative and visually compelling. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+ (Grace Glueck).

"ANSEL ADAMS AT 100," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Nov. 3). This exhibition of 113 of Adams's photographs, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of his birth, has been traveling around the world for two years. In these warehouse galleries it has a strangely random and homely feel. The photographs look small and lost. Maybe it's the setting. Maybe it's because the show, organized roughly thematically -- austere peaks, plants, peaks with plants, grand vistas, rocks -- doesn't have a clearly focused concept. Or maybe it's because the curator wanted to tamp down Adams's bombast and replace it with something quieter, smaller and subtler. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+ (Sarah Boxer).

* MAX BECKMANN, Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Sept. 29). Like Beckmann, this retrospective of that German genius is dense, frequently revelatory and exhausting: all that heavy-handed symbolism and claustrophobia. Beckmann can seem like a truculent master, glaring balefully at us from his self-portraits, disappointed by our moral turpitude. It is easy to get bogged down in the miasma of his obscure allusions. But he also puts brush to canvas with surprising tenderness. Color is luxurious, not garish. The humor is sly and black. Finally, he is unavoidably compelling. Hours and admission: See above (Michael Kimmelman).

* "BLACK PRESIDENT: THE ART AND LEGACY OF FELA ANIKULAPO-KUTI," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 28). The Nigerian composer, musician and activist Fela Kuti (1938-1997) invented the musical style called Afrobeat, relentlessly assailed political corruption and repression in Africa and beyond through his records and performances, and led a scandalous private life very publicly. This taut, vivacious exhibition is less about the man himself than about how 30 contemporary artists, most of them African or African-American, respond to his blazing, goading lodestar presence. Their reactions range from celebratory to critical, and few are simple, but his vision of a rejuvenated Africa still shines bright. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

"LOUISE BOURGEOIS: THE INSOMNIA DRAWINGS," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Sept. 21). In an eight-month run of sleep-short nights, the sculptor Louise Bourgeois turned the draggy hours to productive use, setting down thoughts, visions and memories that rose from the floor of her consciousness. What resulted are 250 drawings, considered one work by the artist, that range from simple to complex images: among them water, mazes, clocks, houses, abstract doodles, personal comments and fragments of texts. In short a miscellany of clues to her inner and outer worlds, a scrap bag of images that may prompt her work. But while the dense, insistent visual environment they create is a bit of a phenomenon, the viewer does not really come away with a deeper understanding of the work, whose relationship to Ms. Bourgeois's deeply mined psyche is very evident in her realized art and in statements and interviews she has given over the years. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

"CHALLENGING TRADITION: WOMEN OF THE ACADEMY, 1826 TO 2003," National Academy of Design, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880 (through Jan. 4). The National Academy's conservatism is reflected in this selection of works by women who enjoyed membership since its beginning in 1825. Few early works rise above decorous academicism, and modest gentility prevails into the 1930's, when Clare Leighton made exquisitely refined wood engravings. There's more excitement in works from the last 50 years. Anne Arnold's ruggedly chiseled portrait in wood of the excellent painter Lois Dodd, Catherine Murphy's acutely observed painting of a sumac forest and Susanna Coffey's intensely compacted painted self-portrait prove traditionalism doesn't have to stultify. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $4.50 for students (Johnson).

"ART CHANTRY: GREATEST HITS, VOL. 1," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-24 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084 (through Aug. 31). The argument against graphic design as an art form receives its latest drubbing in this revelatory survey, organized by Robert Nikas and presenting more than 300 posters and album covers by Mr. Chantry, the Seattle-based designer and art director. Dating from the late 1970's to the present, these works capture much of the vitality of that city's underground music and theater scene while defining a maverick sensibility whose inventive low-tech production values and polymorphous recycling of images adds a chapter of its own to the history of appropriation art. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2 for students and 62+ (Roberta Smith).

"CUBA ON THE VERGE: AN ISLAND IN TRANSITION," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000 (through Aug. 31). Is it possible for anyone to photograph Cuba without some sort of romance creeping in? The concept behind this show of Cuban, Cuban-American and American photographers was to eschew "cliched images of vintage American cars and other remnants of a prerevolutionary era" and instead to "convey Cuba present," as the show's guest curator, Terry McCoy, writes in the catalog. But some of the photographs suggest that even as Cuba sinks deeper into poverty, ruin and prostitution, the romance of faded beauty and glamorous revolution won't go away. The most refreshing shots are those in which subjects confront the camera and the fantasy. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7, students and 62+ (Boxer).

"SALVADOR DALI: DREAM OF VENUS," Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700 (through Sept. 7). While images of the 1939 New York World's Fair in Queens remain ingrained in the American collective memory, one attraction, relegated to the "Amusement Zone," was largely forgotten until now: Dali's "Dream of Venus," a tacky Surrealist fun house with live, semi-nude women. This exhibition consists mainly of photographs that document the project from start to finish. Featuring the handsome, charismatic artist; his enigmatic wife, Gala; and lots of voluptuous, unclothed models, this show and its catalog tell a fascinating tale of idealism, opportunism, provocation and censorship. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 8 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 55+ (Johnson).

"DRAWN HOME: FRITZ VOGT'S RURAL AMERICA," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040 (through Sept. 21). During the last decade of the 19th century Vogt, a German immigrant, supported himself by making portraits of homes in upstate New York. A homeless itinerant who preferred to sleep in his patrons' barns, Vogt made wonderfully lucid, formally ingenious drawings of farms with multiple outbuildings and of elaborately decorated Victorian showpieces with manicured grounds. The 26 drawings here tap into an American ethos that elevated domestic prosperity to something like a national religion. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Admission: $9; $7, students and 62+ (Johnson).

* "DREAMING IN PICTURES: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF LEWIS CARROLL," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000 (through Aug. 31). A photograph is at least as much a looking glass as it is a window. We see in it our own reflections and obsessions. A post-Freudian world has inevitably come to see C. L. Dodgson's photographs through the looking glass of his alter ego, Lewis Carroll. This provocative show tries to put Dodgson's pictures back in their context, to stress that we have lost touch with Victorian conventions, which Dodgson largely obeyed when he photographed little girls. Childhood to Victorians represented, as the show's curator puts it, an "alternate reality, a metaphysical state of preknowledge." Dodgson, he adds, "could pose his charges in adult roles, give them guns, daggers and exotic costumes, even portray them as odalisques and half-dressed waifs, because he and most of his audience believed so emphatically in their total insulation from the implications of such postures." These presentations do not so much underscore the latent sexuality of the child (as we post-Freudians would have it) as they do an obvious lack of it." Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

"ENTERTAINING AMERICA: JEWS, MOVIES AND BROADCASTING," Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through Sept. 14). Marilyn Monroe's post-conversion mezuza and her music-box menorah are part of the lineup in this bustling roundup devoted to a century of Jewish presence in the entertainment world. A star-studded revue that takes the museum more than a step into showbiz, it covers the 20th century from the early nickelodeons that preceded the Hollywood film industry to recent television manifestations like "Seinfeld," by way of film and video clips, audio tapes, photographs, posters and other artifacts. There is Al Jolson in "The Jazz Singer"; excerpts from Yiddish film and radio; Betty Boop, the sassy personification of a first-generation American Jewish girl from the Lower East Side; and pamphlets railing against Jewish prominence in the movie industry. There are also 10 "star shrines" that celebrate, mostly tongue in cheek, personalities like Sammy Davis Jr., Barbra Streisand and the silent film vamp Theda Bara (really a Jewish girl from Ohio). Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m.; Fridays, to 3 p.m. Admission: $10; $7.50, students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "FROM EXPRESSIONISM TOTHE BAUHAUS: HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through Sept. 15). Borrowed from the Museum of Modern Art, this economical, powerfully resonant exhibition of German Modernist artworks from the first third of the 20th century includes Expressionist paintings by Ludwig Kirchner, Otto Mueller and Emil Nolde; mordantly satiric New Realist paintings by George Grosz and Otto Dix; and sumptuously elegant utilitarian objects by Marcel Breuer and Marianne Brandt. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Johnson).

"FROM PICASSO TO POLLOCK: CLASSICS OF MODERN ART," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Sept. 28). This selective anthology of perennial in-house favorites in a major museum has much to be said for it. The bait is irresistible, the promised classics turn up here and there, and both the young and the not-so-young have a fine time on the ramps. In addition to fine examples by Kandinsky, Picasso, Leger, Chagall, Kokoschka and Malevich, there is an enormous piece in ceramic tiles by Joan Miro. Begun in 1965 and finished in 1967, it is largely in black and white, but every touch of color sings out. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $9 for students and 65+ (John Russell).

* "HENDRICK GOLTZIUS, DUTCH MASTER (1558-1617): DRAWINGS, PRINTS AND PAINTINGS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 7). Goltzius (1558-1617) was one of the hottest of hotshot Dutch artists. He was particularly celebrated for his engravings, many of them mythological tableaus of pumped-up gods and pinup goddesses, rendered in the Mannerist way with flabbergasting elan. But he was also one of the great draftsmen of his age -- his landscape drawings prefigure Rembrandt and Ruisdael -- and became a virtuosic painter whose primary subject was bare human flesh: its texture, its color, its chemistry. To some eyes he remains strictly a period artist; to others he connects to the present in interesting ways. This Met show offers the raw materials for both reactions. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "GREAT WAVES: CHINESE THEMES IN THE ARTS OF KOREA AND JAPAN," Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 21). Basically a collection reinstallation with a novel mix-and-match approach, this show, spread over both the Chinese painting and Japanese galleries, traces the flow of influence from one culture to the other. Most of the action takes place in the Chinese galleries, where the art is arranged by motifs -- seascapes, landscapes, floral images -- that emerged early in China and circulated to Korea and Japan. The model proposed will provide grist for many scholarly mills in the future; the show itself is tremendous fun to look at. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ-DIEZ, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 21). Born in Venezuela in 1964, Mr. Hernandez-Diez is one of several urbane Latin American artists whose work might be described as a kind of vernacular conceptualism, a physically reductive, idea-rich art made from scraps of everyday consumerist life. His New Museum solo incorporates skateboards, household furniture, a stuffed pet dog, fake fingernails, baseball bats and photographs of designer sneakers, all put to unexpected uses. The results can be read in terms of local associations, but the real focus is on commonly shared experiences: appetite, rootlessness, faith and delusion, violence, the collective unconscious of globalized culture. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Cotter).

* "LANDSCAPE OF MEMORY: THE ART OF MU XIN," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400 (through Sept. 7). The artist and writer Mu Xin, born into a wealthy aristocratic family in China, received a classical scholar's education and early exposure to Western culture. Targeted as a dissident during the Cultural Revolution, he was held in solitary confinement for 18 months, and he secretly wrote a series of first-person meditations now called "Prison Notes," which he carried out of jail sewn in his clothes. Under house arrest several years later, he executed a remarkable series of small landscape paintings in which traditional Chinese themes meet Leonardo da Vinci. The paintings and some of "Prison Notes" are brought together in this lean, penumbral exhibition, organized by the Yale University Art Gallery and the David and Alfred Smart Museum of Art at the University of Chicago. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

"LEGENDS OF OUR TIMES: NATIVE RANCHING AND RODEO LIFE ON THE PLAINS AND THE PLATEAU," National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through March 7). This lively account of man, woman and horse among the native people in Western reaches of the United States and Canada proves that a cowboy can be an Indian, and vice versa. The show depicts native peoples not as objects of exploitation by the white man but as ranchers, cowboys, entertainers and rodeo performers. It displays more than 700 objects -- saddles, bead and quill works, paintings, photographs, blankets, clothing, horse gear, hunting implements, roundup equipment, headdresses and other ceremonial garb -- from the 18th century to now. At least half of this huge show provides an engaging and comprehensive account of rodeo, but nonrodeo fans will probably have more fun with the bedazzlement of objects depicting the more traditional side of American Indian life. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. Free (Glueck).

"MATERIAL DIFFERENCES: ART AND IDENTITY IN AFRICA," Museum for African Art, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-7700 (through October). Part Art Methods 101, part Advanced Connoisseurship, this handsome, thoughtful show examines the potent connection between matter and meaning in diverse African cultures and shows them to be organically connected. The material is spiritual in these cultures, and the show's 130 mostly ceremonial objects, arranged strictly according to materials and techniques, reflect the power of that belief. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students and 65+ (Smith).

"PULP ART: VAMPS, VILLAINS AND VICTORS FROM THE ROBERT LESSER COLLECTION," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Aug. 31). This murky exhibition showcases the small, gaudy, largely unappreciated paintings commissioned for the covers of the pulp magazines that ruled the newsstands between the wars. While ultimately a bit repetitious, their overheated depictions of sharp-jawed heroes, compromised heroines and various human and nonhuman villains highlight talents like George Rozen and Paul R. Frank. They also give vent to the dark, violent, libidinous underbelly of the American psyche, to the same degree that Norman Rockwell's paintings bless its wholesome, repressed, preternaturally sunny side. The show is essential viewing for anyone interested in popular culture past or present. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Smith).

"SITE AND INSIGHT: AN ASSEMBLAGE OF ARTISTS," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Aug. 31). Agnes Gund, former president of the Museum of Modern Art, a major collector and longtime supporter of the arts, is the curator of a generally bland show of works by 15 artists she has followed over the years. Highlights include Ellen Phelan's elegant, soft-focus landscape paintings; gnarly junk assemblages by Bruce Conner and Arthur Simms; Peter Campus's hypnotic, semi-abstracted video landscapes; and best of all Jim Hodges's enormous curtain made of hundreds of fake flowers stitched together. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission, $5; $2 for students and 62+ (Johnson).

"USDESIGN 1975-2000," Museum of Arts & Design, 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535 (through Nov. 2). This survey of objects designed during the 20th century's last quarter is disappointing, partly because few of the products on view are very interesting to look at and partly because it sheds so little light on a field that has expanded in a mind-boggling variety of directions in recent years. Focused mainly on consumer goods like chairs, clocks, lamps, teapots, telephones, sneakers, ski boots, roller blades, sunglasses and computers, it has the feel of an outmoded department store. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5 for students and 65+ (Johnson).

"WILLEM VAN TETRODE: BRONZE SCULPTURES OF THE RENAISSANCE," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Sept. 7). This exhibition introduces a neglected Dutch artist who flourished amid the cultural ferment of 16th-century Italy, when the rediscoveries of monumental Classical marbles helped fuel a passion for mythological themes, the rise of private collecting and a new sense of physical and emotional drama in sculpture. Prodigiously talented, van Tetrode navigated his own path between Classicism and Mannerism with beautifully detailed bronzes, most notably a splendidly muscled and bearded Hercules dispatching various labors with violent panache. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; $5 for students; $8 for 62+ (Smith).

"VIETNAM: JOURNEYS OF BODY, MIND AND SPIRIT," American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, (212) 769-5100 (through Jan. 4). For many Americans who came of age before or during the 1960's, Vietnam was the name of a place you didn't want to go. Even today the prevailing impression of this part of Southeast Asia seems to be a composite of remembered news clips and scenes from "Apocalypse Now." More than a quarter-century after the war, the image is due for revision, and that is the basic idea behind this show, a lavishly illustratedanthropological field trip through Vietnam today. Using objects, videos and photographs it examines popular traditions associated with marriage, death and religion, often to vivid effect, in a lively, serpentine installation. And even with many important political and social questions left unasked and unanswered, there is a wealth of information here. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $9, students and 60+ (Cotter).

"ANDY WARHOL: SCREEN TESTS," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Sept. 1). From 1964 to 1966 Warhol shot 500 short, silent, black-and-white films of artists, musicians, actors, writers, filmmakers, models, curators, celebrities and hangers-on at the Factory. The Modern has restored 277 of these screen tests, representing about 34 hours of watching time, and now 28 of the films are being shown continuously on six screens. The subjects include Baby Jane Holzer, Salvador Dali, James Rosenquist, Dennis Hopper, Cass Elliott and Susan Sontag, but they are of variable interest. By shooting the films at one speed and playing them more slowly, Warhol exposed the mechanics of discomposure and charisma. Some people are fascinating as they lose charisma; others are not. It has nothing to do with handsomeness, histrionics, coolness, slimness, trying or giving up. The typology of charisma is as elusive as the typology of criminality. Hours and admission: See above (Boxer).

Galleries: Uptown

TED FAIERS, "Paintings From the 1950's," Richard York, 21 East 65th Street, (212) 772-9155 (through Aug. 29). Indian Space painting was a mid-20th-century American movement that mixed Cubist abstraction with American Indian-style patterns and pictographs. Faiers's exercises in that now dimly remembered style have at best an appealing jazziness and chromatic radiance. There is something ultimately silly, though, about the idea of the sophisticated urbanite getting in touch with his inner shaman (Johnson).

TONY FOSTER, "Watermarks," James Graham & Sons, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 535-5767 (through Aug. 29). Mr. Foster is yet another Englishman whose art revolves around travel. Finding his way from South American tropical forests to glaciers in Greenland, he neatly documents what he sees in watercolor; he then adds found objects like bones, shells, vials of water, rocks and feathers. The art in the gallery is not as adventurous as the artist himself seems to be (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* HELMUT FEDERLE, "Works on Paper," Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Sept. 13). From the mid-1970's to the late 90's, the Swiss-born painter Helmut Federle extended his imagery from geometricized but lush mountain peaks to the freest of signs and markings. The 200 drawings on view here trace his progress. Although the work remains in a highly reductive geometricized mode, it is sometimes quirkily dreamy and sensuous, with more than a touch of whimsy. In these 200 drawings, which gain strength by from being grouped together, Mr. Federle's many and varied passes at the paper range from the precise scientific textbook rendering "Constellation" (1983) to more relaxed and painterly grids like "Untitled" (1992), in which eroded bright blue bands are dragged across a white ground. He is a great performer; even his most fragmentary wisps hold the eye (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

"BOYS OF SUMMER," ClampArt, 531 West 25th Street, (646) 230-0020 (tomorrow through Sept. 6). If you like to look at men, and you're passing by, stop in. Standing out among the crowd of pictures by more than two dozen photographers are "Bruce in His Car," a 1981 portrait of a skinny bohemian in his big red convertible by Nan Goldin; a beefy, shirtless young football player celebrating with his team, by Brian Finke; men in leather, by Barbara Nitke; and, by Malerie Marder, a large color image of a mixed-sex group of naked people relaxing in a California bathhouse (Johnson).

* "HALF AIR," Marianne Boesky, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 680-9889 (through Aug. 29). Everything in this fascinating reliquary of a show looks as if it was exhumed from some moldy basement. It includes enigmatic, semi-abstract symbolist paintings by Forrest Bess; mesmerizing, diagrammatic linear compositions by Genn Branca; videos of the performance artist Charlemagne Palestine whipping himself into Dionysian frenzies; snapshots documenting the demimonde of the performance artist Jack Smith; and scenes from a Wooster Group film featuring the seaside antics of cross-dressed nuns (Johnson).

* "IN FULL VIEW," Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, (212) 627-6000 (through Sept. 13). A show that invites visitors on a pluralistic treasure hunt for 18 artworks that tease one's limits of visual perception. Look for Christopher Chiappa's Ford Taurus gas-tank door built into the wall; Maurizio Cattelan's roosting stuffed pigeons; Vincent Shine's tiny, gold Brancusian wasp; Jim Hodges's jewelry-chain spiderweb and Charles Ray's classic "Rotating Disc" (Johnson).

"SPLIT," Sandra Gering, 534 West 22nd Street, (646) 336-7183 (through Sept. 6). The best thing in this six-person show is Xavier Veilhan's bigger-than-life skeleton woven in wicker; it slouches casually in a corner of the gallery, a marvel of exotic faux-folk art. Note, too, a dense mix of cartoon characters and abstract patterning painted collaboratively in gouache by Christian Schumann and Gary Panter (Johnson).

"THIS IS LAGOS: YABIS NIGHT, MUSIC AND FELA," Skoto, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 352-8058 (through Sept. 13). If you crave a second fix of the charismatic Nigerian musician Fela Anikulapo-Kuti after seeing "Black President" at the New Museum, Skoto is the place go. Much of this gallery's fine summer show is devoted to vivid pictures of Fela by the Nigerian photographer Femi Bankole Osunla, who was part of Fela's inner circle from the early 1970's to the musician's death from AIDS in 1997. This work is complemented by a handsome series of color images of Africa by the American photographer Howard T. Cash, two heads sculptured by Osaretin Ighile and an alterlike installation by the young American artist Sol Sax (Cotter).

"VACATION," Spike, 547 West 20th Street, (212) 627-4100 (through Sept. 20). Innocence and experience collide in the works of Norm Magnusson, who outlines juvenile, coloring-book-style images over gridded fields of pages from pointedly selected books. Jesus offering guidance to a little boy is drawn over pages from Bulfinch's "Mythology," for example, and paper-doll clothes over "Lolita." Also on view: Buck Henri's engaging photographs of exotic dancers, old cars, mannequins, small-town parades and other subjects; Alan Schmer's illustrative paintings of farm animals; and Melissa Stern's pedestal-size figurative sculptures that blend Surrealism and primitivism (Johnson).

Other Galleries

* "RAINING ELEPHANTS," Little Cakes Little Gallery, 240 East Fourth Street, Apt. 1D, East Village, (212) 979-9736 (through Aug. 31). This new apartment gallery opens up with a delightful show of work by the Pennsylvania artist Ed Wilcox and the Virginia collective Dearraindrop. Mr. Wilcox, who is in a band, works with several mediums, including painting, collage, sculpture and copying machines, with which he conjurs finely wrought, hallucinatory cartoon images. Dearraindrop specializes in what might be called collages of collages, incrementally covering the walls of the gallery with patches of fabric, cut paper, photographs, record album covers and paint. There is a library's worth of free-associational material here. Best of all, though, is their rapid-fire, eye-tickling video, a time-capsule of pop culture put through a shredder. The gallery is open Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (Cotter).

Last Chance

ANSEL ADAMS, "100 + 1," Robert Mann, 210 11th Avenue, near 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-2947 (through today). Great modern artist or purveyor of high-toned kitsch? Coinciding with the retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in Queens, this substantial show affords a fine occasion to weigh the evidence. Looking at Adams's skillfully manipulated Wild West landscapes, one feels less awakened to the wondrous complexities of photography and nature than bludgeoned by a proto-Spielbergian romanticism (Johnson).

"FRANKENSTEIN (OR IT'S ALL FUN AND GAMES UNTIL SOMEONE LOSES AN EYE)," Tanya Bonakdar, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-4144, (through today). Organized by Ethan Sklar, the gallery's director, this exhibition examines the ways artists subvert the physical and decision-making processes of art making by using machines, accident, science, random selection and all-inclusiveness and has a title perfectly suited to its sometimes scary weirdness (Smith).

"FROM GASLIGHTS TO TELEVISION," Susan Teller, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 941-7335 (through Thursday). Typewriters, stoves, refrigerators, clocks, pumps, sewing machines, telephones, fans, ice cream makers, irons and other labor-saving devices turn up in this surprising show about appliances in 20th-century American domestic life. From John Sloan's sexy etching of a woman turning off the light before joining her lover in bed to Louise Leech's painting of her teenage daughters watching the first Moon landing on television, the show conjures an engagingly humane vision of living with modern technology (Johnson).

"H2O," Danese, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 223-2227 (through today). For obvious reasons a lot of summer group shows take water as a theme, this one more directly and more effectively than most. Works by more than 30 artists include Sally Mann's mysterious photograph of three naked, nubile girls urinating; a piece of magic illusionism by Amy Jenkins that has a bathing woman video-projected into a miniature bathtub; Laura Aguilar's portrait of her own mountainously corpulent self lying naked next to a small rock pool; and a gigantically enlarged sweat gland reproduced in rubber by Jeanne Silverthorne (Johnson).

"PROTEST," Pace-McGill, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 759-7999 (through Tuesday). This timely group show is a photographic survey of late-20th-century political history, mostly American, seen from the perspective of people who refused to accept what history and politics were handing them. Breathtaking aerial views by Bob Adelman and Bruce Davidson of the 1963 Civil Rights march in Washington hang near a 1959 shot by Constantine Manos of a Ku Klux Klan cross-burning in South Carolina. Both events were bold political theater but generated from opposite ends of the ethical spectrum. Sometimes single images pack ambivalent messages. In Burt Glinn's heroizing -- or is it mock-heroizing? -- shot of Fidel Castro surrounded by rifle-toting revolutionaries we see a liberation movement in the process of turning into a repressive new status quo. The flames of resistance, the lesson seems to be, can blow in unpredictable directions (Cotter).

* "RAFAEL TUFINO: PAINTER OF THE PEOPLE," El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272 (through Sunday). Mr. Tufino was born in Brooklyn in 1930 but has spent most of his life in Puerto Rico. There are many individual images to savor in this retrospective of his paintings and prints, but it is Mr. Tufino himself who is radiant. His cosmopolitan presence in Puerto Rico and New York has encouraged generations of artists prone to view themselves as confined to a backwater, helping them to feel part of a larger world and to feel that the world they lived in is larger than they knew. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, to 9 p.m. Admission: $6; $4 for students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "THE WORLD OF BUDDHISM: SELECTIONS FROM THE MR. AND MRS. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER III COLLECTION," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through Sunday). Anyone familiar with the Rockefeller collection is already feeling blissed out by its return to public view. Everyone else will have the delight of a first-time encounter with embodiment of the Buddha in many forms, from an earthly stone figure carved in fifth-century India, to the celestial eighth-century bronze Buddha of the Future, probably made in northern Thailand, and now one of the great art sights of New York. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Max Beckmann's "Self-Portrait in Blue Jacket" (1950), part of a retrospective of his work at the Museum of Modern Art in Queens. (Photo by ARS, New York/ADAGP, Paris); A 1981 watercolor by Helmut Federle at Peter Blum in SoHo. (Photo by Peter Blum-Blumarts Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); RELIGION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (63%); ASSASSINATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



542 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Weekender Stonington, Conn.

BYLINE:  By GEORGINA GUSTIN 

 BODY:
A RATHER affluent, rather literary little village." That characterization of the borough of Stonington, Conn., by Uday Mehta, a professor of political science at Amherst College, may be something of an understatement. For years Stonington, on a quiet peninsula that juts into Long Island Sound, has lured intellectual, wealthy urbanites drawn by its almost islandlike feeling.
 "It's very self-contained," said Inger McCabe Elliott, a photojournalist and designer who lives on Water Street with her husband, Osborn Elliott, a former editor of Newsweek. 
 The shelves of the village bookstore are stocked with titles by resident authors, past and present, including James Merrill, J. D. McClatchy, Peter Benchley and Eleanor Perenyi. And the borough is about to build a firehouse designed by Philip Johnson's architectural firm. 
Yet you can buy native scallops from a local fisherman's freezer, day or night, by putting cash into a slot. The influx of affluent residents and second-home owners has displaced most of the Portuguese fishing families who built a robust village economy in the 19th century, but not all. The state's last remaining commercial fleet still calls the borough home.
"The fleet is really the heart and soul of the village," said Andrew M. Maynard, the borough's warden, whose job is roughly what a mayor's would be. "It adds immeasurably."
Now, on Main Street, one of the two primary thoroughfares in the borough, you will still find the Portuguese Holy Ghost Society, but you will also find renovated captain's houses. The borough, which is the historic center of the sprawling town of Stonington, is simple and grand at the same time, with plain fishermen's cottages wedged next to each other and pillared homes facing Fishers Island Sound.
"I think of it as having a kind of understated charm," said Mr. Mehta, who recently bought a second home there.
The borough is on Fishers Island Sound, an area of Long Island Sound between the Connecticut shoreline and Fishers Island. Bell buoys and foghorns provide the soundtrack to the banter on Water Street as people go to Tom's News for the papers in the morning or out for cocktails in the evenings. The borough's size, less than one square mile, with just 1,200 residents, makes it a walking-friendly place, and the streets are the social backbone of the community.
It is one of several villages within the town of Stonington, but is its own political entity, run by a Board of Warden and Burgesses, which oversees everything from sanitation to sidewalks. Several weekend residents have been board members.
"Stonington is not a resort town," Ms. Elliott said. "It's a village."

The Scene
The proximity of the houses in the borough creates an intimate social dynamic. "It's one of the charms and one of the drawbacks," said Ned Davies, a dealer at a Chelsea art gallery who divides his weeks between his 1760 Colonial house in Stonington and his Greenwich Village apartment. "You have to like that kind of social interaction."
In the mid-1990's, Mr. Davies started a Web site, The Stonington Intelligencer (www.stoningtonct.com), where he posts small village news items and book reviews by local academics and writers.
"We found out there was a dearth of parochial information," he said. Now, he laughed, "you can plug in from London and find out who hit the tree -- the important things, the things we talk about at dinner."
The Intelligencer's Web cam shows a view of Diving Street. "It's been a huge hit," Mr. Davies said. "People like to see what the weather's like."
The Intelligencer has also become a forum for discussion of borough affairs, from zoning disputes to benefit auctions for the Stonington Free Library.
"Going to some of the town meetings is pretty fun," said Michael Adair, a high school teacher from Bedford, N.Y., who bought a home on Water Street last year. "It's entertainment."
Alice Fitzpatrick, who moved to the borough from California six years ago, has found not only what she calls "an antidote to the anonymity of L.A.," but an unusual social group.
She is a member of the Waccos, for Women Alone in a Cooperative Community, a collective of single women in the borough who have banded together and formed a support system.
"Instead of a taxi, you call a Wacco," said Beth Walker, who formed the group shortly after moving to the borough in the early 90's when she stepped back from daily management of her business, the Walker Publishing Company. "It's an extraordinarily caring community."
That is a side of Stonington that many people do not see, some residents say. "Most people think it's a snooty, yachty place," Ms. Fitzpatrick said, "but that's not been my experience."

Pros
Stonington is a boater's paradise. The borough alone has two boat yards, 400 town moorings and two yacht clubs, the new Stonington Harbor Yacht Club and the Wadawanuck Yacht Club. Though the wait to join the Wadawanuck can be years, Stonington Harbor can take members right away, and because the town recently adopted a new harbor management plan, the wait for town moorings, which used to be as long as 10 years, is now just a season or two.
The Stonington Community Center, known as the Como to locals, has summer programs and sponsors film showings at duBois Beach, the town of Stonington's only public beach.
The borough has four restaurants and one of the largest farmers' markets in Connecticut, held at the town docks. The whole town celebrates at the Fourth of July potluck dinner on the lawn by the Old Lighthouse Museum, which sits at the end of the peninsula. (This year's dinner went forward despite a huge late-night fire on July 3 that destroyed an old factory building on Water Street, leaving a charred husk along the waterfront and damaging nearby homes.) 
The borough is tucked away on its peninsula and has less tourist traffic than many other picturesque seaside towns, but some residents like the winters, when the visitors go away. "I hear only the seagulls, the bell buoys and the distant train whistle," said the poet J. D. McClatchy, who, with his partner, the graphic designer and author Chip Kidd, divides his time between the borough and an apartment in Little Italy. "It's gray, it's lonely, but those are the perfect conditions for a writer."

Cons
Few houses in the borough have any substantial amount of land.
Because the borough is a historic district, zoning laws are very strict, so anyone wanting to experiment architecturally will not get a warm reception.
Parking is limited, and in the summer residents often find their favorite roadside spots taken by tourists.
Residents lament the disappearance of amenities within walking distance. Two decades ago, the borough had a hardware store, a drug store and three grocery stores. Now, antiques shops predominate.
Stonington is expensive. Property values and taxes have increased sharply in the last decade, forcing out people of limited means.

The Real Estate Market
Prices for homes for sale in the borough range from $299,000 for a modest three-bedroom, two-bathroom house built in 1900 on the side of the train tracks away from the peninsula, to $5.9 million for a totally refurbished estate with five bedrooms and eight bathrooms in the heart of the borough. There are 13 active listings on the market in the borough this week.
Outside the borough, prices for houses in the town of Stonington start at $99,000. "The borough is one of four peninsulas that go into the ocean," said Stuart Cole of Cole Real Estate (860-535-1953), "and each of these peninsulas have a mini-market." On Wamphassuc Point, opposite the borough on Stonington Harbor, prices are comparable to those in the borough. On Latimer and Lord's Points, costs are lower. But generally, little shoreline property is for sale.
Cole Real Estate has listed the 1870 Zebulan Hancox house, near the tip of the peninsula in the borough, with three bedrooms and one and a half baths, for $475,000.
The average house in the borough ranges in price from $600,000 to $800,000, according to Nancy Tapley, a real estate agent with Pequot Properties in nearby Mystic (860-536-4906). "You can buy in the threes, but you'll need to do $100,000 of work," she said. "If you want a water view, it's $700,000 and up."
This week Pequot Properties was offering a 1,700-square-foot Cape built in 1914 for $350,000, and a 2,300-square-foot, six-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath Victorian for $450,000.
Christine Wright, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker, which has offices in the borough (860-535-1882), said the market was "holding its own."
"The prices aren't coming down," she said, "but the days on the market, or D.O.M., as we call it, is increasing."
This week Coldwell Banker was offering a two-bedroom, two-bathroom expanded Cape built in 1765 for $698,000 and a newly built colonial-style house with three bedrooms, two bathrooms and water views for $750,000.

LAY OF THE LAND
A Borough for Boaters and Book Lovers

POPULATION -- About 1,200 (of 17,984 in the larger town of Stonington).
SIZE -- Less than a square mile.
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE -- $698,000 in the borough; $498,000 for the town.
RECENT SALES -- An 1840 house in the heart of the borough of Stonington, with five bedrooms, three bathrooms and five working fireplaces, sold for $840,000; an 1880 house with four bedrooms and two bathrooms, with a water view, sold for $545,000; an 1871 colonial-style house with five bedrooms and four bathrooms on the waterfront, with a separate one-bedroom apartment, sold for $995,000.
DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK -- 140 miles.
TRAVEL TIME -- In light traffic, three hours.
GETTING THERE -- Take Interstate 95 northbound to Exit 91, marked toward North Main Street/Stonington Borough. Turn right onto Pequot Trail/Route 234 and drive about a third of a mile to North Main Street. Follow North Main Street for 2.3 miles to Trumbull Avenue and go left. Take Trumbull to Alpha Avenue and go right. Alpha Avenue leads straight into the borough.
WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The 18-room Inn at Stonington (860-535-2000), which opened in 2001, has rooms for $175 to $295 during midweek, and for $195 to $395 on weekends.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SEASIDE CHARM -- One draw on a hot day in Stonington, Conn., is duBois Beach. The community center shows films at the beach, too. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlighting Stonington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: GUSTIN, GEORGINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) STONINGTON (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



543 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: New Video Releases 

 BODY:
Bowling for Columbine
 In the good-natured confrontational style of his 1989 documentary "Roger and Me," Michael Moore, left, tracks gun violence far and wide, beginning with the massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo. Larger questions include why Americans shoot one another much more frequently than people in other developed countries do and why they are so inclined when other societies are as inundated with violent entertainment and as affected by unemployment and other strains. But though Mr. Moore seems to be digging for specific historical causes, he indulges in glib generalizations and oversimplifications. When he goes against his prejudices, his appraisal is riveting and scary, but "the slippery logic, tendentious grandstanding and outright demagoguery on display in 'Bowling for Columbine' should give pause to its most ardent partisans," A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. 

2002. MGM. VHS, $49.99; DVD, $26.90. 119 minutes. Closed captioned. R.

The Good Thief
Neil Jordan's remake of Jean-Pierre Melville's atmospheric, poetic film noir "Bob le Flambeur" heightens the combustion by a few cylinders. As played by Nick Nolte, Bob is an old trickster with his cards close to his vest. A gambler and heroin addict, he kicks the habit long enough to become involved in a casino heist. A towering figure of the Nice demimonde, Bob seems able to get away with just about anything and finds an advantage even when he doesn't. That kind of cool and sense of irony puts Bob beyond torment. It also attracts a beautiful 18-year-old Russian emigree (Nutsa Kukhianidze). "Mr. Jordan has the right actor for the task. Mr. Nolte uses 'The Good Thief' as a haven for a majestic ruin he has worked at for years" (Elvis Mitchell).

2003. Fox. VHS, $110.99; DVD, $27.90. 109 minutes. Closed captioned. R.

All the Real Girls
A self-assured 18-year-old named Noel (Zooey Deschanel) returns from a girls' boarding school and tells her would-be boyfriend, Paul (Paul Schneider), that she's passing up college because she doesn't see much point in spending four years writing bad-girl poetry. Paul tells her she'll find plenty of bad poetry around her North Carolina hometown, but the pair's sweet, inconclusive romance has lyricism in the second filmby David Gordon Green ("George Washington"). With unabashed sincerity and tenderness, Mr. Green "captures both the world-stopping intensity and the delicate absurdity of youthful longing, and Paul and Noel themselves are at once gawkily real and luminously peculiar" (Scott).

2003. Columbia TriStar. VHS, $54.99; DVD, $24.95. 108 minutes. Closed captioned. R.

Straight to Video

Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a theater release, appeared on television or been on videocassette or DVD in earlier editions.

I'M GOING HOME. In Manoel de Oliveira's film, the 75-year-old Michel Piccoli is Gilbert Valence, a distinguished French actor performing scenes as a dying monarch in Ionesco's "Exit the King," as Prospero in "The Tempest" and as Buck Mulligan in a screen adaptation of Joyce's "Ulysses." Mr. Piccoli is the alter ego of the Portuguese-born Mr. de Oliveira, who was 92 when this film was made. Old age doesn't automatically confer wisdom and artistic profundity, but when it does, as in the case of Mr. de Oliveira, "what can emerge is a remarkable mixture of appreciation and sadness, colored with an implacable, clear-eyed awareness of looming extinction," Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times. The DVD has a commentary by Richard Pena, program director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center. 2001. Milestone. VHS, $29.95; DVD, $29.99. 90 minutes. French with English subtitles. Information: (800) 603-1104.

MARYAM. In 1979, with American hostages being held in Iran, a 16-year-old Iranian-American girl (Mariam Parris) tries to fit into her suburban New Jersey world. Ramin Serry's film falters when he reaches for drama, but he works well with a gifted cast that has a feel for emotional details. "Ms. Parris, a quicksilver young talent who projects common sense, is a real find," Elvis Mitchell wrote in The Times. 2000. Wellspring. VHS, $49.98. DVD, $24.90. 90 minutes. No rating.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (88%); POETRY (88%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); FILM GENRES (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); HEROIN (66%) RECORDINGS (VIDEO); MOTION PICTURES 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE (MOVIE); GOOD THIEF, THE (MOVIE); ALL THE REAL GIRLS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



544 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Telecom Role In Decline, JDS Uniphase Gets New Boss

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
JDS Uniphase, a maker of telecommunications components whose stock was among the highest of the highfliers in the late 1990's, announced a major shake-up in its executive ranks today. 
 Jozef Straus, 57, one of the company's founders, is retiring as chief executive and co-chairman, and will be replaced by Kevin Kennedy, formerly chief operating officer of Openwave Systems Inc. of Redwood City, Calif., which makes mobile phone and messaging software. He had earlier worked in the optical networking division of Cisco Systems. 
 JDS Uniphase also said that Syrus Madavi, its chief operating officer, had resigned. 
Mr. Kennedy, 47, said today that his priority was to continue a cost-reduction plan for JDS Uniphase, which makes components to increase the speed and capacity of fiber optic networks. While he has been on the company's board for the last two years, "I don't feel encumbered by history," he said. 
Under Mr. Straus, JDS Uniphase went on an acquisition binge. During the late 1990's, its fiber optic equipment was in high demand from companies like Lucent Technologies and Nortel Networks. But the telecommunications-spending bubble burst, and JDS has spent the last two years grappling with the slump in demand. 
In July 2001, JDS wrote down by $44.8 billion the value of companies it had acquired in the two previous years. For its fiscal year that ended June 30, the company reported a loss of $934 million. 
JDS has reduced its work force from a peak of almost 20,000 in 2001 to 5,500 now, and said today that in the future it would have a single head office in San Jose, Calif. 
For the last four years, it has maintained a second headquarters in Nepean, Ontario, near Ottawa, stemming from its $7 billion acquisition of JDS Fitel, a Canadian maker of fiber optic equipment.
Mr. Straus, known for his beret and beard, has worked for JDS for 20 years. He said that the chief operating officer, Mr. Madavi, 54, had initially been considered the leading candidate to succeed him. Mr. Madavi and the board had discussed their "mutual perspectives," Mr. Straus said, and after "much deliberation and careful consideration of these perspectives," the board decided to give the job to Mr. Kennedy. 
Dennis Gallagher, an analyst with the SoundView Technology Group of Old Greenwich, Conn., expressed surprise that Mr. Madavi had not been offered the top job. Despite continuing losses, JDS had made considerable progress, he said, by trimming a large chunk of midlevel management, expanding its Asian business and using its technology to develop products outside its traditional business in the telecommunications and cable TV sectors.
Shares of JDS rose 31 cents today, or nearly 10 percent, to $3.50 in Nasdaq trading. In March 2000, the stock traded above $146.
JDS has faced intensifying competition in the components sector from suppliers like Intel and Hitachi and Furukawa Electric of Japan. Almost half of JDS's revenue now comes from nontelecommunications customers. Asia accounted for 13 percent of sales in the fourth quarter.
Earlier this year, JDS bought LA Label, a maker of pressure-sensitive labels based in Commerce, Calif. JDS said that its optical technology could be integrated into labels and packaging to protect branded products against counterfeiting. 
The company has also increasingly moved into assembling its components into modules. "That's what the customers want," Mr. Gallagher said.
When JDS released its latest financial results last month, it said that it expected sales to slip further, to $145 million to $155 million, in the current quarter, from $161 million in the three months to June and $222 million a year earlier. It said that it expected to break even on an operating basis in the quarter ending June 30, 2004, assuming sales of $170 million to $200 million.
Arnab Chanda, an analyst with Lehman Brothers in San Francisco, said, "The company has done fine considering their business has not improved."
"But there are still a lot of things to fix," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: JDS UNIPHASE CORP (92%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (83%); UNWIRED PLANET INC (72%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (68%); INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); WIT SOUNDVIEW GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JDS UNIPHASE CORP 

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (92%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (92%); UPIP (NASDAQ) (72%); ALU (PAR) (68%); ALU (NYSE) (68%); ALU (BIT) (68%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (72%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: STRAUS, JOZEF; KENNEDY, KEVIN; MADAVI, SYRUS; SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



545 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Bush Tries to Put Focus on Domestic Policy, but Events Conspire Against Him

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Ore., Aug. 21 

 BODY:
With two big forest fires darkening the skies near here, President Bush could hardly have had a more compelling setting today to promote his approach to reduce the risk of devastating blazes. He even took a bumpy helicopter ride for a close-up look, providing another of the made-for-television images that the White House uses skillfully.
 But with the ruins from terrorist attacks smoldering halfway across the globe, Mr. Bush's efforts to burnish his environmental credentials, court moderate voters and focus the nation on domestic matters struggled for traction. The attention of the news media and much of the world remained riveted by the Mideast violence and the growing terrorist threat in Iraq. Today served mostly as a reminder of how much Mr. Bush's standing is hostage to his foreign policy and events abroad. 
 Since Mr. Bush landed on the carrier Abraham Lincoln on May 1 under a banner proclaiming "Mission Accomplished," the White House has tried to refocus its message to domestic concerns, starting with the economy but extending to other issues vital to the strategy of claiming the political center.
Starting a day after flying to the Lincoln, he stepped up promotion of his domestic agenda on points like tax cuts, health care, energy and limits on lawsuit awards. Today in Oregon, a state he lost by fewer than 7,000 votes, Mr. Bush was distracted from his plan to expand logging as a way to thin forests and reduce fire risk. On Friday in neighboring Washington, he is to make a case for how his policies on hydroelectric dams and river management have led to a salmon resurgence.
If only the world will listen. With television images and newspaper headlines focused on the violence overseas and what it says about leadership on antiterrorism, "there is always the potential for taking away the White House's strategy and message of focusing on the economy, health care, the environment and swing voters," said James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University in Washington. 
To some degree, the focus on an unstable threat-filled world works to Mr. Bush's advantage. His position as commander in chief of an open-ended war on terrorism is the foundation of his standing and a difficult credential for his would-be Democratic challengers to overcome.
Polls show that voters are far more concerned about the economy than terrorism and that they give Mr. Bush far lower marks on the economy and domestic issues generally than on foreign policy. Moreover, Mr. Bush's foreign policy ratings are also falling as Washington encounters problems in Iraq.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll last month, 52 percent of respondents disapproved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy, with 40 percent approving. A poll this month by the Pew Research Center found that the number of people saying the military effort in Iraq was going very well had fallen, to 19 percent from 61 percent in April. The same poll found that 57 percent of respondents said Mr. Bush should primarily focus on the economy versus 27 percent who said he should focus on terrorism. At the beginning of the year, 43 percent said he should focus on terrorism and 38 percent said he should focus on the economy.
Mr. Bush's overall approval ratings, while still strong, have also fallen, from more than 70 percent in many polls in the war to below 60 percent in many polls.
"The question is how long can his ratings hold up while the Iraq situation seems to go from bad to worse, and can he get traction on his domestic agenda when people are distracted constantly by Iraq and the Middle East," said Andrew Kohut, executive director of the Pew Research Center.
The focus on events abroad "does emphasize his strong point, but his strong point is getting weaker," Mr. Kohut said.
Mr. Bush did his part to stay on message today. In two speeches, he did not mention the announcement by Palestinian terrorists that they were declaring an end to their cease-fire with Israel. Nor did he mention the bombing on Tuesday in Baghdad, and he took no questions from reporters.
Even when he managed to command attention on the domestic front, Mr. Bush faced challenges. As his motorcade whisked him to a $1 million fund-raiser in Portland, he passed unusually large numbers of protesters, despite approaching by what seemed to be a back route. Environmental groups issued statements condemning his forest policy as a sop to the timber industry.
In both appearances, Mr. Bush acknowledged the uncomfortable reality for him that Oregon's unemployment rate, at 7.8 percent, was far above the national rate of 6.2 percent.
He received a warm reception here from a crowd of several hundred people who sat in a brisk breeze that fanned the fires on the horizon and applauded when he said the nation should leave behind what he called the "propaganda of what it means to protect forests." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FIRES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); HELICOPTERS (72%); DAMAGES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (70%); LITIGATION (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); RIVERS (64%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; LOGGING INDUSTRY; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) ISRAEL; IRAQ; OREGON

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



546 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Conan The Deceiver 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The key moment in Arnold Schwarzenegger's Wednesday press conference came when the bodybuilder who would be governor brushed aside questions with the declaration, "The public doesn't care about figures." This was "fuzzy math" on steroids -- Mr. Schwarzenegger was, in effect, asserting that his celebrity gives him the right to fake his way through the election. Will he be allowed to get away with it?
 Reporters were trying to press Mr. Schwarzenegger for the specifics so obviously missing from his budget plans. But while he hasn't said much about what he proposes to do, the candidate has nonetheless already managed to say a number of things that his advisers must know are true lies. 
 Even Mr. Schwarzenegger's description of the state economy is pure fantasy. He claims that the state is bleeding jobs because of its "hostile environment" toward business, and that California residents groan under an oppressive tax burden: "From the time they get up in the morning and flush the toilet, they're taxed."
One look at the numbers tells you that his story is fiction. Since the mid-1990's California has added jobs considerably faster than the nation as a whole. And while the state has been hit hard by the technology slump, it has done no worse than other parts of the country. A recent study found that California's tech sector had actually weathered the slump better than its counterpart in Texas. Meanwhile, California isn't a high-tax state: through the 1990's, state and local taxes as a share of personal income more or less matched the national average, and with the recent plunge in revenue they're now probably below average.
What is true is that California's taxes are highly inequitable: thanks to Proposition 13, some people pay ridiculously low property taxes. Warren Buffett, supposedly acting as Mr. Schwarzenegger's economic adviser, offered the perfect example: he pays $14,401 in property taxes on his $500,000 home in Omaha, but only $2,264 on his $4 million home in Orange County. But the candidate quickly made it clear that Mr. Buffett should stick to the script and not mention inconvenient facts.
When Mr. Schwarzenegger threw his biceps into the ring, he seemed to think that, like George W. Bush, he could adopt a what-me-worry approach to budget deficits. "The first thing that you have to do is not worry about should we cut the programs or raise the taxes and all those things," he told Fox News. Then someone must have explained to him that a governor, unlike a president, can't just decide that red ink isn't a problem. In fact, one reason Gray Davis is so unpopular is that, unlike the challengers, he has actually had to take painful steps to close the budget gap. Although news reports continue, inexplicably, to talk about a $38 billion deficit, the projected gap for next year is only $8 billion.
So Mr. Schwarzenegger now says that he will balance the budget, while bravely declaring that he is against any unpleasant measures this might involve. He wants to roll back the increase in the vehicle license fee, which was crucial to the state's recent fiscal progress, and he says he won't propose any offsetting tax increases. And while these promises mean that he must come up with large spending cuts, he refuses to say what he will cut. His excuse is that his advisers couldn't make "heads or tails" of the California budget. 
Please. The details are complicated, but the broad picture isn't. Education dominates the budget, accounting for more than half of general fund spending. Medical care dominates the rest. The last remaining big chunk is corrections. 
Yet the candidatesays he won't touch education. Sharp cuts in medical spending would be not only cruel but foolish, since in many cases they would mean losing federal matching funds. And prison spending is largely determined by the state's "three strikes" law. In short, he's not leveling with voters: there's no way to balance the budget while honoring all his promises. 
But the candidate says that specifics don't matter, that the public just wants someone "tough enough." Does he really think that voters will confuse him with the characters he plays?
So here's the question: Can a celebrity candidate muscle his way into public office without ever being held accountable for his statements? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); TRENDS (67%); CELEBRITIES (57%) RECALL (ELECTIONS); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



547 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in House Endorse A Replacement if Davis Loses 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
In a sign that Democrats are increasingly worried about Gov. Gray Davis's ability to defeat the recall, California's Congressional Democrats today endorsed the candidacy of a fellow Democrat, Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, in the Oct. 7 recall election.
 The 33 Democratic members of the House of Representatives continued to urge voters to reject the recall of Mr. Davis, which is the first of two questions posed on the recall ballot. 
 But for the first time the delegation said voters should select Mr. Bustamante as the replacement should Mr. Davis lose, a position Mr. Bustamante has forwarded as a central theme of his campaign.
"Lieutenant Governor Bustamante was duly elected just 10 months ago to take over the governor's job if a vacancy occurred in that office," Representative Zoe Lofgren, chairwoman of the delegation, said in a statement. "We strongly oppose the recall, but if California voters make a different choice, then Lieutenant Governor Bustamante is the appropriate person to assume the office."
The announcement came on the same day that Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, spoke out publicly against such a strategy, and it was the most significant of a growing number of endorsements of Mr. Bustamante as Mr. Davis appears increasingly vulnerable to defeat. The California Teachers Association, which has 355,000 members, and the CDF Firefighters Association, which represents the state's largest fire departments, both endorsed Mr. Bustamante today.
"The support of Bustamante is not an attack on Gov. Gray Davis," Bob Wolf, president of the firefighters association, said in Sacramento. "However, it is senseless to not pay attention to both sides of the ballot."
Barbara E. Kerr, president of the teachers union, said the union would mobilize its members to both defeat the recall and ensure a victory for Mr. Bustamante.
"We know that Lieutenant Governor Bustamante has a long history of supporting students, teachers and public schools," Ms. Kerr said in a statement.
A poll released today by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California showed that 58 percent of likely voters would vote to remove Mr. Davis as governor. The same poll showed that the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger was the preferred replacement candidate, with the support of 23 percent of likely voters. Mr. Bustamante placed second, with 18 percent. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Mr. Davis and some other prominent Democrats have long insisted that Democratic voters ignore the second half of the ballot. Mr. Davis was furious when Mr. Bustamante broke ranks with the party leadership two weeks ago and added his name to the list of replacement candidates, which totals 135.
Peter Ragone, a spokesman for the Davis campaign against the recall, said the governor had since come to terms with Mr. Bustamante's candidacy and now believed that the Bustamante strategy -- vote no on the recall, yes for Bustamante -- would help save the governor's job.
"We don't believe it is bad news," Mr. Ragone said of the Congressional delegation's endorsement of Mr. Bustamante. "The bottom line is that we are unified against the recall and that there are going to be significant resources from across the state going into the campaign against the recall. And that is the way to win this thing."
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, said at a news conference here that the endorsement was "an act of friendship" toward Mr. Davis and was made with the calculation that it would help him defeat the recall by drawing more voters.
She predicted that Mr. Bustamante, the state's highest-ranking Latino officeholder, would attract Latino voters offended by the fact that a Hispanic lieutenant governor would be denied the opportunity to assume the governorship in the event the governor was removed. 
Ms. Pelosi described the delegation's strategy as a "one-two punch" for the Democrats.
"Make no mistake, the goal of our delegation is to retain Governor Davis as the governor of California and to reject this misguided recall," she said. "Our hope is that by a unified effort on our part, that we will attract more people to the polls who care about our state, and they will vote no on the recall."
But Ms. Feinstein, who had rejected calls from fellow Democrats to join the ranks of successor candidates, has worried that the voters would receive mixed signals if they were encouraged to both reject the recall and also choose a successor candidate. She has described the no-but-yes approach as too confusing to succeed and as giving the recall more legitimacy than it deserves. 
At an appearance today with Mr. Davis in Los Angeles, she repeated her stance, saying she would vote no on the recall and skip the second part of the ballot.
"I am very concerned, as a senior senator from this state, about the instability, the uncertainty that this recall is bringing about," Ms. Feinstein said. "It is not healthy financially, it is not healthy politically and it's not healthy economically. So I am urging people to vote no on the recall."
But Ms. Feinstein reserved most of her ire for Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has made a career as an action-hero actor. Joining Mr. Davis to urge a permanent ban on military-style assault weapons, Ms. Feinstein criticized Mr. Schwarzenegger's violent movie roles.
"Violence begets violence," Ms. Feinstein said, "and you become a role model for someone of lesser maturity out on the street to try to imitate what you do in a movie." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); TEACHER UNIONS (87%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (86%); POLITICS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); RECALL (ELECTIONS); ENDORSEMENTS; ORGANIZED LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: ;CALIFORNIA TEACHERS ASSN; CDF FIREFIGHTERS ASSN; PUBLIC POLICY INSTITUTE OF CALIFORNIA 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); ZOE LOFGREN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) MURPHY, DEAN E; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BUSTAMANTE, CRUZ (LT GOV); FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); PELOSI, NANCY (REP); SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003 



548 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: THE BLACKOUT: CANADA; 
Power Not Fully Restored, Ontario Re-examines Policy

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
With engineers still struggling today to restore full power to industries and households in Ontario, a spirited debate has erupted over the wisdom of recent energy policies in the province, Canada's most populous.
 The province's premier, Ernie Eves, said today that the state of emergency that had been in effect since the blackout would be lifted this evening and that he expected power supplies to be back to normal by Monday. Since the blackout, the government has urged all power users to cut consumption by 50 percent or face temporary blackouts. 
 The delay in restoring full power is figuring in the debate over Ontario's energy policies. In the last week, much of that debate has centered on a four-year price freeze imposed last fall, which, critics say, has led to increased consumption while discouraging new investment in generating and transmission capacity. 
"The freeze is great for the consumer, but it's doing nothing to encourage people to conserve energy," said Rocco Sebastiano, an energy specialist at Osler Hoskin Harcourt, a Toronto law firm.
Mr. Eves said this week that he might reconsider the freeze. His ruling Progressive Conservative Party is running well behind the Liberals in public opinion polls and political observers expect Mr. Eves to call an election soon, possibly as early as October.
The premier's second thoughts on electricity pricing are one example of how the blackout has affected debate on power regulation in Ontario, which accounts for about 40 percent of the Canadian economy. 
Ontario and several other provinces form an integral part of the North American power grid. The Northeast region of the North American Electric Reliability Council covers New York State and New England, as well as Ontario, Quebec and the Maritime provinces. 
But the regulatory system in Canada differs in several important respects from that in the United States. Under the Canadian Constitution, the provinces have jurisdiction over electricity, and each province has its own regulatory framework. In Ontario and Quebec, the provincial government is the sole shareholder in the main generation and transmission utilities. In Toronto and Ottawa, municipal corporations distribute power to homes and businesses. 
Thomas Adams, executive director of Energy Probe, a nonprofit research group based in Toronto, said Ontario's power sector had gone through three phases in the last four years. Before 1999, when it was dominated by Ontario Hydro, a single government-owned utility, "it was central planning with a plan," Mr. Adams said. With the introduction of deregulation and competition in May 2002, "we were going to use the market mechanism to balance supply and demand."
Genevieve Lavallee, an analyst at Dominion Bond Rating Service in Toronto, said the government's backtracking on deregulation meant that "there's no incentive to invest in transmission." 
At the time of the blackout, rates in the deregulated wholesale market were three times the fixed retail price of 4.3 cents a kilowatt-hour. The difference between wholesale and retail prices is made up by the province in the form of increased debt. 
The extent of this subsidy has yet to be disclosed. Though the Ontario Electricity Financial Corporation, which holds the province's power-related debt, is required by law to publish its accounts within 90 days of the end of its fiscal year, it has yet to produce a report for the most recent period, which ended March 31.
Paul Kahnert, a spokesman for the Ontario Electricity Coalition, a group that favors continued government control of power supplies, agreed that "power at cost" was the likely outcome of the debate. But "it has to be a regulated rate," Mr. Kahnert said. "We don't want a rate that's subject to market manipulation."
The relationship between Canadian and American utilities and regulators has also come under growing scrutiny since the blackout.
Mr. Adams expressed concern that efforts to change energy policies in the United States might take little account of Canadian interests, especially given the low profile of the Canadian government in electricity issues. "The legislative process in the United States doesn't leave a lot of room for considerations that extend beyond Congressional districts," he said. Setting up "an effective international reliability regulator will be a major challenge."
At the time of the blackout, Ontario was using about 1,700 megawatts of power imported from the United States, out of total consumption of 25,000 megawatts. After reports emerged that the shutdown had its origins in Ohio, Mr. Eves said Ontario should become more self-reliant.
Two of the province's nuclear power stations are now running well below capacity because of technical and safety concerns. Four units of the Pickering station, east of Toronto, with a combined output of 2,000 megawatts, have been out of service since 1997.
After last year's backtracking on deregulation, Sithe Energies of New York stopped work on two gas-fired plants near Toronto with a combined capacity of 2,000 megawatts. According to Ms. Lavallee, the government "would have to change the environment here if they want to bring in private investment." 
Some opposition politicians have suggested that Ontario should look more to the neighboring provinces of Quebec and Manitoba than to the United States to plug future supply shortages. 
But Mr. Sebastiano, the lawyer, said that Manitoba was too far away from Ontario's urban centers to make such projects viable, and that it would take some time to expand transmission links from Quebec. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BONDS (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Wage and Price Controls; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: OSLER HOSKIN & HARCOURT LLP (55%); ONTARIO HYDRO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Ernie (Premier) Eves; Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Ontario (Canada); Northeastern States (US); Canada

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



549 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expects Informal Direct Talks With North Korea 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The Bush administration will not offer any specific economic or diplomatic rewards to North Korea to abandon its nuclear arms program but will not stop other countries from making such offers, administration officials said today as they prepared for a new round of talks with North Korea.
 They also said the principal State Department negotiator in the talks, Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly, would probably have informal one-on-one conversations with his North Korean counterpart during a six-nation meeting next week in Beijing. 
 The American officials acknowledged that the face-to-face talks might be considered a small concession to the North Koreans, who had long demanded dealing directly -- and exclusively -- with the United States in resolving the nuclear crisis. 
But a senior administration official insisted that "there won't be any bargaining" directly between the countries. The official added that the North Korean vice foreign minister who is being sent to the Beijing talks "is a messenger who will not be ready to deal" anyway. 
The meetings in China were made possible when North Korea dropped its demand for bilateral negotiations with Washington.
The administration has been hinting for weeks that it may consider offering some specific rewards to North Korea, like a written assurance that the United States has no intention of attacking, in exchange for North Korea's promise of a complete and verifiable shutdown of its nuclear weapons program.
But a senior State Department official speaking with reporters today said the United States was "not going with some package of rewards in anticipation of progress." 
Asked if the United States would object if the other nations in the talks -- China, Russia, South Korea and Japan -- offered inducements, the official replied, "We're just going to have to hear what the countries suggest."
"There could be inducements that would really trouble us," he said. "There could be suggestions to the North Koreans that would be very positive." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: Philip Shenon; George W (Pres) Bush; James A (Asst Sec) Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



550 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Explosion of Brazilian Rocket During a Test Kills at Least 16 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BELEM, Brazil, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
At least 16 people were killed and more than 20 wounded today as a result of an explosion during the test of a rocket at a military launching site used by the Brazilian government's space agency.
 Defense Minister Jose Viegas said the deaths, a major setback to Brazil's embryonic space program, occurred early this afternoon "when one of four motors" powering the 65-foot unmanned rocket ignited "for unknown reasons." 
 The explosion caused the launching pad platform to collapse, burying technicians who had been preparing the rocket for a launching scheduled to take place next week with a payload of two satellites aboard. 
Mr. Viegas said all of the dead were civilians employed by the Aerospace Technology Center in Sao Jose dos Campos. He said a final count of casualties was still pending, and the state police in Maranhao said their information indicated that 19 people had been killed.
The launching site -- at Alcantara, on a Brazilian Air Force base 475 miles east of here -- is considered one of the best in the world because it is near the equator. The centrifugal force associated with the earth's faster rotation there makes it easier to put a vehicle into orbit from there than better known bases in the United States or in Russia, with fuel economies of up to 30 percent.
Brazil has signed agreements with countries like Ukraine that want to use the site and has also courted commercial satellite companies in the United States and Europe looking for cheaper alternatives to Cape Kennedy or Kourou in French Guiana. But the Brazilian government, which also runs a successful satellite program with China, has always aspired to have its own launching vehicle to avoid dependence on other nations.
But two previous efforts, in 1997 and 1999, to launch a rocket designed and manufactured by Brazilians failed, giving Brazilian comedians an opportunity for jokes and leading to criticisms that the space program is a costly vanity for a country where millions of people go hungry each day.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 23 about a rocket explosion in Brazil referred incorrectly to the main United States launching site for manned flights and satellites. It is Cape Canaveral; the name was changed to Cape Kennedy in the 1960's but changed back in 1973.

GRAPHIC: Map of Brazil highlighting Alcantara: Alcantara is considered an ideal site for a rocket launching base. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); POLICE FORCES (53%) Space; Accidents and Safety; Explosions

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: EQUATOR (68%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UKRAINE (73%) Alcantara (Brazil); Brazil

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



551 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Some Optimism From Intel Stirs Broader Hopes 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Intel raised sales projections for the third quarter yesterday by about 5 percent, giving the stock market a momentary lift and providing new evidence for those arguing that the economy is picking up speed.
 Intel's stock rose as much as 10 percent after the announcement and all three main market gauges opened higher. But as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index flirted with its June high of 1,011, investors started selling. "There was no change in sentiment," Joseph Liro, market analyst at Stone & McCarthy in Princeton, N.J, said of the overall market. "People just took profits and knocked it down." 
 At the end of the day, Intel was up $1, or 3.8 percent, to $27.39, while the Nasdaq composite average slipped 0.7 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.8 percent and the S.& P. 500-stock index dropped 1 percent.
Andy D. Bryant, Intel's chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts that "our outlook now points to a quarter that will be better than we anticipated in July and a pleasant surprise given the business conditions we have seen the last few years." 
James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan, said: "I expected this kind of news because we economists are looking at numbers that show that economic activity is picking up to a stronger pace in the third quarter. And what is going to lead that activity is a pickup in technology spending."
But Mr. Bryant was cautious about drawing too many implications. Asked if he would declare a recovery in the technology sector, Mr. Bryant said, "We'll probably be the last to call the recovery." He said his customers had not given him a good read on what was happening to the economy. "So what you get is no clear single picture."
Finally, he warned that although the surprising strength of sales of Intel's microprocessor chips and circuit boards compelled him to make yesterday's announcement earlier than he would have liked, he was not sure yet if the sales jump was just September orders coming in early.
"I felt like we had to come out and tell people that we were actually doing real shipments, you know, real product leaving Intel at a higher rate than we expected," Mr. Bryant said. But, he added, "does the momentum we've seen in the first half of this quarter sustain itself or have we seen a pull forward of the September stuff."
Steven Milunovich, technology strategist at Merrill Lynch, said that "Intel is certainly viewed as a barometer" and that the increase in the sales projection was "fairly meaningful."
But, he added, "I would be more impressed if the companies that are selling the PC's said they saw a pickup."
Tom Thornhill, the semiconductor analyst at UBS, said there had been jumps in sales of PC's in developing markets, like India and China, and sales of computer notebooks in the major developed markets. But, he added, the important sales of desktop PC's to companies in the United States, Europe and Japan "are not all that good."
Therefore, Mr. Thornhill said, it is too early to declare a recovery, although the signs are positive.
"We are unlikely to see a material change in corporate I.T. spending until we see corporate cash flow and corporate earnings recovery," he said.
Mr. Bryant also said that demand for Intel's communications products remained soft, noting that flash card sales had dropped in the first and second quarters and that he saw no change in the current quarter.
The new range for sales in the third quarter is $7.3 billion to $7.8 billion, up from the $6.9 billion to $7.5 billion range that Intel announced in July. Taking the midpoint of the new range, sales would rise 11 percent in the third quarter, over the second quarter, and 13 percent over the third quarter of 2002. Over the last 10 years, Intel has had only two third quarters when revenue rose more than 11 percent from the previous quarter, Mr. Bryant said.
The rise in sales will also increase Intel's gross margin to 56 percent, plus or minus a couple of points, from the July projection of 54 percent, plus or minus a couple of points.
If the strength continues into the third and fourth quarter, Mr. Bryant said, "it would mean probably for the first time in years we would actually think about capacity for capacity's sake as opposed to historically what we have been doing is capacity for new technology sake."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Winters shopping for a computer in Brooklyn. Intel said sales of chips for computers were showing surprising strength, but analsyts cautioned that sales of computers themselves were not so robust. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (79%); COMPUTER CHIPS (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips; Sales; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP (INTC) ; Intel Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer; Andy D Bryant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



552 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chief Says New Force In Iraq Can Be Led by U.S. 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan suggested today that the Security Council could set up a new multinational force in Iraq that would be led by the United States as the largest troop contributor -- a common practice in joint military operations.
 In addition, Mr. Annan said continuing security concerns in Iraq were a part of a larger challenge of persuading Iraqis that the foreigners in their midst were acting in their interest and intended to turn back the reins of power quickly. 
 In remarks to reporters, he said the Security Council might "decide to transform the operation into a U.N.-mandated multinational force." But, he added, "it would also imply not just burden-sharing, but also sharing decisions and responsibility with the others." 
"If that doesn't happen," he added, "I think it's going to be very difficult to get a second resolution that will satisfy everybody."
A spokesman for Mr. Annan later said a unified command would not exclude having the leaders of other troop contingents work as part of the same headquarters unit.
It was not immediately clear if Mr. Annan's suggestion would provide common ground between the United States -- with its insistence on complete control of political, economic and particularly military operations -- and Council members like France, Germany and Russia. They remain disinclined to lend their approval to a military effort undertaken despite their fierce opposition.
But it was clear from Mr. Annan's public remarks today and a brief interview that he is certain that a new United Nations mandate is required to give the organization a clearly defined role and to allow Iraqis to have confidence that control over Iraq's future is reverting to them.
"We are focusing a lot on the force, the multinational force, and security," he said. "I think it's because of what happened. But that is only part of the answer. The other part of the answer is to move quickly to create an environment where the average Iraqi will support the operation and see that what is happening is in their interest."
He added, "That's why I keep saying, let's come up with a timetable to let them know that the occupation is really time-bound."
Paying homage to the skills of Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations coordinator on Iraq who was killed in Tuesday's bombing, he said Mr. Vieira de Mello's ability to win the trust of diverse segments of Iraqi society could not be replicated. "We have played a vital role," Mr. Annan said. "But we did because of that personality. Because of Sergio being who he is. The next time around, the mandates have to be very clear and well-defined. I cannot rely on personalities. I had only one Sergio."
The secretary general, who flew to Brazil tonight to attend the memorial service for Mr. Vieira de Mello, has been increasingly vocal in emphasizing the need for a common approach among the former Security Council opponents. He told reporters today that "a chaotic Iraq is not in anyone's interest," and "therefore we have a collective responsibility to try and deal with the situation as it exists in Iraq today."
But the bitterness, particularly on the part of France, was back in evidence on Thursday in the remarks of a French envoy to the Council. 
In interviews published and broadcast today, Dominique de Villepin, the French foreign minister, did not reject the idea of supporting a new resolution calling for international help in Iraq.
Mr. de Villepin did, however, talk of moving Iraq from a "logic of occupation" to a "political logic of the restoration of sovereignty." He called for elections for a constituent assembly, to be supervised by a new special representative of the secretary general and to take place as early as the end of the year.
It was unclear how nations like India, Pakistan and Turkey, which have balked at providing troops in the absence of a mandate, would respond to the secretary general's notion of essentially embracing the existing occupying force as part of a United Nations-mandated multinational force.
In a related development, Mexico has angered the United States by calling for a vote Monday on its moribund resolution on the security of United Nations employees overseas, diplomats here said today.
Council diplomats said today that the resolution, which was proposed in May, was put aside after the United States threatened to veto it because of its invocation of the powers of the International Criminal Court. The Bush administration opposes the court, a standing war crimes tribunal, arguing that it might be used to harass American soldiers and government officials.
But vetoing a resolution to enhance the security of United Nations staff, less than a week after 23 people died in the Baghdad bombing, would be too embarrassing, the diplomats added. Even an abstention would be hard to explain. So the United States would be left with a choice of agreeing to language it has repeatedly rejected or finding some way to get Mexico to modify the draft.
But, diplomats said, almost all the rest of the Council members have indicated support for the measure. Bulgaria, a close ally of the United States during the Iraq debates, expects to be a co-sponsor, the Bulgarian envoy, Stefan Tafrov, said today. Even Pakistan, which also has reservations about the court, has indicated its support. 
A State Department official said Secretary of State Colin L. Powell would call the Mexican foreign minister, Luis Ernesto Derbez, to push for modification of the draft resolution. "We want to make sure our concerns regarding the International Criminal Court were addressed before we could support such a resolution," the official said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Turkmen Shiites displayed a coffin in Baghdad yesterday to protest the killing on Thursday of Shiites at a mosque in northern Iraq. (Photo by Justin Lane for The New York Times) Map of Iraq highlighting Baghdad: Kofi Annan suggested a possible multinational force for Baghdad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



553 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 399 words

PERSON: Herbert Robert Silverman 

HEADLINE: H. Silverman, 91, Innovator In Financing 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Herbert R. Silverman, a prominent figure in the development of commercial finance, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
 He made his mark helping finance small businesses seeking to take part in the military procurement programs of World War II. Afterward, as a prime lender, he played a role in helping them prosper in the postwar economy. 
 Mr. Silverman was an innovator in factoring, the practice of lending money to businesses and taking over their accounts receivable. An alternative to dealing with banks, factoring was considered a staid old-line business in the 1930's.
With innovators like Mr. Silverman, it became an industry attuned to the changing ways business was done. He founded the Centaur Credit Corporation, a commercial finance company, which merged in 1945 with James Talcott Inc., one of the oldest factoring firms.
Talcott grew into one of the largest commercial lenders in the world. Mr. Silverman became its executive vice president in 1956 and president in 1958. He was chairman and chief executive from 1961 to 1973 and retired as chairman of the executive committee of the Talcott National Corporation in 1975.
Herbert Robert Silverman was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the New York University School of Business with a B.A. in 1935. He received a J.D. at St. Lawrence University in 1935. He was the founding president of the National Commercial Finance Conference from 1948 to 1952 and then chairman until 1958, and a past president of the National Conference of Commercial Receivable Companies.
He was chairman of the finance committee of Helmsley-Spear Inc. from 1974 until 1990 and taught as an adjunct professor of finance at the N.Y.U. College of Business and Public Administration.
He was a past president of the N.Y.U. Alumni Federation and founding president of the N.Y.U. Club. The university credited him as an early fund-raiser and supporter of its growth into a teaching and research institution with international recognition; it named a scholarship in his honor.
Mr. Silverman is survived by a son, Henry R., of Manhattan, the chairman of the Cendant Corporation; a daughter, Karen Mayers, of Washington; a brother, Saul S., of Palm Beach, Fla.; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren. His first wife, Roslyn Moskowitz, died in 1965, after 32 years of marriage. In 1967, he married the actress Nadia Gray, who died in 1994. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORP (68%); HELMSLEY-SPEAR INC (66%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCIAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION (82%)

TICKER: LUK (NYSE) (68%); CAR (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (63%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (63%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (63%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



554 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: Hidden Sides, Hushed Ideals Of a Civil Rights Strategist 

BYLINE:  By PAUL BERMAN; Paul Berman is the author of the book "Terror and Liberalism."

 BODY:
At the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., proclaimed his dream of a future in which everyone, no matter who, would be able to cry: "Free at last! Free at last! Thank God almighty, we are free at last!" 
 Among King's followers, no one doubted what kind of freedom he had in mind. It was freedom from racist laws and the social customs of Jim Crow segregation -- a legal and social freedom for millions of black Americans who, in the past, had never experienced anything of the sort. 
 But then something odd and unpredicted took place. Once the issue of freedom had been successfully raised, all kinds of people, black and nonblack, began to cast an inquisitive eye on laws and customs that had nothing to do with racism or Jim Crow, and began to identify other sorts of oppressions. The subsequent outpouring of fresh understandings and novel insights about rights and freedom -- for gays, women, the disabled and more -- has dominated American thinking for 40 years now, which is quite a long time. And among those many fresh understandings and insights has come a new retrospective understanding of the 1963 march itself. 
The chief organizer of the Washington march was Bayard Rustin, who was duly applauded at the time for the efficiency of his labors. And yet, Rustin, who died in 1987 at 75, played a much larger role in organizing both the march and the wider civil rights movement than most people ever suspectedat the time. Two new books, one a biography and the other a collection of Rustin's papers, now turn a brighter light on his life and his role, explaining how his homosexuality forced his contribution to be obscured.
Rustin was a Quaker and a pacifist, Gandhi style -- which meant being a fighter, though without violence. By 1963, Rustin had been fighting a long time. In the 1940's, he worked as an assistant to A. Philip Randolph, the Harlem-based labor leader, and helped organize a campaign against racial discrimination in war-related jobs -- a successful campaign, all in all, that played a role in integrating the armed forces, eventually. But for all his success at Randolph's side, Rustin did not glide from triumph to triumph. 
In World War II he refused the draft, and in his pacifist zeal, refused even to accept a conscientious-objector status. Instead, he spent 28 months in federal prisons, a gruesome experience -- though even there, unstoppable, he campaigned to end racial segregation in the prison dining hall. Released from jail, he went to work for a tiny pacifist organization in New York, which sent him around the country during the late 1940's and early 50's to agitate against war, against nuclear arms, against European imperialism in Africa and, always, against Jim Crow. He was arrested frequently. He was beaten. He served 28 days on a North Carolina chain gang. 
But then, in December 1955, the black citizens of Montgomery, Ala., led by Dr. King, mounted a boycott of the city buses in protest against the Jim Crow seating rules. King was brilliant, and yet he was only 26 and did not always know what to do. But Bayard Rustin did. He went to Montgomery, met King, visited his home -- and was dismayed to discover guns in the living room. Rustin spoke. King listened. Rustin was less than popular among some of the other leaders of the Montgomery boycott -- was it his phony British accent? his monarchical air? -- but King and the others dutifully put away their guns and agreed to be arrested in a Gandhian spirit of nonviolence and spiritual superiority, which was Rustin's advice, exactly. 
Rustin proposed a strategy of reaching out to black churches elsewhere in the South, to broaden the boycott's base of support. And he offered King a larger coalition still, which was organized by Randolph and the handful of New York pacifists. They called on friends and allies in the labor movement, on good-hearted politicians, on singers and actors and on wealthy liberals with money to donate. And so, the young King, from his pulpit in Alabama, found himself soon enough at the head of a fledgling national coalition. And the coalition grew until, by 1963, with 250,000 people attending the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, it proved to be a national power. 
King was the leader of that gigantic coalition. But Rustin was the principal strategist. 
Yet there was the question of Rustin's homosexuality, and his sometimes desperate promiscuity. On a couple of occasions he was arrested in parks, and in Pasadena, Calif., in 1953, for having sex with two men in a parked car, an incident that sent him back to jail for 60 days. The Pasadena arrest devastated his political career. Even his closest friends and comrades, some of them, turned on him with a real fury. That was why, during the Montgomery boycott, Rustin had to operate virtually as a secret agent, whispering his advice to King, and why, in Washington in 1963, he had to conceal the full extent of his leadership. He was all too vulnerable to political attacks, and there was nothing he could do about it.
John D'Emilio, in his new biography, "Lost Prophet: The Life and Times of Bayard Rustin" (Free Press), has provided the fullest description so far of the awful depth of Rustin's agony over these matters. It is heartbreaking to read about this -- heartbreaking to recall that, in the 1950's and 60's, the question of sexual orientation could not even be broached in public except as an accusation. But today is a different age. And why is that?
It is because the civil rights campaign, in its glorious fecundity, did give birth to many newer inspirations, one of which turned out to be the modern movement for gay rights. The gay movement began to gather popular support in 1969, six years after the Washington march, and advanced somewhat slowly after that. Yet it did advance, and continues to advance, even in the conservative realms of the Supreme Court, which just this year struck down a Texas sodomy law -- a huge event in the history of gay rights.
Mr. D'Emilio's book shows, in its frank and sympathetic discussion of Rustin's homosexuality, just how great the progress has been. The same forward step can be seen in the volume of Rustin's writings and interviews, "A Time on Two Crosses: The Collected Writings of Bayard Rustin" (Cleis Press), that has been assembled by Devon W. Carbado and Donald Weise. Here you can read the appreciative comments that Rustin himself began to make, during his last years in the 1980's, on the gay movement.
And so, in the new atmosphere today, Americans are finally able to see Rustin as he was -- see him in his sexuality and in his sufferings, and see, as well, the monumental scale of his achievement. But does this mean that now, at last, the Washington march can be understood in full, with no more hidden aspects? The answer must be no, not really. 
Thanks to the gay movement and to scholars like Mr. D'Emilio, it is possible today to speak about homosexuality with cool frankness. But it is not so easy to talk about a very different but equally pertinent theme, which is American socialism. Rustin was, after all, more than a pacifist. 
His mentor A. Philip Randolph was one of the grand old men of American socialism, and Rustin followed in Randolph's footsteps, though with a Christian style of his own. Rustin as a young man briefly enrolled in the Young Communist League, but then withdrew and repudiated the Communist movement. Socialism, for both Rustin and Randolph, was a democratic idea, therefore an anti-Communist idea. It was an idea that had bubbled up from the the labor movement and had acquired its shape in the not-quite-Marxist political tradition of Eugene V. Debs. Rustin taught King some aspects of that idea -- though King, loyal to his own Baptist background, kept away from the Old Left style that clung so naturally to Randolph and Rustin.
Even so, socialism figured as one element of the 1963 march, and not a small one, either. Why, after all, did the march call for "jobs" as well as "freedom"? The word jobs might sound today like political boilerplate, filling space and meaning nothing. But the word said, in effect, that securing rights was only half the program -- that America's economy needed to be reorganized as well. In the first years after the march, when some of the main legislative goals of the civil rights movement congealed into federal law, Rustin came up with the idea, which he attributed to Randolph, of steering their carefully constructed national coalition in a new direction, toward the economic reorganization of society. 
Rustin wrote an essay touching on this theme, "From Protest to Politics," which is included in the collection of his writings. He also wrote a sophisticated political program called "A Freedom Budget for All Americans," which unfortunately is not included. 
But nothing came of the Freedom Budget. The giant civil rights coalition, instead of taking up the economic issue, fell into a thousand pieces in the later 1960's and 70's. Some people plunged into the new "identity" movements of those years. Others stayed loyal to the trade unions and were duly accused of having become "conservative." And the coalition was no more. 
As for Rustin, he chose to be a union man under those circumstances, as could have been predicted. He spent the rest of his life advancing the legacy of Randolph in the AFL-CIO and working for the American Federation of Teachers -- a job that caused him to be vilified in some quarters as a traitor to the left. Rustin was not a traitor, though -- even if his writings show that from time to time he grew a little ornery and declined to grant even the slightest merit to his critics on the left. The problem was just that, by the 1970's, Rustin's language of economic democracy had become hard for other people to understand, even people on the left, which was precisely his complaint about them. 
Today it can be said with only slight exaggeration that homosexuality has become a perfectly proper topic for public conversation, even with schoolchildren, while the very concept of a redistribution of wealth in America has somehow morphed into the great unmentionable. 
Talk about ironies in the life of Bayard Rustin! 
For even now, when the most painful of Rustin's secrets have come into the open, some last aspect of the March on Washington remains, in spite of everything, unremembered and undiscussed. It is the aspect that in 1963 went under the slogan "Jobs," which meant economic equality for all Americans -- which is what people like Randolph and Rustin used to call, in an antique rhetoric that hardly anyone understands today, "socialism."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bayard Rustin, above, in a moment of triumph at the August 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. Below, with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., in 1956. (Photo by Corbis/Bettmann); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B7); Bayard Rustin, grand strategist of the civil rights movement and the March on Washington, at a nonviolence workshop in New York in 1964, top; above, a 1963 civil rights protest at a union building site in Brooklyn. (Photo by United Press International); (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LITERATURE (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); WORLD WAR II (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PRISONS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) BLACKS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; HOMOSEXUALITY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%) RUSTIN, BAYARD (1910-87); D'EMILIO, JOHN; CARBADO, DEVON; WEISE, DONALD; BERMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (65%)

TITLE: LOST PROPHET: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF BAYARD RUSTIN (BOOK); TIME ON TWO CROSSES (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



555 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Groups Gather to Commemorate March on Washington 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Under a thematic banner of jobs and justice, a coalition of groups dedicated to civil, human and economic rights have converged here this weekend to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the March on Washington, the mass protest that helped bring about some of the most critical social legislation in the nation's history.
 More than merely a respectful nod to the past, the observances planned in coming days are an effort to re-energize activism around issues that organizers say are as pressing today as they were in 1963. Planners say the weekend's activities are the beginning of a 15-month mobilization to "redeem the heart and soul of America" before next November's presidential election. 
 "My father talked about the eradication of poverty, racism, militarism and violence," said Martin Luther King III, president and C.E.O. of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and son of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whose "I Have a Dream" speech became the galvanizing high point of the march on Aug. 28, 1963. "Those issues are still very much in our midst." 
Commemorative events organized by the coalition began today with a dedication by the National Park Service of an engraving on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial that marks the spot where Dr. King delivered the speech. Speaking from a podium next to the inscription before a few hundred spectators, Coretta Scott King, wife of the slain leader, said the tribute "adds a sense of wholeness to the site."
Representative John Lewis of Georgia, who was the youngest speaker in the original march and is the only one of the main speakers that day still living, dissolved into tears as the inscription commemorating the speech was unveiled.
Doris and James Burrell, of Washington, attended the afternoon ceremony. Mr. Burrell, 73, was at the 1963 march. But Mrs. Burrell, 72, was not because she was pregnant. She said attending the ceremony today, where parts of Dr. King's speech were played over the loudspeaker, almost made up for her missing the original. 
"So much of our history of black people has been lost," she said. "This means this man, this generation, this part of our history will not be lost." 
The activities, which include prayer vigils and teach-ins, will culminate with a march and rally on Saturday afternoon. Organizers hope the national activities will generate enough momentum to build support for several events around the country, the first of which is scheduled for Thursday in Cincinnati, where longstanding racial tensions have bubbled to the surface in recent years over accusations of police brutality and inequitable treatment of blacks. 
"We march recognizing that we can no longer do a one-day demonstration," said the Rev. Walter E. Fauntroy, who directed past anniversary marches in 1983 and 1993. Among the most important activities planned between now and Election Day, he said, will be nationwide voter registration drives, many of which will be aimed at young people. 
Described by organizers as an attempt to bring together "the sit-in generation and the hip-hop generation," the weekend events include a spoken-word poetry jam, and the inclusion of representatives from several youth-oriented groups among the list of speakers on Saturday.
The coalition's main sponsors include traditional civil rights organizations like the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the National Council of Negro Women, as well as longtime allies such as labor unions and women's rights groups. Other major players, however, such as the Arab American Institute and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, show the expanding breadth of the civil rights movement. 
In past years, some Jewish groups, who gave crucial support to the movement in 1963, opposed the inclusion of Arab-American groups. Some religious groups protested adding gay and lesbian organizations as speakers. Common concerns over issues like racial profiling and hate crimes, representatives of the groups said this week, are helping to push some differences to the side. 
"This is the first one of these marches that we have entered as truly full partners," said James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute. "This tree has grown and now has many branches. This weekend provides an opportunity for the branches to come together, and back to the roots, to refocus the vision."
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force is organizing several busloads of people to come to march from New York, Pennsylvania, Kentucky and North Carolina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HISTORY (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); RIOTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Blacks; Demonstrations and Riots; Monuments and Memorials; Lincoln Memorial (Washington, DC)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%) National Park Service

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); JOHN LEWIS (57%) Lynette Clemetson; Martin Luther Jr (1929-68) King

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



556 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: India Tries to Contain Tempest Over Soft Drink Safety 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
There have been few such long-winded efforts to say that Coke is still it. 
 Throughout the capital's bustling INA market, which sells everything from Oreo cookies made in China to "Hot Eats" of North India, soft drink vendors had posted fliers this week proclaiming that "Coca-Cola refreshes you with world-class and safe products in India." 
 The fliers, spread across the country as well, said Coke had tested its sodas for pesticide parts per billion, an exercise as arduous as "tracing one person out of India's whole population." They even reassured customers that Coca-Cola India's 5,000 employees actually consume the soft drink they produce. 
Why the earnest verbiage in place of catchy jingles? 
Earlier this month, a respected nongovernmental group here, the Center for Science and Environment, released a report saying tests on the 12 leading soft drink brands had revealed unsafe levels of pesticides in all of them. 
As it turned out, all 12 brands were owned by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, which entered the Indian soft drink market in the early 1990's and conquered it, scooping up rival domestic brands along the way. Their sales promptly plunged after the center's report was published.
Much of the air drained out of the furor on Thursday when the Minister of Health and Family Welfare announced that government tests on 12 samples had not found unsafe levels of pesticides. 
The soft drink giants -- bitter rivals who had joined force in mutual self-interest -- pronounced themselves vindicated, saying the government called their products "perfectly safe." A joint statement called the government announcement "an enormous step in restoring consumer confidence" in their products. 
The two companies responded to lists of specific questions with their press statements. 
But the director of the Center for Science and Environment, Sunita Narain, said she was at a loss to explain the discrepancy. "Both results cannot be right," she said. 
A lot is at stake. The two companies sell billions of soft drinks a year to Indians, and wage pitched battles -- with Bollywoodstars doing the pitching -- for market share.
The center's report prompted outrage, not least because it said Coke and Pepsi products sold in the United States did not contain similar pollutants. Parliament promptly banned the drinks in its cafeteria. Protesters smashed them. Consumers shunned them. Shops here and in much of the country, report declines in soft drink sales ranging from 10 to 75 percent. 
Of course, both companies are symbols of globalization. Antiwar protesters have attacked their facilities, and both have faced complaints that their plants are depriving people in the southern state of Kerala of drinking water. 
But there have been no suggestions in India that the center's findings were manipulated for political reasons. Even in Kerala, the government has edged toward siding with Coke and Pepsi, discouraging protest against them and saying the jobs they provide are too important. 
The tempest has left its mark. After the report exposed a confusing and ultimately porous regulatory framework that did nothing to regulate the quality of water in soft drinks, the health minister, Sushma Swaraj, said the government would consider imposing European Union standards on the water in soft drinks. 
For two weeks, a quiet chorus had been murmuring that the problem was not with multinationals, but with the government that failed to regulate them. Coke and Pepsi, people here say, could not allow pesticides in sodas sold in Europe or the United States because governments there would not let them. 
Ms. Narain said she hoped that the debate would also raise awareness of India's lack of standards for potable water, and the absence of a pesticide policy in a country heavily dependent on agriculture. 
If pesticides were indeed present in soft drinks, it would probably be because they had soaked into the groundwater used to make them. 
An earlier study by the center of 30 bottled water samples -- including some owned by Coke and Pepsi -- found that most of them had unsafe pesticide levels, prompting the government to adopt the European Union's standard for bottled water, effective Jan. 1. 
The center investigates and ranks Indian industry on issues related to the environment and health. Ms. Narain said she had never before taken on multinationals in such a direct confrontation, and did not set out to this time. Only after her team began testing the country's most popular sodas did they realize, she said, that all of them, whether Thums Up or Mirinda Lemon, were owned by Coke or Pepsi. 
Such consolidation was one of the fears when India embarked on liberalization in 1991, slowly opening its economy to the outside world. It remains a work in progress, and one still marked by political ambivalence, evident now in the debate over new rules allowing for greater foreign ownership of the media and other industries.
But despite the revelation that two foreign companies had cornered the soft drink market, despite the accusation -- now rebuffed by the health ministry -- that they contained unsafe pesticide levels, no one seriously suggested that Coke or Pepsi be ejected from the country, as Coke was in 1977 for refusing to allow its secret syrup to be made in India. It took 16 years for Coke to begin importing to India again, and another four for it to begin manufacturing. 
The battle from now on may be over what sort of standards to adopt, and here India may find itself caught between Europe and the United States. The United States, which requires carbonated beverages to meet the same standards as bottled water, relies largely on WorldHealth Organization guidelines, which are significantly less stringent than those set in the European Union.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indian Democratic Party members protested against Coca-Cola in New Delhi on Thursday, though government tests countered an environmental group's report that Coke and other drinks had unsafe pesticide levels. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (92%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (91%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SOFT DRINK MFG (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (74%); BRANDING (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); BEVERAGE MFG (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (69%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RIOTS (60%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Consumer Protection; Pesticides; Sales; Demonstrations and Riots; Tests and Testing; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Water

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (84%); PEPSICO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Coca-Cola Co; Pepsico Inc; Center for Science and Environment (India); European Union

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (84%); PEP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%)

PERSON: Amy Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) NORTH INDIA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%) India

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



557 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Human Rights Retreat 

 BODY:
Vicente Fox's election as Mexico's president three years ago was a euphoric moment, signaling the end of seven decades of highhanded one-party rule. With expectations so high, some disappointment was inevitable. Yet few would have predicted the disillusionment that has recently set in, leading to an abysmal showing by Mr. Fox's party in this summer's midterm elections. Mr. Fox has been hurt by circumstances beyond his power, like opposition control of Congress, America's anemic economy and Washington's post-9/11 immigration fears. Harder to excuse is his own diminished effort to follow through on crucially needed reforms. A telling example is in the area of human rights. 
 Establishing accountability and the rule of law was one of Mr. Fox's campaign themes. Because his party had never before held national office, he was free of obligations to shield former officials from answering for the serious human rights abuses that have marred recent Mexican history. These include systematic police torture, politically motivated disappearances and an army massacre of student protesters before the 1968 Mexico City Olympics. 
 Mr. Fox began boldly, opening up years of secret police files and appointing a special prosecutor to investigate human rights violators. He also signed a pioneering freedom of information law. Mr. Fox's first foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, turned Mexico into a champion of international human rights, challenging the behavior of tyrants it had long excused, like Fidel Castro. 
The problem has been follow-through. The truth commission Mr. Fox promised has yet to be created. The special prosecutor has been denied crucial files. The federal government has so far made minimal efforts to investigate the deaths of some 300 women, and the disappearances of scores of others, in the border city of Ciudad Juarez over the past decade. Mr. Castaneda's successor at the foreign ministry, Luis Ernesto Derbez, has been far more muted on human rights issues, abolishing the post of deputy foreign minister for human rights and dismissing its highly regarded incumbent, Mariclaire Acosta.
Playing down human rights may please some in the former ruling party, on whose congressional votes Mr. Fox often depends. Yet in the longer run it undermines him politically by feeding growing disillusionment. If Mexico's people are to have a decent chance to prosper in the 21st century, they badly need the far-reaching economic, political and legal changes he promised but has yet to deliver. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); TORTURE (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); OLYMPICS (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (51%) Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; Editorials

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



558 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives of Two Minds On Backing Schwarzenegger 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Hoping to unite their party around a single strong candidate, some prominent conservative Republicans endorsed Arnold Schwarzenegger for governor today and urged his principal Republican rivals to withdraw from the race.
 The Lincoln Club of Orange County, which helped underwrite the campaign to put the recall of Gov. Gray Davis on the ballot, said Mr. Schwarzenegger had the best chance of reclaiming the governor's office for Republicans. 
 In other signs that the party was trying to coalesce around the actor, a conservative Republican member of the State Assembly, Doug LaMalfa, endorsed Mr. Schwarzenegger, and Rush Limbaugh, initially hostile to the actor's candidacy, softened his stance and spoke approvingly of his antitax statements this week. 
But despite such movement, many other California conservatives remain queasy about his moderate-to-liberal views on social issues, which match the opinions of a majority of Californians but offend many die-hard Republicans.
Take Dan Davidson, the senior pastor of the Bethel Baptist Church in Santa Ana. He calls himself a conservative Republican and very much wants to see Mr. Davis removed from office.
But Dr. Davidson says he will not support Mr. Schwarzenegger because of what he considers his unacceptably liberal views on social issues, particularly his stance in favor of abortion rights and his tolerance for gay unions and adoption. Mr. Schwarzenegger has also said he supports some gun controls.
"On moral issues, I don't think he's any better than Davis," Dr. Davidson said. "I can't bring myself to vote for someone who is unabashedly pro-gay." 
Some conservatives here also cast a suspicious eye on Mr. Schwarzenegger's ties to what they consider the liberal elite of Hollywood, on the possible influence of his wife, Maria Shriver, a member of the Kennedy family, and on his team of advisers, many of whom served under the moderate former Republican governor Pete Wilson. 
Whether many of these voters can be brought around could turn out to critical to Mr. Schwarzenegger's chances.
Analysts say that the conservatives' customary ideological rigidity -- some call it Republican cannibalism -- is the reason Democrats have won every important statewide election since 1994.
The state Republican party's conventions tend to be bitterly tribal affairs, with the varying strains of the party vying for supremacy. Hard-line conservatives have been winning these battles -- and little else -- for the past decade.
The recall race features a two-part ballot, with voters first deciding whether to recall Governor Davis, and then choosing a replacement from among 135 candidates. Anything can happen, but many mainstream Republicans fear that with four credible Republican candidates in the race, it is possible that enough conservatives could withhold their support from Mr. Schwarzenegger to throw the election to Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, the only prominent Democrat in the contest, if Mr. Davis is recalled.
So while many conservatives express qualms about Mr. Schwarzenegger, others -- as well as party moderates and some Republicans close to the Bush White House -- sense a chance to win in a freakish and foreshortened race for governor and are willing to look past his moderate social views and vague fiscal position. 
"Arnold's commitment to reduced taxes, fiscal restraint and rebuilding California's economy through a revitalized business community reflect the Lincoln Club's conservative philosophy," Tracy K. Price, the group's president, said today. He called on Bill Simon, State Senator Tom McClintock and Peter Ueberroth to withdraw from the race. 
"They're all in single digits with six weeks to go," he said. "It's not our intention to throw them under the bus, but we think this is time to rally behind one candidate and we think Arnold can win."
Spokesmen for all three candidates said they had no intention of dropping out.
K. B. Forbes, spokesman for one of them, Bill Simon Jr., the unsuccessful Republican candidate for governor last November, said that the Lincoln Club was well regarded, but that it was "one club in one county and there are many different organizations endorsing candidates."
Mr. Simon is running hard to the right of Mr. Schwarzenegger, baiting him on his refusal to rule out tax increases and berating him for lacking specific plans for solving the state's budget problems. 
And he has his fervent backers. Warene Wall, a retired telecommunications executive in San Diego, said she was supporting Mr. Simon as both a true conservative and the one candidate in the race whose views on taxes and spending were well known from his campaign last year.
"I don't think there's anything conservative about Arnold," Mrs. Wall said. "When he finally emerged this week and gave his speech, his delivery was excellent but he gave us no substance. I'm concerned he'll compromise with the Democrats rather than hold the line on spending."
Mr. Schwarzenegger may have helped himself with conservatives on Wednesday when he made a strong antitax pitch at his first news conference, complaining that Californians were taxed from the moment they awoke until they went to bed at night.
He repeated his antitax themes in a stroll today in Huntington Beach. "We have to stop this government from overspending, overtaxing and overregulating," he said, drawing an instant crowd and loud cheers. "That's going to go a long way toward winning back some conservative support," said Roger Hedgecock, the former Republican mayor of San Diego who now has a conservative radio talk show there. He said some of his callers said they feared that on social issues Mr. Schwarzenegger "just seems to be another Hollywood liberal."
However, Mr. Hedgecock continued, many callers appear willing to overlook those views for a chance to win back the governorship. "I detect a huge yearning to see the Republicans win this election and not be divided among three, four, five candidates," he said. "There's a great fear of winding up worse than we were before."
Democrats hold a decided edge over Republicans in party registration in California, roughly 44 percent to 35 percent, with another 15 percent declining to state a party affiliation. As a result, any candidate calling himself a Republican must reach out to Democrats or independents to have any hope of winning a statewide election.
In most cases, however, a Republican first has to survive the primary process, which brings out the most committed ideological conservatives. Richard Riordan, the moderate Republican former mayor of Los Angeles, learned that lesson in last year's gubernatorial primary, when he was badly defeated by Mr. Simon.
This contest is different. There is no primary, and thus no need to cater to the far reaches of the political spectrum. "This is the best thing that ever happened to moderate Republicans," said Samuel Popkin, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego. "It provides the chance to become governor without having to survive a Republican primary."
Mr. Schwarzenegger's advisers say that despite opposition from a number of outspoken religious and fiscal conservative leaders, Mr. Schwarzenegger is broadly supported by conservatives.
"The notion is just patently wrong that we're not doing well among conservative voters," said George Gorton, one of Mr. Schwarzenegger's chief strategists. "We're doing well among conservatives."
Joel Fox, former president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which sponsored the tax-cutting Proposition 13 in 1978, is now advising Mr. Schwarzenegger on tax and budget issues. He said that even if Mr. Schwarzenegger did not completely satisfy fiscal conservatives by signing a no-new-taxes pledge, they would support him in the end.
"Rank and file conservatives want a winner," Mr. Fox said.
But not all conservatives are willing to compromise their beliefs. Dr. Davidson of the Bethel Baptist Church said that among other points, he was concerned by Mr. Schwarzenegger's violent movie persona.
"I just don't believe he's a good role model," he said. He added that he did not think Mr. Schwarzenegger could be married to a member of the Kennedy family and be a conservative on social issues. He said resignedly, "I know I can't expect to get Jerry Falwell as governor."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Davidson, a pastor in Santa Ana, Calif., calls Arnold Schwarzenegger unacceptably liberal on social issues. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); GUN CONTROL (65%); ABORTION (51%) Elections; Governors (US); Recall (Elections); Endorsements

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%); DOUG LAMALFA (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%) John M Broder; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Gray (Gov) Davis

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; California

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



559 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Bush Takes Aim at Hamas, Ordering Assets Frozen
President Bush ordered the Treasury Department to block and freeze the assets of six top leaders of the militant Palestinian group Hamas and five charities that administration officials said help finance the organization. It is the first time that the United States has tried to shut down the political wing that provides social services and relief assistance to Palestinians. A1

Thousands of enraged Palestinians at the funeral of a slain Hamas official vowed to take sweeping revenge against Israel, which signaled that it would continue to hunt down the leaders of militant groups. In Gaza City, a crowd of Palestinians filled the streets and chanted promises of martyrdom for suicide bombers. A6

Annan Proposes Iraq Force
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, suggested that the Security Council could create a new multinational force in Iraq that would be headed by the United States as the largest troop contributor -- a common practice in joint military operations. A2

United Nations officials paid their final respects to Sergio Vieira de Mello, who headed their mission in Iraq, as his body was flown out of the country. In a further sign of instability, the authorities said an American soldier had been shot and killed in the southern town of Hilla. A2

U.S. Monitoring Qaeda Groups
American law enforcement officials are monitoring the activities of at least six groups in the United States that they suspect are linked to the terrorist network Al Qaeda. A1

Damage Report from Nigeria
Battles between rival ethnic militias killed 100 people and injured another 1,000 in Nigeria's volatile southern oil port of Warri. Emmanuel Ijewere, president of the Nigerian Red Cross, said the situation had calmed after authorities flooded the city with troops and police officers. A5

Coke Works to Reassure India
Conflicting reports about the levels of pesticides in the 12 leading soft drinks in India has led to declines in sales ranging from 10 to 75 percent. All of the brands turned out to be owned by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, and Coke has responded with a campaign intended to reassure Indian consumers its products are safe. A3

Relations With North Korea
The Bush administration will not offer any specific rewards to North Korea to abandon its nuclear arms program but will not stop other countries from making such offers. The principal State Department negotiator will probably have informal one-on-one conversations with his North Korean counterpart during a six-nation meeting next week in Beijing. A5

Fatal Explosion in Brazil
At least 16 people were killed and more than 20 injured as a result of an explosion during the test of a rocket at a military launch site used by the Brazilian government's space agency. One of the motors powering the rocket ignited, causing the launch pad platform to collapse. A4

NATIONAL A7-10, 14

Conservatives Back Actor In California Recall Election
Some prominent conservative Republicans endorsed Arnold Schwarzenegger for governor and urged his principal Republican rivals to withdraw from the race, but many others remain queasy about his moderate-to-liberal views on social issues. A1

Some Democratic leaders in California and across the country, pessimistic about Gov. Gray Davis's chances to survive a recall election, are beginning to view Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante as the party's only hope for keeping the Republicans from taking control of the governorship. A8

Chain of Events in Blackout
When an electrical transmission line sagged into a tree just outside Cleveland at 3:32 p.m. on August 14, the events that would become the greatest blackout in North American history began their furious avalanche, according to the most extensive analysis yet of the catastrophe. A1

Chief Justice Is Suspended
Chief Justice Roy Moore of Alabamawas suspended from the bench by the Court of the Judiciary of Alabama for defying a federal court order to remove a 5,280-pound Ten Commandments monument he installed in the State Supreme Court. A7

Texas Governor Pardons 35
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas day pardoned 35 people, 31 of them black, who were arrested in 1999 in a drug sting based solely on the word of an undercover agent who has since been indicted for perjury. A7

Revisiting King's Message
Under a thematic banner of jobs and justice, a broad coalition of groups dedicated to civil, human and economic rights have converged in Washington to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the March on Washington, the seminal mass protest that helped bring about some of the most critical social legislation in the nation's history. A7

Oil Spill Damages Overturned
A three-judge federal appeals court panel has ordered a court in Alaska to reconsider a multibillion-dollar punitive damages award against the Exxon Mobil Corporation for the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989. A7

Security Official to Lead Navy
The White House announced that the No. 2 official at the Department of Homeland Security, Deputy Secretary Gordon England, would return to his previous job as Navy secretary, only seven months after he was confirmed to the domestic security post. A8

Fighting Corruption Overseas
Federal officials have developed a plan to seize financial assets laundered into the United States by foreign leaders whom they suspect of public corruption, with the jailed former president of Nicaragua as the first target. A9

Episcopalians Withhold Money
Several Episcopal parishes and dioceses nationwide that opposed confirming the electionof denomination's first openly gay bishop are now withholding donations to church leaders in protest. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

No Appeal of Parole Of Former Radical
The transcript of the parole hearing of Kathy Boudin, the former militant who took part in a robbery 20 years ago that left 3 people dead, was released as state officials determined that there was no legal ground for a hearing to reconsider the decision to grant her parole. The determination cleared the way for Ms. Boudin to leave prison perhaps as early as next week, an official said. B1

Pushing for Stricter Gun Laws
In the wake of the shooting last month of Councilman James E. Davis, the City Council is pushing ahead with several changes in New York City's gun control laws that would make the laws, already among the toughest in the nation, more restrictive. B1

Comic Wins Against Fox
A federal judge in Manhattan rejected a request from Fox News for an injunction to block the satirist Al Franken from using the words "fair and balanced" on the cover of his book, calling the motion "wholly without merit, both factually and legally." B1

Relief for a Queens Family
Marilyn Manuel's family in Queens was told she was among the 23 people killed in the bombing of the United Nations compound in Baghdad. But, early Thursday morning, after a memorial service for her, Ms. Manuel called her family from a hospital in the Baghdad area to say she was all right. B1

2 Killed in Boating Accident
Two people were killed when the boat on which they were guests slammed into a stone jetty off the North Fork of Long Island the authorities said. The Suffolk County district attorney is reviewing the case and may file charges, the police said. B4

Religion Journal B5

ARTS & IDEAS B7-15

SPORTS D1-7

Rematch Denied
Because of illness, both Funny Cide and Empire Maker were pulled from the Travers Stakes by their trainers in an anti-climactic finish to what was supposed to be a rematch between the two horses. Empire Maker deprived Funny Cide of the Triple Crown in the Belmont Stakes earlier this year. D2

Historical Medal
Paul Hamm, the United States Gymnastics Team's all-around champion the last two years, scored a 9.775 on the high bar to in the 2001 world Gymnastics championships, to win the first ever all-around gold medal for the United States men. D4

OBITUARIES B16

Cedric Price
One of the most influential British architects of the 20th century he was 68. B16

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Experts Battle Unusual Virus
As the computer virus named Sobig.F swamped the Internet, security experts tried to stop an electronic time bomb: Sobig carried an attachment that could have instructed infected computers to communicate with 20 host PC's that were planted with a mystery program. A1

Freddie Mac Chief Forced Out
Federal regulators forced the board of Freddie Mac to agree to remove its chief executive, Gregory Parseghian, to assuage concerns about his involvement in an accounting scandal at the company. C1

Big Discounts on Luxury Cars
The luxury car market is normally a haven for profits and prestige, but this summer, incentives are soaring on almost every manner of luxury vehicle, whether it is from Europe, Japan or Detroit. C1

Spinoff From Abbott
The chief executive of Abbott Laboratories, the drug maker that has been adjusting its product mix for years, announced that he would soon spin off the company's hospital supplies business to shareholders. C1

Stocks Up for the Week
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 74.81 points, to 9,348.87, 27.18 points higher than last week's close. The Nasdaq composite index fell 12.23 points, to 1,765.32, 63.31 points above last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Fouling the air; Mexico's human rights retreat; an onslaught of computer viruses; Verlyn Klinkenborg on a garden of weeds.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B15
Crossword B11
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DEATHS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); SHOOTINGS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); SOFT DRINKS (62%); SPACE INDUSTRY (61%); PESTICIDES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (65%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (93%); NIGERIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



560 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Northwest: Washington: Bush Stumps For Policies 

BYLINE:  By Richard W. Stevenson (NYT)

 BODY:
 President Bush made a campaign-style swing through the state, talking up his environmental and economic policies and tapping supporters for $1.4 million at a fund-raiser. 
Stopping at the Ice Harbor Lock and Dam on the Snake River, Mr. Bush said his approach to balancing efforts to promote a resurgence in the salmon population with the need to maintain the hydroelectric dams that provide water to farmers and power to the region was working well. He flew on to Seattle, where he said his tax cuts, plus his push for more trade and his plan to allow more logging, should help the state's ailing economy. Richard W. Stevenson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Environment

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003 



561 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: Recalling the Days of Knights and Elks 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
TO many in New York, the former Board of Education headquarters at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn is emblematic of a bloated bureaucracy. But to architectural historians, the Italian Renaissance-style building, designed by the renowned firm of McKim, Mead & White, represents a special period of real estate optimism in the 1920's when fraternal lodges thought they could join the building boom and secure their financial futures.
 For almost every one of them -- the Elks, the Masons, the Knights of Columbus and just about any group with many dues-paying members -- the rosy projections ended in less than a generation. But the remnants of their dreams remain part of the city streetscape. 
 In the case of Lodge 22 of the Benevolent Protective Order of Elks, which built the 13-story 110 Livingston Street in 1928 at Boerum Place, the sojourn in the building lasted less than a decade, until 1936, when the group sold it to New York City for new, centralized Board of Education offices. 
For the Masons and their 17-story Level Club, designed in 1926 for a site behind the Ansonia Hotel on West 73rd Street just west of Broadway, the dream lasted four years. The club went into foreclosure in 1930, became a hotel in 1936 and was converted to apartments in the 1980's.
For the Knights of Pythias and its show-stopping 1926 Pythian Temple at 135 West 70th Street -- with its colorful midblock facade of movie-set Egyptian forms and seated Pharaonic figures -- it lasted until the 1950's, when the building was sold to a school. (It too was converted to apartments in the 80's.)
The seeds for such projects were sown in the 1890's, when the advent of high-rise construction changed the economic landscape for real estate developers,permitting them to use the economics of concentration for both commercial and residential buildings. Other owners gradually followed. High-rise hospitals began appearing around 1900, and a few social clubs and fraternal organizations built tall structures in the 1910's, like the 19- and 20-story lodge and office complex that the Masons built in two parts in 1909 and 1912 at 23rd Street and Sixth Avenue.
But the boom years of the 1920's accelerated the pace of such projects, including some that seemed financially doubtful. One of the first was the Fraternities Club, designed in 1922 and completed in 1924 at the southeast corner of 38th Street and Madison Avenue. An adjunct of the Allerton Hotel chain, the 38th Street building was put up for members of college Greek-letter organizations. 
Designed by Murgatroyd & Ogden in a medieval Italian style, the 17-story building had meeting rooms for 16 college fraternities, like Delta Phi and Kappa Alpha, along with 560 guest rooms. In effect, it was really a very specialized hotel. The Cornell Club, a tenant, had an expansive set of rooms on the 12th and 13th floors, with a double-height lounge and murals of the Ithaca, N.Y., landscape.
The Clergy Club was also a tenant. Thus, in 1930 some of the most prominent ministers in the city were embarrassed -- or perhaps only inconvenienced -- to find that prohibition agents had masqueraded as college men for several weeks and then conducted a raid at the building. They confiscated 101 bottles of liquor, with a result that the entire building was threatened with closure, although it is not clear whether that happened. 
In 1923, 42 Manhattan and Bronx councils of the Knights of Columbus -- the fraternal order for Roman Catholic men -- began raising $3 million for a 15-story building; it was completed in 1927 at the southeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 51st Street. Designed by Edward F. Fanning, the building had an auditorium for 1,800, council rooms, restaurants and athletic facilities like a running track atop the building. 
Cardinal Patrick Hayes blessed the cornerstone in 1925, when 10,000 members, most wearing straw hats, blue serge coats and white flannel trousers, paraded from 76th Street and Central Park West to the site. The finished building had the names of Marquette, La Salle, Columbus and other Catholics important in the history of the country inscribed on its facade. 
The Knights of Columbus in Brooklyn laid the cornerstone for its nine-story building at 1 Prospect Park West, and the structure was completed in 1925. The New York Times reported that Mayor John F. Hylan praised the Knights for "fostering that natural impulse toward good citizenship, which is so sorely tried by the distractions and temptations that beset our young people."
The group borrowed $750,000 against the $1.2 million cost, but the Knights were building not just for their own use but also for income. The magazine Architecture and Building wrote in 1925 that the banquet hall, 198 rooms (at $35 per month) and the 2,000-seat auditorium were intended to be used by outside parties, which would generate rental income. 
The same economic optimism was in play with the Level Club on West 73rd. Founded in 1919 by a few Masons, the Level Club had been doing fine in a small building on St. Nicholas Avenue. The budget was increased to $3 million from $1.7 million before ground was broken. Apparently, the prospect of the country's Masons staying in the 350 bedrooms seemed persuasive, along with a projected future New York membership of 5,000.
Designed by Clinton & Russell/Wells, Holton & George, the Romanesque-style facade spills down a waterfall of dramatic setbacks, with picturesque towers rising up like boulders in a stream. 
The 28-foot-high lobby was movie-theater baroque, with heavily colored and richly veined marble, and huge trusses supported the upper floors above the auditorium on the fourth and fifth floors. The Knights of Columbus buildings were tepid works, with little more character than a typical speculative project, but the Levelers built one of New York's most dramatic midblock structures. 
In 1927, Lodge 22 of the Brooklyn Elks began its own ambitious 13-story headquarters at Livingston Street and Boerum Place in Brooklyn, issuing $2.9 million in bonds. McKim, Mead & White designed a mild Italian Renaissance-style structure, solid but with little drama, except for the head and shoulders of an elk in bronze set into a cartouche over the main doorway. 
In 1929, a developer, Abraham H. Spiegelgas, who had lost heavily in the stock market, took one of its 250 rooms just before he was due in court to answer charges of misappropriation of funds. He killed himself in Room 725. The Times noted that he had left an apology to the Elks, and the context implies he was not actually a member, suggesting that the lodge may have been renting its rooms to the public. 
Another lodge building begun in 1926, the $2 million Pythian Temple on West 70th Street, was for the local chapter of the Knights of Pythias, a fraternal order founded in 1864. The theater designer Thomas Lamb created a midblock facade of movie-set Egyptian forms, seated Pharaonic figures, polychrome columns and a setback arrangement similar to that of the Level Club. Inside, there were 13 lodge rooms and an auditorium decorated in a striking Egyptian manner. 
A news report on a 1928 dinner by a group called the Women's 13 Club -- with smashed mirrors, spilled salt and black cats -- suggests that the Pythians also found it necessary to venture beyond the fraternal bonds for rental income, and by the 1930's they were certainly leasing the auditorium for religious and political meetings.
Other nonfraternal organizations also joined the 1920's rush to build up. The venerable New York Athletic Club built its reserved clubhouse on Central Park South and Seventh Avenue in 1928. The Explorers Club, founded in 1904, built an eight-story clubhouse at 544 West 110th Street in 1928. And the Downtown Athletic Club, a businessmen's organization founded only in 1926, built a 38-story Art Deco building at 19 West Street with 143 rooms for its 3,826 members in 1930. 
The crash of 1929 was tough on discretionary real estate like club facilities, but even before the crash there had been signs that this kind of improvement was hyperinflated. In April 1929, the Knights of Columbus in Manhattan denied to The Times that the Eighth Avenue clubhouse was for sale -- only to announce in the fall that they had reached a deal to radically alter their auditorium into a bus terminal. By the late 1930's the Knights were holding on to a few rooms, but most of the building was owned by a hotel operator. 
In 1930, the Level Club went into foreclosure -- only the first installment on its $2.2 million mortgage had been paid, in 1928, indicating that it was in trouble right from the beginning. In 1936, it became a conventional hotel.
The Fraternities Club on Madison Avenue was turned into a businessmen's hotel in 1931. The fraternities, evicted, said they were going to build their own structure, but no such project went ahead. 
In Brooklyn, the Elks began to miss payments on their bonds, and bondholders pressed for their money in 1932. The Elks hung on until 1936, when the city bought the building for new, centralized offices for the Board of Education, at that time with 2,400 employees spread around four offices. 
The sale angered the committee of bondholders -- who got only 10 cents on the dollar. And the move was not without conflict at the Board of Estimate, whose approval was required. At the last minute the borough presidents of the Bronx, Queens and Manhattan temporarily blocked the move, apparently miffed that Brooklyn was getting such a prize. 
But Henry Turner, president of the Board of Education, noted that Brooklyn had 40 percent of the city's school population and that the move would be "a direct contribution toward the increase in efficiency in administering the affairs of the school system by bringing under one roof its presently scattered bureaus." 
The city bought the building for $955,000, less than a third of its cost only eight years before, and even then half of the purchase price was simply the payment of a bill for back taxes. In 1937, a final sale of the Elks furnishings cleared the building, and in 1939 the architects Schultze & Weaver made sweeping alterations, erasing most of the Elks' majesty in favor of office space. 
THE Knights of Columbus in Brooklyn remained in place until foreclosure in 1948, and the Pythians held on to their Egyptian-style building until 1958, when it was sold to a school, the New York Institute of Technology -- although the Pythians had already been renting out its biggest auditorium to Decca Records for several years. 
The nonfraternal high-rise builders had a better track record after the crash. The Explorers Club lost its clubhouse on 110th Street in 1932, but the Downtown Athletic Club held on to its building until two years ago, despite some very rocky years in between. And the New York Athletic Club still has its Central Park South headquarters. 
It may have been that the Knights of Columbus, the Pythians, the Elks and others were hampered by their very fraternal character. In 1931, Dr. F. W. Mueller of the Methodist Episcopal Church told The Times that the age of high-rise churches was also over. He said that the principal problem was that the churches were at a disadvantage compared with typical property owners, their ostensibly nonprofit character leading to a "difficulty in collecting rents." The fraternal vows expressed in the lodge and council rooms may have compromised the hard-nosed financial dealings needed in the new world of the 1930's. 
In a new century, the fraternal high-rises have settled into the cityscape. The Knights of Columbus building in Brooklyn, now the Castle at Prospect Park, a residence for the elderly, is hardly discernible as anything more than another 1920's building. Its sibling building, on grimy Eighth Avenue, looks like a fringe-area hotel, although out-of-town guests must sometimes wonder about the memorial inscriptions on the facade. 
The Level Club and the Pythian Temple are still striking enough to cause people to stop and stare, but both were converted into apartments in the 1980's. They lost most of their surviving grand interiors, and the blank facades and giant cross-trusses through the middle of the buildings posed particular problems in the conversions. 
As for 110 Livingston Street, it has been routinely showered with epithets that go far beyond any architectural vices or virtues of the old Elks building. Indeed, its address is far more widely known than the building itself, which has the silent gravitas of a Federal Reserve Bank. 
According to Jerry Russo, a spokesman for what is now the Department of Education, the 800 employees from 110 Livingston Street are being transferred to the restored Tweed Courthouse, right behind City Hall, and 65 Court Street in Brooklyn. Earlier this year, the city sold 110 Livingston for $45 million to a developer, David Walentas, who plans a 245-unit condominium conversion. Passers-by can see the old "BPOE" monogram in the ironwork, which was deftly converted to "BOE" in the 1930's. 
The Masons, Elks and other groups have generally forgotten their real estate flings of the Roaring Twenties. Elks Lodge 22 now meets periodically in a rented storefront at 7210 New Utrecht Avenue in Brooklyn usually invisible behind a heavy roll-down gate. When they left 110 Livingston Street, the Elks -- or someone -- removed the bronze figure of an elk from the cartouche over the doorway; it was replaced with an appropriately educational relief of an open book over a lighted torch. 
The whereabouts of the original bronze is unknown, but it is not visible on Lodge 22's current headquarters. However, over the storefront is a brightly colored sign, with a fair rendering of an elk -- in paint.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former Pythian Temple on West 70th, left, now houses apartments. The building at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn, above, built by the Elks, was long Board of Education headquarters and is to be turned into condos. A detail, right, of the Level Club, built by Masons, on West 73rd; the building is now apartments. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 1); From far left: the Level Club on West 73rd Street, built by Masons, in a 1928 photo; 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn, built by Lodge 22 of the Benevolent Protective Order of Elks, in a 1929 photo; the Pythian Temple on West 70th Street, in a 1928 photo. Below far left, the entrance to 110 Livingston Street in 1929. Lodge 22 now meets in a rented storefront at 7210 New Utrecht Avenue in Brooklyn, below right. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Photo by Columbia University, Avery Library); (Photo by Office for Metropolitan History); (Photo by Underhill Collection, Museum of the City of New York)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (88%); HISTORY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); FORECLOSURE (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%) Organizations, Societies and Clubs; Housing

COMPANY: KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%) Elks (Orgn) ; Masons (Fraternal Organization); Knights of Columbus; Knights of Pythias

INDUSTRY: NAICS813410 CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); SIC8641 CIVIC, SOCIAL, & FRATERNAL ASSOCIATIONS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



562 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
A Chance For Utilities To Clean Up Their Act

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
THE blackout that swept through much of the Northeast and part of Canada 10 days ago has led to more scrutiny of utility companies, adding to a list of troubles that have beset the industry since the California energy crisis began in 2000.
 Until states began to deregulate the supply of power, utilities were staid companies that appealed to the most conservative investors. But in the last few years, these companies have become more volatile, having loaded up on debt to pay for ventures into energy trading and other new businesses. 
 Last week, the $1.6 billion Franklin Utilities fund rebounded after a brief fall -- attributable to its stake in FirstEnergy, the Ohio utility at the center of investigations into the power failure. The fund manager, John C. Kohli, discussed his post-blackout views.

Q. What are the ramifications for utilities investors from the blackout?

A. From a public policy standpoint, it was a good event for the utility sector in general. An event like this helps bring the issues that exist in the United States in terms of electric infrastructure into full view and onto the front page. The implication is that in the long run, they will get their act together to regulate this industry in a manner that allows it to generate adequate returns on new investment in infrastructure.

Q. Has it changed your approach to investing in these companies?

A. It doesn't affect our investment viewpoint. Some may argue that more regulation and more oversight may inhibit growth, but we actually prefer the regulated side of this industry. Regulation helps create more stability and more predictability of returns.

Q. So, are you more bullish now on the industry?

A. We've been relatively positive on the sector from the standpoint that this is an industry whose catch phrase over the past year has been "back to basics." This is an industry that made horrible investments through the supposed deregulation opportunity. Every electric utility wanted to follow down the path of Enron or Calpine and wanted to develop unregulated trading strategies. That strategy blew up in the face of most energy companies.

Q. FirstEnergy, which was the eighth-biggest holding in your fund, fell 10.5 percent on Monday and is still down 8.7 percent. What are you doing with it?

A. We're sticking with our investment in FirstEnergy, but we haven't added any shares. We'd prefer to be conservative and let the investigation move along a little more and see what transpires. We like FirstEnergy from the standpoint that it's a free-cash-flow story. In 2004 it will generate $700 million to $800 million in free cash flow to use to pay down debt. Its potential liability looks to be low. We don't see a lot of direct financial liability from this outage, but if it were found to be FirstEnergy's fault, it would raise concerns about management.

Q. How has the tax cut on dividends affected returns on utility stocks?

A. People seem to have forgotten it. Since the beginning of June, the electric utility industry has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 by about 10 percent, despite renewed emphasis on dividends. This industry pays out close to 65 percent of its earnings in dividends. Entergy boosted its dividend by over 35 percent last month. Kinder Morgan significantly boosted its dividend.

Q. What else do you like?

A. We own Constellation Energy, a company that fits a little bit more of a merchant profile. When they started building out their trading operation we sold out of it. Now they've refocused on dividend and have very solid management. In a year, they more than doubled the dividend to 26 cents a quarter. We also look for utilities, like FPL and Southern Company, with good regulated businesses coupled with a lot of low-cost production from nuclear or coal generation that can make money from selling electricity on the wholesale power grid.

Q. So, are you looking now for companies with more risk-averse management?

A. We feel a lot more comfortable in managements that are focused on generating small, stable returns. This is a mature industry. There's not a lot of room for growth. It generally grows somewhat in line with gross domestic product, 2 to 3 percent. Managements have gotten themselves in trouble when they have tried to move outside that 2 to 3 percent growth area.

Q. How much confidence do you have that managers won't chase the next hot thing?

A. I don't have a lot. But I am confident that the financial leverage that's been built up over the last few years and the bad taste left in investors' mouths will prevent them from chasing the next hot opportunity for several years. Ten years from now, there probably will be some new energy technology or industry that captures the electric utility industry's attention again.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John C. Kohli 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FIRSTENERGY CORP (FE) ; Franklin Utilities Fund; Firstenergy Corp

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan; John C Kohli

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



563 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: Former Dot-Commers Are Adjusting, Painfully 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
IN 2000, when Michael Drexler was 61, he walked away from a 40-year career in traditionaladvertising to join Mediasmith, a young agency that specialized in Internet ads. But he found the small start-up company "too limiting," so a year later he signed on as chief executive of Optimedia International, the well-established media buying arm of the ZenithOptimedia Group.
 To hear him tell it, his brief foray into dot-com land taught him a huge amount about how to harness the Internet's power for clients. Yet he is certain that Optimedia hired him in spite of, not because of, his stint at Mediasmith. 
 "I learned how interactive ads work -- how, for example, even people who don't immediately click on an ad may go to the advertiser's site later on," Mr. Drexler said. "But no one at Optimedia really thought of that year at Mediasmith as an asset." 
Chapter 2 of the Great Dot-Com Bust of 2000 has begun, the part in which former employees of Internet start-ups try to re-acclimate to the corporate world. While they were gone, they tasted what it was like to introduce products without multilayered approvals, to set their own hours, to party hard as well as work hard, and often, to own a sizable stake in the company. And they have seen what the Internet can and cannot do. 
But few are the millionaires they expected to be: many are poorer than they were to begin with. Some are still frantically seeking jobs, while others are humbly grateful for finding even ill-suited ones. And many are struggling to gain -- or to regain -- corporate America's respect. Even the lucky few who landed exactly where they wanted, like Mr. Drexler, are having trouble persuading colleagues that their dot-com experience wasn't for naught.
The influx is still new, so few if any academics have formally studied it. But management experts, extrapolating from growing anecdotal evidence, say the adjustment is hard for young and middle-aged executives alike, though in different ways.
"The 20-somethings who were brought up in the dot-coms have to learn everything, from dress norms to timeliness to dealing with lines of authority," said Eric Abrahamson, a management professor at the Columbia Business School.
Far worse, said Daniel Cable, an associate professor of organizational behavior at the Keenan Flagler Business School of the University of North Carolina, they must view their former habits as unacceptable. "The true reality shock," he said, "comes from trying to unlearn ways of doing things that you've been socialized into believing were the norm."
The older returnees, in contrast, have to persuade colleagues and bosses that they were enhanced, not tainted, by their time away.
"I thought companies would value the experiences that executives had in the dot-com world, like learning to live with thin capitalization and limited resources," said James M. Citrin, a partner at Spencer Stuart, the executive search firm. "Instead, many shunned the would-be returnees or treated them as though the entire dot-com experience was inconsequential."
IN fact, many management experts concede that there is no way to know the possible significance of a dot-com foray. Some returning dot-commers come back more willing to take risks; others are totally risk-averse. Some have little patience for processes, while others have newfound respect for structure. Some return supremely confident, while others are grappling with insecurity. Some have learned to operate leanly, but others never learned the value of a dollar.
"I won't hire those dot-commers who were paying absurd rents, eating in expensive restaurants, basically living on borrowed money and borrowed time," said Willy Shih, president of the digital and applied imaging division at Eastman Kodak. The company did buy Ofoto, an online photo service, in 2001, but only after Mr. Shih assured himself that Ofoto's founders "had always had their feet on the ground and would fit in."
So, if it is not always easy to know how the dot-com experience affected a job candidate, why hire dot-com refugees at all -- particularly in a persistently sluggish economy in which qualified applicants without ingrained bad habits far outnumber job openings? 
"Many of them have seen failure on a grand scale, up close and ugly, and that's something few in corporate America get to see," said James Schrager, clinical professor of entrepreneurship and strategic management at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. "People who've stubbed their toes in dot-com land come away with great lessons."
Among those lessons are these:
* Being a Luddite is bad, but being a technophile can be worse. Robert H. Swan, 43, went from General Electric to the online grocer Webvan in 1999, and stayed with it until its bankruptcy in 2001. He is now chief financial officer for Electronic Data Systems, where he insists that every capital outlay be tied to meeting a basic customer need. "If Webvan had spent as much intellectual and financial capital on finding out what customers wanted, and less on fancy technologies, it might still be around," Mr. Swan said.
* There is a difference between red tape and necessary procedures. Mark Seals, 49, worked for Pepsi and Anheuser-Busch before he became what he calls the "process guru" at the ill-fated Meals.com in 2000. He is now a senior vice president of Kinko's, in charge of building the company's fledgling international division.
He said he is "cherry picking" entrenched processes, keeping those that help quantify goals and measure progress against them, scrapping those that require line-by-line financial forecasts or multiple approvals for buying furniture or real estate. "If I'd come straight here from A.B. or PepsiCo, I would have built a big staff, complete with complicated compensation plans and legal reviews and 100-page manuals," Mr. Seals said. 
* They are more comfortable dealing with the outside world. "When I was with big corporations, I dealt only with my boss and senior management," said one executive who did not want to be named because, he said, he was a bit embarrassed by his former insularity. "It was at a dot-com that I learned to network with investors and venture capitalists and customers." He continues to ply those skills in his latest job, as a corporate vice president. 
* Speed can connote efficiency as well as recklessness. Terry Lee, 49, had worked for Safeway, Del Monte and Basic American Foods before stints with Troba, an Internet software company, and Onvia.com, an online trading mart for businesses. Now he is a vice president of Albertsons, the supermarket giant, charged with building up the company's private-label business. "In my first 45 days I set strategy, restructured the organization along product lines and started the development process that led to our premium brand Essentia," he said. "It certainly would have taken me a lot longer if I hadn't developed the confidence to make speedy decisions."
* Employee loyalty isn't an outdated concept. David A. Galante, 45, wanted to taste the excitement of a start-up company, and left Xerox to join Lifecast.com, which was a host for Web sites for country clubs. He was out of work for five months after Lifecast went belly up. He is now the director of commercial marketing for Kinko's. "Before this, I'd never had to look for a job in my entire career, and it was a horrid experience," Mr. Galante said. "Now what I want is a company with sound business fundamentals and a solid future, somewhere I can spend the rest of my career."
* It is often easy to do more with less. Mary Alice Taylor, 53, worked for Shell Oil, Citibank and Cook Industries before becoming chairwoman of HomeGrocer.com in 1999; the company is now out of business. Ms. Taylor now serves on the boards of five companies.. At one recent meeting, she sent a divisional manager back to the drawing board to figure out how a new product could be developed with fewer people than he had requested. "If I had never left the corporate world, I might not realize how much productivity you can get from a small but motivated group," she said.
* The Internet may not be a great business model, but it is a great business tool. That lesson was by no means confined to those who lived through dot-com failures. Between his old job as chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines and his current one, as chief financial officer of Electronic Arts, Warren C. Jenson, 46, spent about three years at Amazon.com, a definite dot-com success. "Sure, I learned about e-commerce, but more importantly, I learned the full power of all kinds of Internet-based technologies for a high-growth business," Mr. Jenson said. 
Similarly, Babs Rangaiah, 36, had been with D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles for nine years when he joined Agency.com, an Internet advertising consulting firm that is still in business. Now, as the media manager for home and personal care brands at Unilever USA, he has built a healthy dose of Internet advertising into his media mix. "The dot-com experience made me much more receptive to that idea," he said.
* Managers must value elan and encourage optimism. Mr. Gallante, who manages a staff of nine at Kinko's, is no longer impatient with young people's "naive" ideas. "I explain that we can't go charging down a path without analyzing," he said, "but I encourage them to keep bringing those ideas to the table."
Mr. Lee, of Albertsons, learned the importance of celebrating at regular monthly meetings the successes of his 60-member staff. "I saw the passion that existed at the dot-coms, and realize that applauding individual and team successes can really foster that passion here," he said.
That is a lesson that managers without dot-com experience are learning to apply to the dot-commers who wind up on their staffs. Through trial and error, they are finding ways to introduce structure and accountability without squelching zeal.
In April 2002, Sabre Holdings, which owned part of the online travel service Travelocity, bought the whole company. A month later, Sabre named Sam Gilliland, a Sabre executive since 1988, as Travelocity's president.
He said he was blown away by the group's competitiveness -- but also by its habit of going in 20 directions at once. "They'd be working on 30 product ideas, and I'd be asking them to pick five major ones that could offer earnings and sustainable growth," Mr. Gilliland, 41, said. "I needed them to do fewer things, but each of them better." He now has them detail the rationale behind proposed services and investments. After he has ascertained that the ideas make sense, he bows out. The approach recently led to the introduction of Travelocity Total Trip, which offers package rates for air fare and hotel rooms.
"Travelocity is Sabre's growth engine right now, and while I have to say no sometimes, I am not going to micromanage their innovation," Mr. Gilliland said.
Kodak had an easier time assimilating Ofoto, which was accustomed to writing business plans and rolling out products in an orderly way. Still, Ofoto's compensation plans and work habits were vastly different from Kodak's. Mr. Shih, who oversees the group, devised a pay plan for Ofoto that is richer in equity than most Kodak pay packages, and he has promised not to tinker with the plan for at least three years. And he allowed Ofoto to keep its headquarters in Emeryville, Calif., and its own board -- although Kodak executives now fill the seats once occupied by venture capitalists. 
The board meets monthly, half the time in Emeryville and the other half in Rochester, Kodak's base. The Ofoto people sometimes have to wake up early to participate in morning conference calls. But for the most part, Mr. Shih and the Ofoto managers call one another when the mood strikes -- yes, that can mean weekends or late nights -- and they take turns traveling across the country for meetings.
So far, the Ofoto people seem satisfied. "Maybe we'll miss all those stock options, but Silicon Valley stock options are useful mainly for kindling now, anyway," said James Joaquin, 37, Ofoto's executive vice president.
Perhaps most important, though, is that the Ofoto employees do not feel shoehorned into an alien world. "Willy protected us from the kind of bear hug a big corporation could give," said Lisa Gansky, 43, Ofoto's chairwoman. "He didn't just put us into the corporate Cuisinart and press 'puree.' "

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the new careers of onetime dot-com employees misidentified the business school of the University of North Carolina, where an associate professor, Daniel Cable, described how such workers had to unlearn their old work habits. It is the Kenan-Flagler Business School, not Keenan Flagler.
An article on Aug. 24 about dot-com workers who return to corporate America misstated the history of Mediasmith Inc., former employer of one such executive. It was formed as a traditional media agency in 1989 and has worked with Web-based and traditional clients since 1995; it was not a start-up in 2000. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Willy Shih, president of Kodak's digital and applied imaging division, with Lisa Gansky, Ofoto's chairwoman. (Photo by Will Yurman for The New York Times); David A. Galante, left, and Mark Seals both worked at failed dot-coms before returning to the corporate world, this time at Kinko's. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times); Michael Drexler worked for a start-up company for a year but said he found it too limiting, so he rejoined the traditional advertising world. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 7) Drawing (Drawing by James O'Brien)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (91%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Working Hours; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%)

PERSON: JAMES J O'BRIEN (56%) Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



564 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH -- John C. Hath away; 
Tocqueville Gold Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
GOLD prices appear poised to reach new highs, in the view of John C. Hathaway, manager of the $280 million Tocqueville Gold fund.
 Gold prices were in a bear market for more than 20 years after peaking at $681.50 an ounce in January 1980. Since bottoming at $252 in August 1999, they have since risen to $364.30 -- and Mr. Hathaway says they should continue to climb. 
 "By year-end, gold will be trading over $400 an ounce," he said from his office in Midtown Manhattan, "and within five years, there's a reasonable chance that gold will be trading at four digits."
Mr. Hathaway calls himself a value investor who saw an opportunity in gold, a traditional market hedge, when he started the fund in June 1998. The fund returned 39.1 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, in contrast to a loss of 11.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. The fund gained 52.4 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a gain of 7.6 percent for the S.& P. 500.
To help build a diversified portfolio, he said, investors should keep 5 to 10 percent of their portfolios in gold investments. 
Mr. Hathaway says the current environment for gold reminds him of the 1970's, when the big buildup of credit related to the Vietnam War created weak stock and bond returns and strong gold prices. "In the 1990's, artificially low interest rates created by Federal Reserve intervention skewed the public markets," he said. "That's why we had such a mania, and they don't get corrected overnight."
Mr. Hathaway, 62, is a senior partner at Tocqueville Asset Management, the fund's adviser. He also manages about $100 million for institutions and individuals. 
He picks the fund's roughly 75 stocks from about 500 global companies that mine or process gold. He has owned 25 core holdings since the fund's inception in 1997, adding to or trimming positions as valuations shift.
Those core companies, he said, typically have high-quality assets and strong balance sheets and operate in countries with minimal political risk. They usually do not hedge production, which means that their performance is linked closely to changes in gold prices.
To value companies, Mr. Hathaway compares enterprise value -- market capitalization plus debt, minus cash -- to net present value, or the total value of reserves minus the cost of production in today's dollars.
Typically, he said, companies with multiple mines trade for premiums to their net present value, so he compares a company's current premium with those of its past and those of competitors.
The premium also reflects how bullish investors are about gold prices. Premiums averaged 31 percent at the end of July, according to the Bank of Montreal Nesbitt Burns index, at the low end of their five-year range. They peaked at 120 percent in 1999, he said, but had dwindled to zero by April.
Mr. Hathaway has been adding to his stakes in three gold companies. One is Randgold Resources, an exploration and mining company that is based on the Isle of Jersey and operates primarily in the Ivory Coast, Mali, Tanzania and Senegal. Randgold is now trying to acquire Ashanti Goldfields, a bigger company, but Mr. Hathaway said the possibility of the merger's completion was remote. He first bought the company's American depository receipts in 2001 and has paid $9.77, on average, for the position; the A.D.R.'s now trade at $13.20. They sold for a premium of about 34 percent at the end of July.
The company has a strong balance sheet, Mr. Hathaway said, and assets in West Africa, which he called an "exciting exploration frontier." He projected that the company would produce about 340,000 ounces of gold this year, with current reserves that can last nearly nine years.
MR. HATHAWAY began buying A.D.R.'s of Gold Fields Ltd., a South African gold company, in 1998. Gold Fields explores, develops and mines gold ore deposits in South Africa, Ghana and Australia. Mr. Hathaway estimated that production this year would exceed four million ounces, with potential production for 60 years. He described Gold Fields as "world class," with the "highest-quality, longest-lived mines in the world."
He paid $10.47, on average, for the A.D.R.'s, which now trade at $12.70. They sold for a premium of 60 percent at the end of July.
The fund's biggest holding is Placer Dome, the gold producer based in Vancouver, British Columbia. The company has mining interests worldwide, including in Canada, Chile and the United States. Mr. Hathaway called it an "unloved laggard which has substantial value." Investors have shunned the company, he said, since its 1999 acquisition of Getchell Gold. Getchell is just resuming production, and many investors think that Placer Dome paid too much for the company. But the current share price, he said, already reflects that opinion. In July, the shares' premium was 34 percent.
The fund began buying the stock in 1998, paying $10.31 a share, on average. It now trades at $13.07.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about investing in the Tocqueville Gold fund misstated the historical peak for gold bullion prices, reached in January 1980. It was $850 an ounce, not $681.50.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John C. Hathaway predicts that gold prices will top $400 an ounce by year-end -- and that they might reach four digits within five years. (Photo by Carol Halebian for The New York Times) Chart: "Tocqueville Gold"Category: Precious metalsNet assets: $280 millionInception: June 1998Manager: John C. Hathaway since inceptionMinimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 72%3-year annualized return through Thursday: +39.1%Category average: +31.4% Sector breakdown GOLD STOCKS IN:Canada: 30%United States: 18%South Africa: 13%Australia: 5%Other: 28%GOLD BULLION: 6% Fees Front-end load -- NoneDeferred load -- None12b-1 fee -- 0.25%Expense ratio -- 1.68% (Sources by Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FUTURES (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BONDS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COUNTRY RISK (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Gold; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Tocqueville Gold Fund

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: Carole Gould; John C Hathaway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



565 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
For Budget Shortfalls, Choose Grim Or Grimmer

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office will unveil its latest prognosis for federal budget shortfalls over the next 10 years.
 And while it is impossible to know what the nonpartisan agency will say, one thing is all but certain: no matter how bleak the forecast, the real outlook is worse. 
 The prospects for the current fiscal year are already clear. Last month, the White House predicted that the federal shortfall this year would nearly double, to a record $455 billion. Congressional analysts had a slightly lower estimate: $401 billion. 
As Republicans often argue, the current deficits are high though not catastrophic. The shortfall this year will equal about 4.2 percent of gross domestic product, but that is proportionately lower than the deficits reached in the 1980's. 
In addition, more than half of the deficit this year stems from the weak economy, which crippled tax receipts, and the war in Iraq. In a sense, both items amount to one-time costs and will disappear.
On this point, the Congressional Budget Office is almost certain to agree with the White House. Yes, the government's fiscal health declined sharply in the last six months, the Congressional analysts are likely to confirm. But its charts will almost certainly show budget deficits that will gradually retreat to tamer levels.
But that is not the whole story. A new assessment by Democrats on the House Budget Committee tries to introduce factors that the Congressional Budget Office is not allowed to include. Among them are these:
* A realistic allowance for the continued costs of occupying Iraq and Afghanistan. Those costs are running about $60 billion a year at present.
* An allowance for the cost of making permanent the scores of tax cuts passed this year and in 2001, as President Bush advocates. The estimated cost over 10 years would be $656 billion.
* An allowance for fixing the alternative minimum tax. It was originally intended to prevent the rich from aggressively avoiding taxes, but it is expected to force huge tax increases on nearly 40 million people over the next 10 years as inflation pushes up nominal incomes. Democrats and Republicans agree that they want to prevent that from happening, but doing so would cost at least $400 billion over 10 years.
* An allowance for a huge prescription drug program, now pending in Congress, to benefit the elderly. That would also cost $400 billion over 10 years.
The Democratic forecast assumes that economic growth will be strong, at more than 3 percent a year for the next decade. But it also predicts that tax revenue will fall short of administration projections by an additional $69 billion a year. That shortfall has nothing to do with the new tax cuts.
The Democrats argue that the administration's forecasts are unrealistic because they assume that individual and corporate tax receipts will return to the lofty levels at the height of the stock market bubble.
The administration's forecast assumes that individual and corporate taxes will soon equal about 10 percent of the total economy, as they did just before the bubble burst. But the average over many previous years was closer to 8 percent.
The Democrats' analysis predicts that discretionary spending will grow faster than the White House predicts. Military spending would continue to increase at well above the rate of inflation, as the administration suggests, while nonmilitary spending would continue to keep pace with inflation.
THE bottom line, according to the Democratic forecasters, is that deficits could exceed $400 billion a year for the rest of the decade. If one subtracts the surpluses in the Social Security and Medicare trust funds, which are theoretically being saved for the time when the baby boomers retire en masse, then the operating deficits will soar.
"When the policies that are likely to be passed are added in, and the Social Security surpluses are subtracted, we face a very alarming prospect," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee. "That is deficits of over $500 billion a year for as far as the forecast goes."
To be sure, past budget forecasts proved wildly inaccurate, failing to anticipate the flood of revenues at the end of the stock market bubble or the startling plunge that followed its collapse. In addition, of course, Democrats are using the deficit as a cudgel to undermine any popularity Republicans can earn as crowd-pleasing tax-cutters.
But even if one greets any long-term budget forecast with enormous skepticism, it is hardly a stretch to say that the fiscal outlook is far more fragile than it may appear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



566 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Friday Sellers Invade the Market's Party

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
After climbing impressively early last week, major stock market indicators fell back on Friday afternoon as traders took profits. But the market still ended the week with gains. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 26.18 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 9,348.87. The Nasdaq composite index gained 63.31 points, or 3.7 percent, to 1,765.32, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index picked up 2.39 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 993.06.
 Earlier in the week, the Nasdaq reached a 16-month high and the Dow set a 14-month high. 
 Strong second-quarter earnings reports have fed the recent gains, and Intel added to the trend Friday morning, saying it expected third-quarter revenue of $7.3 billion to $7.5 billion, much higher than previously forecast and up from $6.5 billion in the period last ydar. That lifted the overall market, and especially chip makers. By midday, however, thd rally had fizzled. Intel rose $1, or 3.8 percent, to close at $27.39.
 But the market also had weak spots, notably among drug makers. On Friday, Schering-Plough fell $1.52, or 9.2 percent, to $14.96, after forecasting a drop in profits next year and saying it would cut 1,000 jobs and reduce its dividend by 68 percent. Foreign stocks trading in American markets also fell.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. TiVoNNM: TIVOThe maker of digital television recorders reported a secondquarter loss of $4.4 million, narrower than expected, and raised its estimates for growth in the number of subscribers to its service.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $10.91WEEK'S CHANGE -- +21.63%EST. 03 P/E -- Foot LockerNYSE: FLThe shoe retailer reported a 16 percent profit increase and said business in the United States had been strong lately. It also said its relationship with Nike had improved.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $16.25WEEK'S CHANGE -- +8.33%EST. 03 P/E -- 13.52 SolutiaNYSE: SOIShares surged after the company and its former parent, Monsanto, agreed to settle claims by Alabama residents of PCB contamination from a chemical plant. Solutia will pay $50 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $3.53WEEK'S CHANGE -- +184.68%EST. 03 P/E -- Cima LabsNNM: CIMACima, which had agreed to merge with the drug company AaiPharma, received a higher offer from Cephalon, a biopharmaceutical company, setting the stage for a bidding war.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $26.57WEEK'S CHANGE -- +20.72%EST. 03 P/E -- 24.26 Hewlett-PackardNYSE: HPQThe company reached profitability, but its net income and sales were below forecasts, renewing investors' doubts about its merger with Compaq Computer last year. H-P also faces pressure from Dell, which cut its prices.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $19.45WEEK'S CHANGE -- -9.11%EST. 03 P/E -- 16.91 FirstEnergyNYSE: FEA failure in FirstEnergy's power lines in Ohio may have been a cause of the recent massive blackout, but investors were relieved that the company met a deadline for filing financial statements.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $28.30WEEK'S CHANGE -- -7.55%EST. 03 P/E -- 12.49 Dillard'sNYSE: DDSThe department store operator reported a wider-than-expected quarterly loss of $50.4 million. Weak sales have prompted it to cut prices aggressively to clear out some of its excess inventory.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $14.80WEEK'S CHANGE -- -8.87%EST. 03 P/E -- 41.46 BroadcomNNM: BRCMThe maker of communications chips raised its revenue outlook and said it would meet analysts' expectations for 2004. It also cleared up investor uncertainty about the performance of its ServerWorks unit.FRIDAY'S CLOSE -- $25.80WEEK'S CHANGE -- +21.35%EST. 03 P/E -- 60.71

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); LAYOFFS (65%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TIVO INC (TIVO); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (HPQ) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



567 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A Six-Month Revival Plan for Iraq 

 BODY:
The terrorists who destroyed the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last week not only blew up the most important symbol of international involvement in rebuilding Iraq. They also fueled growing doubts among the American people about the Bush administration's contention that Iraq is already on the way to recovery. In truth, Iraq is staggering ahead, at best, and the administration has yet to show that it has a realistic plan to produce tangible progress over the next six months. 
 It will take more than White House vows to stay the course. What is needed is a detailed plan for restoring Iraq's security and economic viability, backed by the resources that are required to achieve it. This has to be accompanied by credible steps toward self-government, carried out in close coordination with the U.N. The patience and good will of most Iraqis have not yet been exhausted, but they won't last forever. 
 The starting point must be greatly improved security for the Iraqi people, the international-aid workers and the United States occupation forces. More American troops would help, in particular intelligence specialists, special forces, civic action units, engineers and military police. Soldiers from other countries, including Muslim countries, are also needed. Currently, more than 90 percent of international troops inside Iraq come from either the United States or Britain. 
Equally important is a larger police presence to control violent street crime. Iraqis who see their possessions pillaged, their sons threatened with armed robbery and their daughters fearful of rape will not look kindly on the American occupation. International police forces need to be recruited, ideally from Arab countries like Jordan and Morocco, while more Iraqi police are being trained. At least 5,000 international police officers will have to be urgently recruited.
Economic revival must begin with reliable supplies of water and electricity, without which neither normal life nor business activity can proceed. It will take $16 billion over the next four years to ensure safe and sustained water supplies. Another $13 billion will be required over a comparable period to rebuild Iraq's patchwork electric-power network. Hospitals and health care are near collapse and will take billions to revive. Six out of 10 Iraqi workers are without jobs, and six million live in chronic poverty. 
According to the best estimates, rebuilding Iraq is likely to cost some $20 billion a year for the next five years. It will be some time before the Iraqi oil industry is back to full strength. And other large donors have been reluctant to contribute until agreement has been reached on a strengthened U.N. role. So most of that money will have to come from the United States. That's a lot to ask from American taxpayers, but far less than the cost of stationing large numbers of American combat troops in Iraq indefinitely.
Broader international support will not materialize until Washington changes its Lone Ranger approach. Last week's decision to seek a new U.N. resolution is encouraging. But unless Washington is willing to accept a much larger U.N. role in developing independent Iraqi political institutions, other countries will continue to hold back. It is appropriate for America and Britain to remain in command of international military and police forces.
Without a stronger U.N. political presence, however, the Governing Council recently appointed by Washington risks being perceived as America's puppet. America has not yet lost the peace in Iraq, but it could in the next six months if the Iraqi people do not see concrete benefits from the American occupation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ROBBERY (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Editorials; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Finances; Foreign Aid; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); MOROCCO (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



568 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GREENWICH VILLAGE; 
A Birthing Center Falls Prey To Rising Insurance Costs

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

 BODY:
About 30 years ago, when the women's movement was at its zenith, what you might call the birth movement experienced a quickening. The women who had just liberated themselves from constricting brassieres, as well as those impressed by the natural labor approach popular in Europe, abandoned hospital delivery rooms in favor of midwife-assisted deliveries at home or at a clinic made to feel like home.
 In New York, the home-but-not-home option was the Maternity Center Association Birth Center, which opened in 1975 on East 92nd Street. In 1996, the clinic was reborn and christened the Elizabeth Seton Birthing Center and moved to 14th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues in the Village, where it has since welcomed about 1,470 babies who have arrived on the floor, between the faded polka-dot sheets and through the U-shaped birthing stool, all without anesthesia. Their mothers, who include doctors and midwives and women of many economic strata, tend to rave about the clinic. 
 Then, what you might call the insurance movement had its own quickening. A soaring number of malpractice suits caused medical insurance rates to skyrocket, hitting obstetrical practices the hardest. Last month, the birthing center learned that its insurance rate would rise 400 percent. Calls to other insurers revealed just as costly rate increases. Crestfallen, the director, Pat Troy, decided to close the center and move its clinical services into St. Vincent's Hospital two blocks away. It will close at midnight next Sunday.
 But there is something about the center that its staff fears will be lost in the move. Not just the dim lights and homey furnishings -- the double beds with cherry headboards, rocking chairs with U-shaped seats and granny quilts on the walls -- but the heart of natural childbirth itself, which requires vast support.
 "At a hospital, a woman checks in and they put her in a bed," said Elissa Marsh, a midwife at the center. "Here, it's easier for a woman who wants a natural childbirth. We have tubs, massage, hydrotherapy and all the support. The bed is not the focus of the room. The woman is the focus of the room." 
 One of the center's last clients arrived at 6:03 a.m. last Tuesday morning, and by 4 p.m. indeed found himself in bed. Phineas Rainey nestled in his mother's arms as she and his father lay in a double bed of floral sheets and happily discussed a middle name as if they were already home. 
 "Sweetcorn," Michael Rainey said, his pen hovering over a form. 
 "Shut up," his wife, Holly, murmured with a smile. "I want the birth certificate back." She gazed lovingly at her husband and the baby sleeping between them. 
 "We don't remove the birth from the home," said Ms. Troy, the director. "We allow the woman to walk around, scream, do a water birth. We don't handcuff the woman to the bed and not allow her to go to the hospital, but we do at least let her try natural childbirth. We're just one of the choices she has. Or at least we used to be." MICHELLE O'DONNELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phineas Rainey, one of the last arrivals at the Elizabeth Seton center, charms his parents. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); MIDWIVES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLOSINGS (72%); INSURANCE (67%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (52%) Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: MATERNITY CENTER ASSOCIATION (57%) Elizabeth Seton Birthing Center

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) Michelle O'donnell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



569 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FORDHAM; 
As in a Western, the Goal Is to Clean Up This Town

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
It may sound more like a Bronx food festival, but the focus of Fordham Road's "Taste of the BID" is sanitary, not culinary.
 On Friday, property owners, merchants and customers along bustling, traffic-choked Fordham Road got the first flavor of what it would be like to be part of a Business Improvement District, as litter- and graffiti-removal teams began patrolling the streets. A marketing campaign to promote the shopping strip also began, in time for the back-to-school rush. 
 The inauguration had been planned for Aug. 15, but was delayed because of the blackout.
 A Taste of the BID will run through Columbus Day, after which property owners will decide whether they want to make it permanent, a process that requires city and state approval; it can be derailed if more than half of the property owners object. 
 The committee promoting the BID, made up of property owners and others with a stake in the area, raised almost $20,000 for the test run to make sure a long-stalled effort did not stall again. 
 "There has been discussion of a BID on Fordham Road for more than 20 years," said Donald Simon, dean of college relations at Monroe College on Fordham Road, one of the institutions supporting the BID. "This time it's going to happen."
 The sticking point is that the city's 44 current BID's are financed by a property tax surcharge, much of it absorbed by merchants. If property owners and their tenants come on board, the BID could be up and running by fall 2004.
 If a recent informal survey is any indication, some of the smaller business owners are wary. Frank Shaolin, the owner of Gold Town, a jewelry store, doubted that cleaning and graffiti removal crews would improve business. "No way," he said. "It's not Fifth Avenue. It's the Bronx."
 That is not the attitude organizers are hoping for. Wilma Alonso, executive director of the Bronx Coalition for Economic Development, said it was a matter of persuading everyone that unlike regular taxes, these payments actually served them directly. "You are really involved in the way you spend the money," she said. SETH KUGEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FESTIVALS (78%); VANDALISM (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); GRAFFITI (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (56%) Littering; Graffiti; Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Fordham Road (nyc); Bronx (NYC) 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



570 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Forget Deregulation. It's the Wires, Stupid.

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
TEN days after the biggest power failure in American history, finger-pointing over the role that electricity deregulation played in the blackout is flowing at the speed of light. 
 Opponents of electricity deregulation say that this month's outage proves that the market cannot be trusted to supply dependable, cost-efficient electricity. Over the last few years, as deregulation has spread, the electric grid has grown steadily more unstable. More blackouts are inevitable unless states and the federal government reassert control over wholesale power markets, they say. 
 Supporters of deregulation say that there is no evidence that deregulation played any role in the blackout.
The outage, which began the afternoon of Aug. 14, plunged eight states and two countries into darkness that lasted for more than a day. Cities from New York to Detroit were left without power, as 100 power plants shut down and 62,000 megawatts of electricity were lost, about 10 percent of the total power supply east of the Mississippi. Although there were no major civil disturbances, several blackout-related deaths were reported, including at least two in New York and two in Canada.
The real problem behind the blackout, said William Hogan, a public policy professor at Harvard University, is that the effort to create wholesale power markets has not gone far enough. Some states, like New York, have fully deregulated, forcing utilities to sell plants and buy power from generators in wholesale power markets. In those states, the power grid is controlled by an "independent system operator" that controlsthe flow of electricity to make sure that the power being traded can actually get where it is supposed to go. 
But the Midwest has a weaker system operator that does not truly control its grids, and some Southern states have essentially rejected deregulation, allowing utilities to continue to own their plants. The patchwork of rules and standards impairs communication and makes failures more likely, Mr. Hogan said.
"It doesn't make sense to have different rules in Ohio and New York, but we do," he said. "We're in the middle, and that's a dangerous place to be." 
Some independent experts, though, say the controversy over deregulation is misguided. 
Deregulation is doing what it is supposed to do by allowing electricity users to seek out the best price for power, even if that power comes from a plant hundreds of miles away. The real problem is that the transmission grid -- the substations and high-voltage wires that move power from plants to consumers -- was not designed for that purpose, said Richard Schuler, an economics and civil engineering professor at Cornell University who is also on the board of New York's independent system operator. Instead, the grid was intended to be a highly reliable way to move electricity relatively short distances. 
The grid must be strengthened, and perhaps expanded, so that it can handle its new role, Mr. Schuler said. Unfortunately, the money and the political will to do that are in short supply. No one wants to live near high-voltage transmission wires, and few major lines have been put up anywhere in the last decade. States where electricity is inexpensive are even wary of increasing capacity on lines that already exist, since that will enable their generators to sell power outside their borders. For example, Connecticut is fighting to keep a privately owned power cable that runs under the Long Island Sound to Shoreham, N.Y. from operating, since it would tighten the supply of electricity in Connecticut and might raise prices. 
Only a national regulator can force states to accept transmission lines that may not be in their interest, said Richard J. Rudden, chief executive of a consulting firm that specializes in energy issues. But for now, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission lacks that power. 
"We really need the FERC to have more authority in siting transmission lines," Mr. Rudden said. 
Another obstacle is cost. 
Mr. Rudden estimates that it will require $30 billion to $50 billion over the next five years to modernize the grid. But the question of who should pay that cost remains unanswered. 
In New York and other states that have deregulated, consumers have seen few benefits from deregulation. They are not exactly clamoring for another surcharge on their bills, even if it is eventually supposed to produce savings. So getting more transmission will take years or decades, unless consumers demand that the grid be improved and accept that in return they may have to pay a bit more for power. But despite the flurry of outrage that the blackout caused, complacency about the reliability of the system will probably creep back in, as long as the lights do not go out again, Mr. Rudden said.
"People are not going to permit the construction of new facilities and pay for them until there's a major outage," he said. "I'm not sure that even this blackout is the wake-up call -- I'm not sure that this is going to pull the nation together." 
Mr. Schuler echoed that sentiment.
"Infrastructure -- when it's first brought on, the public loves it," he said. "Then it becomes almost an entitlement, and we forget how fragile it is, and so we fail to reinvest in it. There's a human propensity to leap over the 'Wow, whiz bang,' and to take things for granted."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Faulty Transmission: Power lines were not built to send electricity long distances. These weave over Bald Eagle Mountain in Williamsport, Pa. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (98%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (94%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER FAILURES (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); HISTORY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENGINEERING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Electric Light and Power; Power Lines; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



571 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK UP CLOSE; 
For Some Fitness Trainers, The Job Was Learned in Jail

BYLINE:  By JILL HAMBURG-COPLAN

 BODY:
HE was the best trainer that the 33-year-old medical researcher had ever found. A Queens street tough with a Sean Penn sort of look, he yelled like a drill sergeant, but knew when to pull back. He hadn't graduated from high school, but he held the top fitness qualifications. Club trainers typically keep less than half of what they bill, but at his club in Lower Manhattan he commanded $125 an hour. 
 This woman, a resident of Hudson Heights in northern Manhattan, had just ended a year filled with breakups, work problems and family crises, and he had helped her develop more stamina and strength than she thought possible. She likened her journey to that of Buck in "The Call of the Wild," the dog who, she said, "was starved, down in the snow and ready to die, when he adapted and became a wolf." 
 She often wondered how her trainer knew so much about survival and transformation. 
 Her answer came in a call one day from Rikers Island. It was her trainer, who had just been arrested on a parole violation, a D.W.I. charge outside a Long Island restaurant. He had previously served two sentences, for theft and aggravated assault, he said: all told, 13 of his 35 years. He would probably get three and a half years. 
 The subway may be where disparate New Yorkers come into the most physical contact, but for unlikely personal relationships, fitness training in the city holds the prize. Today, although their customers may not realize their pasts, ex-offenders are fitness trainers at sports clubs, city gyms and homes.
 "I know seven guys like this personally," said Edmond Taylor, senior employment coordinator at the Fortune Society, a Manhattan agency that helps ex-prisoners. Club managers and former inmates echo this remark. And Angie Wickstrom, a spokeswoman for the National Federation of Personal Trainers, said her group has certified 300 former inmates as trainers in New York State since 1996. Some, maybe quite a few, presumably work in the city. 
 In a city where no one has enough time to work out, it makes sense that personal trainers include many who have had all the time in the world for exercise. Former inmates pumped iron in the weight yard for three or four or more hours a day, to relieve stress and develop the strength to fend off attackers. Many studied physical fitness and, still behind bars, sat for reputable trainer licensing exams in anatomy, nutrition and physiology. 
 Not surprisingly, none interviewed would permit their real names to be used, fearing that disclosure would endanger their jobs and salaries that can run to $60,000 a year. 
 For the same reason, they often hide their past from clients and colleagues, even though state law makes it illegal to discriminate against convicts and some of these ex-inmates say that the skills they learned in jail are precisely what makes them good trainers. 
 "Prison made me a better person," said the medical researcher's trainer. (He weathered the D.W.I. arrest and has returned to work.) "It's made me who I am, and given me a knack for figuring people out."
 Still, these trainers must struggle daily with old habits and freedom's new challenges. The medical researcher's trainer says he is not fully at ease when he knows that a club member works in the criminal justice system. The uncertainty of commissions -- having no bookings two months in advance and credit card, liability insurance and mortgage bills coming in for the first time -- can bring bouts of terror. With him being that hungry, hunting for new clients on the gym floor can make him feel "like a shark in a guppy tank," he said. "I can act like a guy from the street, being manipulative."
 But mostly, he is upbeat. "Most people, I find, come to the gym very depressed," he said. "My clients are presidents of companies, walking in slumped over. I can turn their lives around because I've turned my life around."
 Another trainer and former prisoner, who is the top earner at a Midtown health club, is brimming with can-do attitude. At 4 a.m. one day earlier this year in his South Bronx home he was wide awake without an alarm -- a holdover, he said, from the prisoners' hours he kept for eight years. A health enthusiast, he downed a strawberry-banana protein shake, jogged to the subway and, before 6 a.m., unlocked the club. 
 "Aggressive is what he is," one male client said. "He won't take any nonsense. He's happy, he's cheery, he's intent on form, he lays on hands." 
 Though the trainer has worked at this club for several years, no one knows his real story. But, he said, "I don't dwell on the past. That person is gone."
 Do gym-goers care about not knowing a trainer's criminal past? If the trainer had been convicted only of a nonviolent drug offense -- many fit that category -- some clients interviewed said they would not mind. Yet many were disturbed at the possibility of unknowingly training with someone who had a violent past. 
 "It creeps me out," said Victoria Lessin, a filmmaker who lives in Brooklyn. "I'd want to know if a trainer has a conviction of violent crime. It would be hard to continue a relationship with someone on that intimate a level, making yourself very vulnerable. As long as you're in a public place, there's no real threat, but there would be a sense of psychological insecurity."
 Even the medical researcher, who wasn't upset to learn that her trainer had done time, said she was relieved he had not committedcertain offenses. "I wouldn't work with a rapist," she said, "and I'd have a problem with someone who'd committed crimes against children, or anything racially motivated." 
 How do fitness clubs treat the matter? One major New York club, Crunch Fitness, issued this statement: "Crunch Fitness has never had a specific program to recruit or rehabilitate individuals with prior criminal convictions. Like every employer in the state of New York, Crunch is required to consider all applicants including those with criminal convictions.
 "Both previously and today Crunch has considered candidates for employment that had a criminal conviction, as long as management was confident that the candidate and his/her background would not pose a risk to members or employees. As a result, some qualified candidates whose criminal backgrounds did not pose a risk to the safety and security of our members, employees or facilities, were hired by Crunch."
Crunch was bought by Bally Total Fitness in January 2002, and, the statement goes on to say, the acquired company "implemented a more rigorous system of background checks, which was already standard at Bally Total Fitness and still considers a candidate's total background and qualifications before hiring."
 SOME people in the business say ex-inmates often have the qualities needed to be trainers. "Think about it," said Antonio Sini, a personal training manager who has been at Crunch for seven years and now works at the center on Lafayette Street downtown. "This position is a hustler's job. You have to be able to go up to people and sell yourself, look the part, be fit, and be tough mentally and physically. To survive in the streets, you've got to be strong." 
 But a tough economy and regulatory changes are making job-hunting tougher for these potential trainers. 
 "It's a heartbreaker when someone is hungry, motivated and wants to rebuild a life," said JoAnn Page, executive director of the Fortune Society. "How do you get someone to gamble on you? To trust you? Who'll give that person a chance?"
 One answer is someone like the medical researcher. After getting the call from Rikers, she visited her trainer there (bringing a gift, "The Call of the Wild"), and so did other clients. Along with a manager of the gym, they began a letter-writing campaign on the trainer's behalf that led to his release after just four months, his record wiped clean. Since then, the trainer has been promoted, and his relationships with clients have deepened. 
 "He came over to my house for the Super Bowl," one client said. "He was into heavy conversation with my brother, who's a cardiologist."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); PRISONS (86%); CITY LIFE (86%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); MAMMALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); STARVATION (75%); WEIGHTLIFTING (73%); PAROLE (71%); SENTENCING (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Exercise; Prisons and Prisoners

COMPANY: CALL OF THE WILD INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (56%)

PERSON: Jill Hamburg-Coplan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



572 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Love Lincoln Center 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 My first job in New York was at Lincoln Center -- at the Juilliard School -- sending Juilliard students out to do concerts in New York City public schools. 
The job was fun and the office -- with a big picture window overlooking Broadway -- was glamorous, especially since my previous job had been teaching English in an inner city high school in Cleveland. Another thing that seemed wonderful to me was that you could get whatever you needed -- paper, pens, pencils -- from the supply room. In the school I had taught at, you had to beg for paper or buy it yourself. 
 Lincoln Center does seem a bit haggard now with two major constituents looking to abandon ship. The bursting of the stock market "bubble" certainly didn't help. Where have all the good philanthropists gone? But as a focal point for New York cultural and night life, Lincoln Center can't easily be displaced (or replaced).
 And the fountain is still a great place to meet. 

ELLEN FREILICH
Washington Heights

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%) Culture

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts (NYC); Juilliard School

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin; Ellen Freilich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



573 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
A Reboundfor the Dollar, but Maybe Not for Long

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE dollar has bounced back against the euro. It has climbed 9 percent since May 29, when it fell to its weakest level since the euro's introduction in 1999.
 The dollar's gain comes as new data shows America's economy rebounding, while Europe's is still weak. The sharp increase in interest rates and the stock market's resurgence have also made investments here more attractive to foreigners. 
 But American investors in Europe, whose second-quarter returns were buoyed by six percentage points when stronger euros were translated back into weaker dollars, should not despair.
Yes, third-quarter returns will be reduced by about six percentage points if the euro remains near its current level of $1.09, down from $1.15 at the end of the second quarter. But so far this year, the euro is still up nearly 4 percent against the dollar. That, coupled with a gain of 8.7 percent in Morgan Stanley Capital International's euro stock index through Friday, has given American investors a gain of 12.5 percent.
And analysts predict that the dollar's rebound will not last. Forecasts for the next 12 months have the euro rising in value to between $1.15 and $1.40.
"We have not changed our view that the euro will rally," said Kenneth Landon, senior currency strategist at Deutsche Bank, who is forecasting that the euro, over the next 6 to 12 months, will reach $1.20, just above its May high of $1.19.
That is a lot more of a currency bounce than American investors are getting in Asia, especially in Japan. The MSCI Japanese stock index is up 16 percent this year in yen terms and is up only a little more, 17 percent, in dollar terms because the dollar has barely slipped against the yen this year.
Japan has prevented a decline in the dollar like the one against the euro by intervening in the foreign exchange market. The Bank of Japan has sold trillions of yen to buy dollars because the government wants to keep the yen as weak as possible against the dollar. A weaker yen makes exports more competitive in the American market, helping the troubled Japanese economy.
Japan is also worried that its products will lose market share to the Chinese if the yen were much stronger against the dollar than the Chinese yuan.
Economists' main reason for the euro's rebound is the rise of America's current account deficit, which includes profits on investments as well as trade in goods and services with the rest of the world. Through the first quarter this year, the 12-month deficit was a record $510 billion -- and it is growing.
That deficit must be offset by money from abroad. If those foreign inflows slow or the deficit keeps growing, the dollar will weaken, and interest rates will have to rise to attract more foreign money.
The main question is this: How much will the current account deficit affect the dollar?
David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, says the growth comparison between the United States and Europe favors the dollar now, because Germany, Italy and France are in decline. But as the American economy grows, the current account deficit may widen, increasing the need for foreign investment. But there is a risk that the inflow will not be robust enough. So, he says, "It may not take much to get the markets focused back on the current account deficit." He predicts that the euro will rise as high as $1.40 in the next year.
ROBERT SINCHE, global head of currency strategy at Citigroup, is less worried. He agrees that the current account deficit is a drag on the dollar. But signs show that the flows from abroad are strengthening, he contends. He points to an important increase in the buying of corporate bonds and stocks over the last year.
According to Treasury data though June, the 12-month net foreign purchases of American stocks and bonds totaled $697 billion, up from $585 billion for the 12 months ended in March, when the current account deficit topped $500 billion.
"That matters," he says, predicting that the dollar will fall and the euro will rebound, but probably only to $1.15.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Bigger Appetite"Foreign purchases of American stocks and bonds are rebounding, a trend that could reduce the downward pressure on the dollar. Graph tracks net foreign purchases of U.S. stocks and bonds from January 2002 through June 2003. (12-month totals as of each month) (Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BONDS (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (65%) Currency; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (78%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



574 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: Big Bang Theory; 
The Terror Industry Fields Its Ultimate Weapon

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
FROM Jerusalem to Jakarta and from Bali to Baghdad, the suicide bomber is clearly the weapon of choice for international terrorists. Terrorist groups now rely almost exclusively on this tactic to carry out their attacks.
 As the devastating attacks on civilians in Jerusalem and Baghdad last week demonstrated, suicide bombings have become a grimly efficient terrorist industry. The industry is flourishing worldwide; bomb-makers are in especially high demand. 
 Pioneered by Hezbollah in southern Lebanon two decades ago and adopted as a routine tool by Hamas and Al Qaeda -- most notably in the attacks in New York and Washington two years ago -- the suicide bombing campaign was adopted in recent months in Iraq, where a truck bombing at the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last Tuesday may turn out to be terrorism sponsored by the sympathizers of a deposed state. 
Of the terrorism industry's two raw materials -- bombs and people -- people are far easier to come by. In the militant corners of the Muslim world, signing up for such a mission infuses the volunteer with an urgent purpose and the promise of glory. It seems unlikely that the bombs will ever outnumber the people eager to deliver them.
Ismail Abu Shanab, the prominent Hamas leader who was killed Thursday by six missiles fired from an Israeli helicopter into his station wagon, was asked in 1999 why so many people were eager to serve as suicide bombers. He said there was only one thing a person needs to qualify: "A moment of courage."
"The person who explodes a bomb does not need a lot of training," Mr. Shanab told Jessica Stern, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and the author of "Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill," during a 1999 interview in Gaza.
A person using a knife, Mr. Shanab explained, is usually "nervous." A gun takes intensive training, and too much time. Knife and gun attacks also depend on a degree of luck. Things can go wrong. But asuicide bomber, to be a success, only needs that single moment of courage, Mr. Shanab said, which he found was in abundant supply in Gaza. Young men and women who carried out such missions had usually seen what they viewed as "something terrible, some kind of atrocity," he said. "Islam says, 'an eye for an eye.' We believe in retaliation. When someone is killed in jihad, it is a joyful day." His assessment led Ms. Stern to conclude that suicide bombers are a terrorist organization's most economically viable way to conduct its bloody business. "It's certainly cost-effective," Ms. Stern said, "both financially and in terms of the number of terrorist lives ultimately put at risk." 
The Palestinians' suicide bombings -- there have been more than 100 since the intifada began in November 2000 -- have become so systemized that the infrastructure that supports the attacks, like the recruiters, the bomb laboratories and the delivery systems, is typically not just accepted but embraced.
"The fact that they've been able to sustain the tactic suggests that this tactic is applauded in the community, and it reflects a society under considerable stress," said Brian Jenkins, a terrorism expert with the RAND Corporation. "I think we'd all agree, and it's not just a Western view, that suicide bombing is abnormal. The fact that abnormal behavior is applauded reflects abnormal conditions. If normal conditions are restored, then normal behavior should return -- at least they'd be less tolerant of abnormal behavior." Similar abnormality was seen during World War II when kamikaze pilots volunteered to sacrifice themselves to strike against their nation's enemy.
In the 21st century, terrorists may well have embraced the suicide bomb attack because of its devastating psychological effects -- the result of random and gruesome violence against noncombatants -- and because they have become convinced that these attacks command attention and change.
"It's the ultimate asymmetric weapon," explained Magnus Ranstorp, director of the Center for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St. Andrews. "You can assimilate among the people, and then attack with an element of surprise that has an incredible and devastating shock value."
Without weapons of mass destruction, a single terrorist can create a disproportionate impact by detonating a bomb -- whether the result is crumpling the road map to Mideast peace or undermining American efforts to win the peace in Iraq.
Twenty years ago, for example, on April 18, 1983, Americans were stunned by a Shiite Muslim suicide bomber, who attacked the United States Embassy in Beirut and killed 63 people. On Oct. 23, 1983, 241 Marines, asleep in their barracks during a peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, were killed by another suicide truck bomber. By early the next year, the Marines had left Lebanon.
For Al Qaeda and its affiliated groups, whose suicide bombing attacks stretch back a decade, the suicide truck-bomb has been used almost exclusively in recent months, usually against what investigators call "soft targets," like the Western housing compounds in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the tourist enclaves in Casablanca and the J. W. Marriott Hotel in downtown Jakarta, Indonesia.
In the terrorism world, imitation is inevitable, and there is a widespread belief among terrorists that the suicide bombings are working.
"Suicide attacks have become the benchmark of commitment for terrorists," Mr. Jenkins said. "It affects the whole world of terrorism because there is an imitative quality in terrorism."
As Mr. Shanab obviously realized, one appeal for terrorists is an illusion of empowerment.
In the United States, the motives of the suicide bomber are often misunderstood.
"It is the general consensus that martyrs hate democracy, and are crazies -- this is not true," said Scott Atran, a scientist at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris and at the University of Michigan. "These people showed no sign of psycho pathology. They were from middle and upper class families. Poverty is not a factor. The factor is diminishing expectations. No matter how rich or poor, if you have not achieved what you expected, you are more likely to back a radical policy."
In fact, the surge in suicide bombings may be fueled by a more simple motivation. 
A suicide attack is a certain way to be honored by your society, while a family is also rewarded monetarily.
"In an instant," said Mr. Ranstorp, "you are propelled from being no one to someone who is glorified, and lionized with poems, and you live on in this historical chain of heroic martyrs, being remembered and saluted far longer than if you had not undertaken this kind of operation."
Nearly a century before the advent of the suicide bombers, the original terrorists, based in what is now Iran, were known as the Assassins, led by Hasan-I Sabah, the group's founder. They committed political murder by stabbing the victim at close range; such attacks made it almost certain that the killer would also die. These assassins were among the first killers to be hailed in death as heroes.
Last Tuesday night, for the first time, a suicide bomber was an imam from one of Hebron's largest mosques, a religious 29-year-old man who had memorized the Koran by age 16. He was also a married man, the father of two young children, who climbed aboard a Jerusalem bus crowded with families, some returning from the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site. Strapped to the man's chest was a roughly 12-pound bomb, fortified with ball bearings and nails.
He must have seen the children riding with their parents on the bus before detonating the bomb, which ripped off the vehicle's roof, killing 20 people and injuring more than 100. The man was a lecturer on Islamic law at Hebron's Sharia College, and was studying to become a Muslim magistrate. 
He did not fit the profile of a suicide bomber, who is usually an unmarried man between the ages of 18 and 25.
Just a few hours earlier, a suicide bomber detonated a flat-bed truck piled with 1,500 pounds of old munitions outside the United Nations headquarters in downtown Baghdad. 
The authorities now believe that loyalists of former President Saddam Hussein were likely responsible for the attack that killed at least 23 people, including the United Nations' highest-ranking official in Iraq. 
Both blasts had immediate, and possibly long-lasting, impacts, threatening the ever-fragile peace process between Israel and the Palestinians and the security of American forces and international peacekeepers stationed inside Iraq.
During Hezbollah's attacks in southern Lebanon 20 years ago, the group's members shot film of the attacks, and handed the grisly images to television, so they could be broadcast within hours. Those first films became recruitment videos, aired for free.
"For every suicide bomber," Mr. Ranstorp said, "there are five who want to follow their example." 
Like some of the Sept. 11 hijackers, the imam left behind a videotape explaining his reasons for becoming a suicide bomber. Other bombers have posed for studio portraits before blowing themselves up.
Mr. Ranstorp worries that the next phase of suicide bombings will involve not just bombers posing for posterity but the videotaping of attacks. He worries that satellite channels will air the horrible moments almost instantly to a future generation of suicide bombers.
"They learned from the psychological impact of 9/11, the horrible moment being replayed over and over," he said. "Someday, terrorists will be armed with bombs and cameras."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about suicide bombers misstated the period in which the Assassins, a murderous group of terrorists, operated in what is now Iran. The group was founded in the 11th century, nearly a millennium before the advent of modern suicide bombers, not nearly a century before.
An article on Aug. 24 about suicide bombers misstated the starting date of the latest Palestinian intifada, or uprising. It emerged from protests over a September 2000 visit by Ariel Sharon (who has since become prime minister) to the holy site in Jerusalem known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as Haram al Sharif. It did not begin in November 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Japanese kamikaze pilot ties on the honorary ribbons for a World War II suicide mission (top); a solitary anarchist prepares a crude bomb in a 1908 drawing. (Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images); (Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images); Raed Abdul Hamid Misk posed with his children Sama, left, age 2 and Momen, age 3, days before he blew himself up on a bus in Jerusalem. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); HAMAS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RELIGION (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%) Terrorism; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); AL-QAEDA (57%); HEZBOLLAH (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: Don Jr Van Natta

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (92%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



575 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: After Decades, Russia Narrows Grounds for Abortions 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Hesitantly and with little public debate, Russia has increased its restrictions on abortion for the first time in nearly half a century.
 Russia's abortion regulations remain permissive -- there are still no limits on abortions in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy -- but the new restrictions appear to reflect the first stirrings of a wider debate here over the morality of abortion, as well as the effect abortions are having on women's health and on the demographic future of Russia. 
 Ever since 1955, when the Soviet Union lifted a ban that had been imposed by Stalin in 1936, abortion here has been a common and widely accepted means of birth control, giving Russia one of the highest abortion rates in the world.
The collapse of the Soviet Union and with it the increased availability of contraceptives has resulted in a substantial decline in abortions in Russia -- from a high of 4.6 million in 1988 to 1.7 million last year. But now the Ministry of Health, under pressure from conservative lawmakers, has decided to reduce the number further through government-imposed restrictions on what has effectively been free and virtually unlimited access to abortion. 
Before the new restrictions, which took effect on Aug. 11, women could receive an abortion between the 12th and 22nd weeks of their pregnancies by citing one of 13 special circumstances called "social indicators," including divorce, poverty, unemployment or poor housing.
The government's decision has reduced thenumber to four: rape, imprisonment, the death or severe disability of the husband or a court ruling stripping a woman of her parental rights. Being a single mother or a refugee is no longer reason enough to abort a pregnancy after the 12th week.
As before, pregnancies can still be aborted after 12 weeks on medical grounds, including severe disabilities of the fetus or a threat to the mother's life.
Considering how emotionally and politically charged the abortion issue is in America and other countries, the reaction to the government's decision -- announced with little fanfare in Russia's equivalent of the Federal Register -- has been strikingly subdued.
But some lawmakers and leaders of the Russian Orthodox Church have welcomed the change and vowed to continue fighting for greater restrictions through new legislation. That has raised concerns among some doctors and the Russia Family Planning Association that a woman's right to an abortion -- basically a given here -- could soon be curtailed.
"It's a first step," said Aleksandr C. Chuyev, a member of the lower house of Parliament, who introduced legislation earlier this year to ban all abortions after the 12th week and then took part in negotiations with the Ministry of Health on drafting the new restrictions.
He welcomed the restrictions, characterizing them as a compromise. He said he planned to sponsor a new bill this fall, during the campaign for parliamentary elections, that would give a human fetus the same rights as a child.
"Maybe then women will think more before they have an abortion," he said.
The nascent debate over abortion here has been influenced by a variety of factors, including the resurgence of religion and the growing influence of the Russian Orthodox Church after 70 years of official atheism under Soviet rule.
Russia's demographic crisis has also led to demands that steps be taken to reverse the declining population trend. Though the country's birth rate rose last year -- to 9.8 births per 1,000 people from 9.1 the year before -- the population over all is projected to continue to decline. For every 10 births in Russia, there are still nearly 13 abortions.
Few are calling for an outright ban on abortions, even within the church, said Archpriest Vsevolod Chaplin, a spokesman for Patriarch Aleksy II. But the voices against abortion are growing. "I think this debate will continue on the political level," he said.
Anatoly A. Korsunsky, the Health Ministry's chief of maternity and childhood health, said in an interview that the new restrictions had been carefully weighed, taking into account the risks abortions carry for a woman's health. Abortions in the later stages of pregnancy and repeated abortions, which are common here, pose the greatest risks to fertility and health generally, he said.
He acknowledged, though, that the decision was also influenced by what he called "the social aspect" of allowing virtually unlimited access to abortion.
Of the 1.7 million abortions in 2002, 40,000 were carried out under one of the 13 indicators. He said that limiting the circumstances under which these abortions would be allowed was not intended to force women to continue with unwanted pregnancies, but rather to encourage them to avoid abortions in the first place through traditional family planning and birth control.
"The adherence to a wide range of social indicators for abortion has given the impression to the public that it is easy to get an abortion at any stage of pregnancy," he said. "It lowers the responsibility of a woman for her reproductive health, her general health and the health of her children."
The list of social indicators has been in place since the Soviet government adopted them in 1987. At that time, they served the purpose of significantly expanding access to abortion after the 12th week.
Yuri M. Bloshansky, Moscow's chief gynecologist for the past 40 years, said the government did so at that time in large part to address the risks posed by women seeking illegal abortions, often in unsafe conditions.
"I remember vividly those women dying, forced to go anywhere else, going to swindlers operating in septic conditions," he said. "I don't want to see a repetition again."
Within the Ministry of Health, there was considerable debate over how many of the indicators should remain. Dr. Bloshansky, who helped write the regulations in 1987, opposed the new limits as unnecessary to reduce the number of abortions, given the steady decline that has already occurred. He appealed, unsuccessfully, to leave the social indicators in place.
In June, the ministry announced that it was considering reducing the number to three. Mr. Chuyev said that in negotiations he had been told only two would remain -- rape and the loss of parental rights, which a court usually decides on the grounds of mental illness or drug addiction.
In the end, the ministry settled on preserving four, though the number includes a statistical sleight of hand that underscored the government's sensitivity to the perception that it was reducing the number as much as possible.
Death and disability of a husband, which had been counted as separate circumstances in the old list, were combined in the new list, meaning in reality that five of the previous conditions remain codified in the new list of four. 
Inga I. Grebesheva, director of the Russia Family Planning Association, said her organization did not vigorously object to the new regulations since they would not greatly affect a woman's access to abortion.
She expressed concern, however, that the government's decision reflected the beginning of a trend in which the church and conservative lawmakers would seek to wield greater influence over public policy on moral grounds. She noted that Parliament voted in 1998 to eliminate federal financing for family-planning clinics, though city and regional governments have since continued many of the services.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A doctor recently counseled a patient about abortion in Yekaterinburg, Russia. The government has issued new regulations about abortions. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (96%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); FAMILY LAW (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); RELIGION (60%) Abortion; Population; Birth Control and Family Planning; Abortion

PERSON: Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



576 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Quieter Lives for 60's Militants, but Intensity of Beliefs Hasn't Faded 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
When explosives accidentally demolished a Greenwich Village town house 33 years ago, three young militants inside were killed, leaving two of their comrades to stagger out and into clandestine life. All were members of the Weathermen, a violent offshoot of 1960's radicalism.
 One of the survivors, Kathy Boudin, was granted parole last week for her role in a 1981 armored car robbery that left a Brink's guard and two police officers dead. 
 The Boudin case was a compelling reminder of a turbulent era. But the other woman who escaped serves as another reminder, of how a once revolutionary band has dispersed into the rhythms of quieter lives and more peaceful, but not always more remorseful, idealism. 
The woman, Cathy Wilkerson, lives in Brooklyn. The mother of a grown daughter, she has spent the past two decades teaching mathematics in high schools and adult education programs. 
Many former Weathermen have taken up careers that they see as an extension of their political commitment: teaching, social work and advocating causes like environmental protection, care for AIDS patients and prisoners' rights. Today they proclaim the same ideals they held four decades ago, and sharply condemn American policies at home and abroad. 
"They sustain certain kinds of ideological and ethical commitments into their lives beyond the armed struggle," said Jeremy Varon, an assistant professor of history at Drew University in Madison, N.J.
Members of the Weathermen began resurfacing in the late 1970's after the group dissolved in 1976. Ms. Wilkerson emerged from hiding and surrendered to the authorities in 1980. She spent 11 months in jail on explosives charges in the explosion of the town house, on West 11th Street, which was owned by her father. 
Now, she said, she is working on her memoirs, part of a new round of exploration of the Weather Underground, as it was later called by its leaders who found the original name sexist. Professor Varon is writing his own book about the group, which was the subject of "The Weather Underground," a well-received documentary film that opened in June.
In a telephone interview on Friday, Ms. Wilkerson said it was the first time she had spoken to a reporter in about 20 years.
"I'm re-entering the conversation," she said. "There are enormous problems that we predicted in the 60's, around the environment, about the wartime economy and permanent states of war, and there's a real crisis of leadership about those issues. Talking about patriotism is a way of distracting people as the world lumbers toward catastrophe."
Speaking in guarded tones, Ms. Wilkerson would not discuss the explosion, saying she wanted to save it for her book. But she did say that the Weather Underground's legacy of violence must be seen in the context of the times. 
"We were way not the first," she said. "It was a mass phenomenon. In 1969, national liberation was sweeping the world and looked like it was going to be the main vehicle for ushering in popular governments. Now the wave of violence sweeping the world is reactionary."
Like other former members, she said the movement made "mistakes," adding, "We were all young, under 25 for the most part." 
Conservative critics, including Prof. Harvey Klehr, the Andrew W. Mellon professor of politics and history at Emory University in Atlanta, have little patience for that view. "It would behoove people like that who did illegal, morally reprehensible things to have some sense of remorse," he said. 
Professor Klehr also took a dim view of the often stated account that after the town house explosion, the Weathermen resolved to take no lives, and that in the string of bombings that followed, no one was seriously injured. He points out that members have said the explosives at the town house were intended for an officers' dance at Fort Dix in New Jersey and for Butler Library at Columbia University. 
"The only reason they were not guilty of mass murder is mere incompetence," he said. "I don't know what sort of defense that is."
The Weathermen -- who took their name from the Bob Dylan lyric "You don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows" -- originated as a faction of Students for a Democratic Society. 
The leaders came from reasonably well-off families, though several interviewed said a common portrait of them as privileged children of the rich was a caricature. Charismatic and articulate, they employed revolutionary jargon, advocated armed struggle and black liberation and began bombing buildings, taking responsibility for at least 20 attacks. Estimates of their number ranged at times from several dozen to several hundred.
Their revolutionary language pursues them to this day, including the phrase attributed to Bill Ayers, a Weathermen founder, to "kill all the rich people." Then there were the words of Bernardine Dohrn, another founder, who seemed to delight in the Manson family murders before a Students for a Democratic Society crowd in 1969. (She has since said it was a joke.)
Mr. Ayers is distinguished professor of education at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Ms. Dohrn, his wife, teaches law at Northwestern University and is director of its Children and Family Justice Center. Together they raised Ms. Boudin's only child, her son, Chesa Boudin, who graduated from Yale in June and is a Rhodes scholar. 
Mr. Ayers returned to the public eye two years ago with the publication of a book, "Fugitive Days," about his life as a Weatherman. And while they have been among the most outspoken members of the group, the couple would not be interviewed because, they said, they did not want to jeopardize Ms. Boudin's pending release. For the same reason, other former members also said they did not want to talk publicly, or limited their comments. 
Four defendants in the Brink's case, two of them the former Weather Underground members Judith Clark and David J. Gilbert, are serving life prison terms with parole not scheduled for another half-century. 
Another significant figure in the Weathermen was Jeff Jones, one of a group of Ms. Boudin's friends and supporters who lobbied for her parole. A former reporter for an alternative newspaper, he is now communications director for an environmental lobbying group in Albany. He said he felt "absolute horror at the idiocy" of the Bush administration. In Iraq, he said, the president "has gone down the path of Vietnam."
"We are now in a guerrilla war on foreign soil," Mr. Jones said.
Linda S. Evans, who was granted clemency by President Bill Clinton for convictions related to bombings and released from prison in 2001 after serving nearly 16 years, lives in Santa Rosa, Calif. She received a Soros criminal justice fellowship from the Open Society Institute and works to restore civil rights to felons. "I'm trying to make things better in our society," she said in a telephone interview. "I just feel really strongly that the policies of our government are just anti-human at every level."
Mark Rudd, the Students for a Democratic Society leader from Columbia, teaches mathematics at the Albuquerque Technical Vocational Institute, a community college. He, too, has called the group's violence a "terrible mistake."
An early organizer, Jonathan Lerner, wrote an article for The Washington Post Magazine last year about his Weathermen days in which he denounced the group as a "cult of leftist cynicism and violence" whose members amounted to "political terrorists."
For most Weathermen, he wrote in the article, "the legal consequences were negligible."
"We came to in a daze," he wrote. "We crawled off to lick our wounds, learn to be responsible grown-ups -- hard work, for the inexperienced -- and come to terms with what we had done." 
Brian Flanagan, who was acquitted of assault and attempted murder charges stemming from the 1969 "Days of Rage" violence that surrounded the Chicago Eight trial, owns a bar, the Night Cafe on the Upper West Side, which was the setting for several interviews filmed for the recent documentary "The Weather Underground," which was directed by Sam Green and Bill Siegel.
The film revived contacts among former members, Mr. Flanagan said, and prompted him and others to open up about the past in interviews and public forums. He said he recently met up with Ms. Wilkerson in the bar, which has become what he called "definitely a lefty bar." 
"There were a lot of things I had trouble coming to terms with over the years, and this has resurrected them," Mr. Flanagan said of the documentary which, he said, portrayed him as more rueful than he felt.
"I was regretful over about 5 percent of what we did," he said. "I think 95 percent of what we did was great, and we'd do it again." 
And what was the 5 percent? The town house, Mr. Flanagan said. When pressed, he said he regretted both the deaths of the three Weathermen -- Ted Gold, Diana Oughton and Terry Robbins -- and the plan to bomb the dance at Fort Dix and the library at Columbia, which could have taken lives.
And life outside politics? "I run my business," he said. "I shoot pool, I drink wine. I'm old and fat." He also mentioned winning $23,000 as a contestant on "Jeopardy!"
"God bless America," Mr. Flanagan said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference in 1969 were members of the Weathermen, from left, Ted Gold, who died the following year in an explosion in a town house; Bernardine Dohrn; and Kathy Boudin, a survivor of the explosion. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HISTORY (78%); PAROLE (77%); WEATHER (77%); PRISONS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); POLITICS (72%); ETHICS (72%); ROBBERY (72%); AIDS & HIV (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); INTERVIEWS (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (50%) United States Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Weather Underground

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin; Cathy Wilkerson; Jeff Jones; Jonathan Lerner; Mark Rudd; Brian Flanagan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



577 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: As State Colleges Cut Classes, Students Struggle to Finish 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The moment registration opens, Michele D. Hannah dives for courses with the fury of a fifth-year college student vexed by a constant riddle.
 "When will I get the classes I need to graduate?" said Ms. Hannah, Class of "I have no idea" at the University of Iowa. 
 Classes have gotten so tight, or so scarce, that Ms. Hannah says she trolls the university's Web site like a day trader, checking every few hours for the stray course opening that might suddenly appear. 
But it probably will not. At many public universities, grappling with record budget cuts and enrollments at the same time, the classroom is no longer being spared. After whittling away at staff, coaxing faculty members to juggle more classes, stripping sports teams and trusting aging roofs to hold out a few years longer, many public universities have reluctantly begun chopping away at academics, making it harder for students to graduate on time.
The University of Illinois has canceled 1,000 classes on hundreds of subjects this year. Up to 1,000 students at the University of North Carolina will be shut out of beginning Spanish. The University of Colorado has eliminated academic programs in journalism, business and engineering. The University of California has put off opening an entire campus.
Virginia Tech is scrapping an education major and suspending mandatory history classes because it does not have enough professors to lead them. The University of Nebraska is canceling Portuguese, closing agricultural research laboratories and off-site classrooms, shedding exercise science, paring Russian and museum studies. Rutgers is pruning the arts and sciences. 
The University of Missouri has reduced the number of class time slots across the board, cut its teacher training program in half, eliminated a nursing degree and trimmed international studies. The University of Michigan will nearly double the size of some classes, shorten library hours and offer fewer freshman seminars. At the California State University, up to 30,000 students will be turned away come spring.
"The academic cuts are probably the most severe I've seen," said Edward M. Elmendorf, an assistant secretary of education in the Reagan administration and now a senior vice president at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. "And I don't see any mitigation in them in the coming year."
Universities have taken pains to trim in the least harmful ways, shearing courses or majors in hopes of leaving the academic core intact. Still, the budget cuts, more than 10 percent of state appropriations in some cases, have been too great not to take their toll. 
"There is no doubt that we're at a stage where the quality of the educational experience is less than it was two years ago, five years ago, and certainly less than what we set for our standards," said Robert N. Shelton, provost of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "I'm not crying wolf. In pockets, it's definitely the case."
What this means for students will vary from campus to campus, even from major to major. Yet one of the most common academic cuts has been a reduction in the number of course sections offered -- that is, how many times a class is taught in a given semester or year. While the course may not be eliminated, its accessibility often suffers, leading to what some worry is an inevitable consequence. 
"It will influence students' ability to graduate on time," said Larry D. Roper, vice provost for student affairs at Oregon State University.
This is especially true because so many students are working to pay for their educations, making their schedules tight. When classes are not offered frequently enough throughout the week, it becomes increasingly difficult for them to attend, and therefore to graduate on time. 
Making matters worse, college officials say, the more tuition rises to keep public campuses afloat during troubled economic times, the more students will end up working to pay it, only heightening the obstacles to a degree. "If I didn't worry about that I would be irresponsible," said George W. Breslauer, dean of social sciences at the University of California at Berkeley. 
It is hard to overstate the passion that tuition increases and academic pruning have elicited on campuses. More than 1,000 members of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars, an organization of college honor students, responded by e-mail or telephone to a reporter's query seeking comment on the situation, and most expressed irritation and anxiety.
"It frustrates me, even makes me angry, to know that my parents are paying more and more for an education which is giving me less and less," said Valerie Szybala, a third-year student at Virginia Tech, encapsulating many students' sentiments.
"They have a point," said Chester S. Gardner, vice president for academic affairs at the University of Illinois. "The quality of education has been impacted yet the cost is going up. You can't debate that. That's just a fact."
Even seemingly ancillary cuts, students said, can be costly.
Andrew M. Fields thinks about little else than his beloved track and field team at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., often spending more time in the weight room than with his girlfriend in an effort to earn the athletic scholarship that has been his goal since elementary school. With no warning, though, the university decided this summer to eliminate the team to save money, and now Mr. Fields's hopes for a scholarship are as distant as his best hammer throw. 
"The boat's sunk," said Mr. Fields, a 270-pound shot-putter who worked overnight shifts in a baby-wipe factory to raise as much tuition money as he could. Now he wonders where he will get the rest. "It doesn't look too good."
For their part, universities are scrambling to keep valued faculty members. Confronted with bigger class loads, less time for research, fewer administrative aides, less money for graduate assistants and salary freezes, tenured professors are vowing to leave -- and occasionally making good on their threats.
"It still looks good from the road but, oh Lord, there's a lot of suffering inside," said Chris Hart, a spokesman for the University System of Maryland, which has been struggling to retain faculty. "Professors are saying, 'You can't support my research, so I'm taking it elsewhere.' "
Their departure, or even their increased teaching time, can have a domino effect, college officials say, because universities are so heavily dependent on the research grants professors secure from industry and government.
"It is a tremendous cash cow," said Fred J. Antczak, associate dean for academic programs at the University of Iowa, noting that the university takes in $350 million in research money each year. "If we start getting hurt on those figures, I don't know how we stay solvent." 
Of equal concern, some large public universities are planning to reduce enrollment in the coming years or to keep it stagnant, despite a projected boom in the college-age population over the next decade.
"For the last 40 years, we've always said to high school students that if you work hard, there will be a place for you somewhere in the system," said Brad Hayward, a spokesman for the University of California, which usually grows by about 8,000 students a year. Next fall, though, it will receive no extra state money to do so. "This begins to call that promise into question."
Beyond working multiple jobs, commuting for hours to save on housing and spending their summers in class to graduate as quickly as possible, students have come up with what Robert Kellman, a sophomore at the University of Michigan, calls "unique ways of circumventing the system." 
Though painting porches all summer was more lucrative than Mr. Kellman had expected, he said he hardly made enough to cover the $15,000 or so he owes as an out-of-state student each semester. So, he said, he is planning to spend his junior year abroad, not at university-sanctioned programs that may cost as much but at cheaper foreign colleges -- perhaps in Egypt, or maybe in England -- where he can earn the same credits for less. 
"My hand was kind of forced because of the money," he said.
Dennis Linders, a senior at the University of Florida, is taking a similar tack, though for different reasons. He is so frustrated by how hard it is to find courses that he is abandoning campus this spring, leaving behind the revelry of his final semester, Mr. Linders said, just to find classes -- in the Netherlands. 
"Sure it may cost a bit more, but at least I'll have more freedom in taking classes I want," he said. He is tired, he said, of having to "settle for whatever is left on the table."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Kellman, a sophomore at the University of Michigan, says he has come up with "unique ways" to save tuition money. (Photo by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times); Andrew Fields lost his track team and his hopes for a scholarship. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HISTORY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TRACK & FIELD (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (64%); SPORTS (54%); SPORTS & RECREATION (54%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; States (US); Teachers and School Employees; Enrollment; Wages and Salaries; Research; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%)

PERSON: Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



578 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE RECONSTRUCTION; 
Chaos and Calm Are 2 Realities For U.S. in Iraq

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: DIWANIYA, Iraq, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
As the area around Baghdad endured a week of repeated violence, a happier scene unfolded in this city, a two-hour drive to the south.
 American soldiers, without helmets or flak jackets, attended graduation ceremonies of the Diwaniya University Medical School. At ease with the Iraqi students and their parents, the American marines laughed, joked and posed in photographs. One by one, the students walked up to thank them, for Marine doctors had taught classes in surgery and gynecology and helped draw up the final exams. 
 "We like the Americans very much here," said Zainab Khaledy, 22, who received her medical degree last Sunday. "We feel better than under the old regime. We have problems, like security, but everything is getting better." 
Such is the dual reality that is coming to define the American enterprise in Iraq, a country increasingly divided between those willing to put up with the American occupation and those determined to fight it. While the areas stretching west and north from Baghdad roil and burn, much of the rest of the country remains, most of the time, remarkably calm. On Saturday, three British soldiers were killed in the south, in Basra. Page 12. 
Rather than fight the Americans, most Iraqis appear to be readily accepting the benefits of a wide-ranging reconstruction. 
The two faces of the occupation give American policy makers something to take solace in and something to worry over. Four months into the occupation, the rebellion against American forces, though fierce, is still largely limited to the Arab Sunni Muslim population and its foreign supporters and confined to a relatively limited geographic area. 
In much of the rest of the country, in places like Diwaniya and Mosul and Amara, American and British soldiers are finding a population that has, at least for now, made a fragile and tentative peace with the occupation. Violence still breaks out but increasingly in broad regions it no longer seems the norm.
In the north, the Kurds, long the beneficiaries of American protection, count themselves as America's most enthusiastic supporters. In the south, the country's Shiite majority, while restive and suspicious, has largely chosen to go along for now. 
"I don't accept the definition of a country in chaos," L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator, said this month. "Most of this country is at peace." 
But the violence in and around the capital, and the growing incidence of terrorism, seen in the suicide-bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, pose a grave threat to the American rebuilding plan. Both undercut the establishment of democratic rule, and make the Americans less confident about handing over political power to the Iraqis. 
With the capital under threat of attacks, the Iraqi Governing Council, the 25-member body ultimately expected to assume the reins of power, has increasingly conducted its business behind the marble walls of the presidential palace -- away from danger, but away from the people. 
The atmosphere in Diwaniya is far different. The 2,300 marines based here move freely about the city, tossing candy to the children, waving back to the parents. Not a single marine in Diwaniya has been lost to hostile fire since their arrival in April. There is not even a curfew.
"This is not Baghdad," said Lt. Col. Patrick Malay, who commands a force of about 950 marines in Diwaniya. "The Iraqis love us here." 
By any standard, Diwaniya is fraught with problems, many left over from the war. Deprived of electricity and bottled oxygen, the ward for premature babies at the children's and maternity hospital here has all but collapsed, and doctors say that babies are dying at a higher rate than before. The shortage of electricity has led to the closing of the local textile mill and tire factory, which employed hundreds. 
Recent outbreaks of rioting here have shown that Diwaniya residents are impatient with the pace of progress and suspicious of the occupiers. Two recent demonstrations, one involving a failure to pay Iraqi laborers working on an American project, and the other a protest against the local governor, turned momentarily violent. The demonstrations, each involving a couple of hundred people, were dispersed. 
"Are they going to pay us or not?" asked Asad Joda, who said he had worked for two weeks without being paid. "Every day I come here, and they tell me, come back tomorrow, come back tomorrow." 
But for a city emerging from three decades of neglect and dictatorship, Diwaniya in many ways seems remarkably stable. For instance, there is none of the virulent anti-American graffiti that marks walls and alleyways across Baghdad. 
So far, most of the anger shown here has not been directed at Americans. With hundreds of thousands of dollars pouring into the area, the city and its surrounding areas are rapidly being restored and in some cases improved. 
Since April, groups of marines have been fanning out across Qadisiya Province to oversee an array of projects intended to revive the local economy, its government and education systems, while putting Iraqis back to work.
In interviews, Marine commanders rattled off a list of local projects: 86 schools renovated; the police station, courthouse and jail reopened. Some 2,500 police officers, many of them graduates of a one-week human rights course, patrol the streets. Hundreds of local men earn $15 a week clearing weeds from local irrigation canals. 
The marines are even able to go beyond immediate postwar needs and move toward strengthening the civil society. They are supervising construction of a women's shelter here, and they make regular deliveries to a local nursing home. They have even set up a Rotary Club.
"We are in lock-sync with the Iraqis," Colonel Malay said. "We want what they want." 
It is difficult to judge the lasting impact of the reconstruction projects. The new coat of paint on the Dar Al Salam primary school makes the place look brand new. While the electricity flows erratically, some residents said they were getting more now than before the war. 
Anecdotally, the efforts of the marines sometimes appear to be succeeding exactly as the policy makers in Washington intended. 
"Every morning, I come to work with a passion to serve my country," said Aladeen Muhammad Abdul Hamza, who took a job in the new Iraqi police force. Mr. Hamza, a former officer in the Iraqi Army, is being paid $60 a month. 
One day last week, Mr. Hamza scurried about the grounds outside the old textile mill, where hundreds of Iraqis employed in the weed-clearing had come to get paid. He did his best to keep order. "I know all about human rights," he said.
Even when things do not go especially well in Diwaniya, there seems to be a reservoir of good will. Much of it apparently stems from the historical predations suffered by the Shiite people at the hands of Saddam Hussein. Many in Diwaniya lost relatives and friends to agents of Mr. Hussein, and they have not forgotten. 
Hassan Naji, a records clerk at the Diwaniya children's hospital, is critical of recent changes but only up to a point. Like many at the hospital, he is convinced that newborns are dying needlessly because the hospital lacks the electricity to run its sterile ward for premature babies. Before the war, an emergency line kept the electricity flowing. 
Mr. Naji could produce few records on the recent infant deaths, attributing the inability to the new freedom brought by the Americans. 
"Democracy has ruined this hospital," he said, sifting through uncollated notes and jottings. "In the past, people really worked at their jobs, if only because they were terrified of their supervisors. We kept the most accurate records. We had weekly meetings on the worst cases. 
"Now, with all this freedom, no one cares anymore," he said. "We don't keep records anymore." 
For all of that, Mr. Naji said, he would not pine for the days of Saddam Hussein. "Never," he said. "The Americans did a great thing when they got rid of that tyrant. Things could even get worse here and I would still feel that way." 
"Believe me," Mr. Naji added, "most of the people in Diwaniya would feel that way." 
The Americans could only wish that their welcome in Diwaniya was reproduced in towns like Tikrit, Ramadi and Falluja, part of the central and western core of Iraq, an area from which Mr. Hussein drew his ruling class. The destruction of his government brought an abrupt end to the privileges many enjoyed. 
When American troops arrived in Ramadi in April, Sheik Fauzi Ftekhan Aburisha was the man they had to work with. Chosen by Ramadi's tribal leaders as their representative, Sheik Fauzi struck a deal that allowed American forces to enter the city. He assured other tribal leaders that the Americans would leave them alone. He assured the Americans that they would not be attacked. 
"I really put myself out for the Americans," he said in an interview. "I guaranteed them -- gave them my word -- no one would take up arms against them."
That did not last. American soldiers were killed, and Americans began hunting some of the people to whom the sheik had promised safety. 
These days, he said, many of the town's residents are so enraged that they have sworn to battle the Americans forever. The sheik, who counts himself a supporter of the Americans, is caught in the middle. 
Whatever restraint the people had, they have lost, he said. "They will keep fighting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers in Diwaniya, Iraq, waited in line on Thursday to receive their pay from American marines. Despite delays in payments and full restoration of services like electricity, local residents have a good relationship with the marines, one sign that regions in southern and northern Iraq are now largely peaceful. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Marine Capt. Patrick J. Nash brought food to a retirement home in Diwaniya, where Americans are welcomed. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Map of Iraq highlighting Diwaniya. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); POLITICS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



579 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: New Kind of Electricity Market Strains Old Wires Beyond Limits 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE and DAVID FIRESTONE

 BODY:
With the lights back on after the biggest blackout in North American history, consumers have learned a difficult lesson about the electricity grid: it was an afterthought during the decade-long process of deregulating the power industry.
 No single authority is in charge of the grid, and few have an incentive to invest the money needed to improve its reliability. Deregulation increased the vulnerability of the grid to failure, regulators and industry executives broadly concur. 
 Deregulation is actually a misnomer for the restructuring of the power industry, because only the generation of electricity was freed from strict government controls, beginning in 1992. Companies were allowed to charge market-based rates for generating electricity, creating the financial incentive to build more power plants. 
But the transmission of electricity over high-voltage lines and the distribution into homes and buildings remained regulated. Power companies received only a relatively low, government-set return on their investment in the grid, so they allocated far less money to improving transmission reliability than to building power plants.
As a result, much more electricity is moving over virtually the same transmission wires, pushing them to carry loads they were not built to handle, according to many regulators and experts.
"Right now we have a highway" to transmit power, said David Owens, executive vice president of the Edison Electric Institute, an industry lobbying group. "But we need a superhighway."
Federal regulators and some industry groups realized long before the blackout that sweeping measures were needed to improve the reliability of power supplies. For the last four years, mandatory reliability standards have been proposed for the grid, along with the creation of independent regional operators to enforce those standards.
These plans, if passed by Congress, would produce greater regulation of the grid than existed in the days of utility monopolies, but politics have stymied their progress. While some plans may win approval in the wake of the blackout, other ideas may be delayed amid confusion and finger-pointing.
"Now is when we really need new rules and new institutions to help manage this market," said James J. Hoecker, former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, the independent body in the Energy Department that oversees the power system. "But with the swirl of different agendas surrounding this event, it may be more difficult now."
The transformation of the American electricity industry began because businesses in California and the Northeast, where electricity rates have historically been high, threatened to abandon those regions for places with cheaper power. Federal and state governments, determined to cut rates, remade the industry, dismantling monopolistic utilities and encouraging new companies to compete to supply power.
As deregulation started to take hold, investment in transmission waned. The old utilities understood that they might be compelled to divest themselves of some assets, so they delayed many investments, including transmission upgrades.
"The transmission network needed for a wholesale market should be much larger," said Frank A. Wolak, an economics professor at Stanford University and chairman of the market monitoring committee at the California Independent System Operator, which runs the state's transmission grid. "The utilities said, 'If we don't know what kind of returns we'll be getting or whether we get to keep our assets, then don't build it.' So leading up to restructuring, they didn't build transmission."
Nick Winser, group director of transmission for National Grid Transco, which owns and runs the grid in England and Wales, said the United States needed to invest $60 billion to $100 billion to make its grid big enough and robust enough. But he estimated that the United States had spent $800 million a year over the last decade.
About 70 percent of an electricity bill covers power generation; transmission costs make up 10 to 15 percent, and the rest goes for distribution. 
Restructuring led to a glut of power plants, and electricity rates have fallen in many areas. But few regulators or electric generation companies considered how best to connect the power plants to customers.
Industry analysts say that Mississippi provides an example of the folly that sometimes characterized restructuring. Merchant generation companies, which build power plants, rushed there in the late 1990's, drawn by financial incentives. Their plan was to pump electricity into growing markets in Florida and Georgia, the analysts said.
By the end of the year, Mississippi will have about 30,000 megawatts of excess capacity, industry experts said, but there is no way to transmit that electricity to the intended markets because no one wants to build the transmission lines.
"This is the best example in the country of sending the wrong price signals and locating in the wrong area," said an industry executive. "But that's the way deregulation is. It creates confusion and chaos for some time."
Under the old system, power plants shipped electricity to nearby communities. Now the search is for the cheapest, not the closest, source of power. Industry regulators and experts warned years ago that the grid could not easily handle increased loads over long distances. In July 2001 the North American Electric Reliability Council, an industry group formed to monitor transmission after a 1965 blackout, told Congress that "the grid is now being used in ways for which it was not designed."
The council is a pivotal investigator in the blackout inquiry that is being led by the Energy Department. The council listed a host of weak spots in the system: rate formulas that encouraged utilities to upgrade transmission but that did not reflect risks in the new markets; companies making money from pushing the limits of the reliability rules; and "reliability responsibilities" being divided among many entities because the integrated utilities had been broken up.
Transactions to buy and sell power, which have grown exponentially under restructuring, move over a balkanized web of transmission lines connecting 142 "control areas" with 6,000 power plants owned by 3,000 utilities.
Nowhere is the web more tangled than in the Midwest, where experts say that line failures apparently helped start the blackout. The independent system operator for the region monitors the flow of power but does not manage it. That is left to 23 utilities in Ohio, Indiana and Michigan to coordinate among themselves.
The Midwest Independent System Operator has asked the federal government for the authority to run the grid in the region. "There would be a smaller number of parties involved, so it would most definitely be an increase in reliability," said Ron McNamara, vice president of regional affairs at the system operator.
Not everyone agrees. Robert McCullough, an independent energy consultant in Portland, Ore., raised concerns in a recent analysis that more interconnections could raise the risk of widespread blackouts.
Why did regulators and companies fail to set up safeguards when restructuring began? Industry experts and economists say that the assumption was that the free market would smooth all bumps.
"We're Americans, and we think if it wasn't invented here, it wasn't invented," Mr. Wolak said. "A lot of problems could have been avoided if we had looked at other countries' experience that deregulated before us." 
Now, FERC is scrambling to push measures through Congress that it and many in the industry say would enhance the reliability of the grid. But some of these steps rekindle a long-simmering debate over what government intervention and oversight the power sector needs.
The blackout built a solid consensus for mandatory technical standards to keep the electricity system from failing. Until now, utilities and merchant generators have followed the standards voluntarily. 
FERC wants the authority to enforce mandatory standards, and such a provision is part of the energy bill being negotiated in Congress.
The most contentious issue is the creation of regional transmission organizations to supervise the grid throughout the country, imposing uniformity on a system that has a few strong regional groups, a few weak ones, and several regions with no groups at all.
Regulators at FERC envision a system in which power generation remains deregulated to encourage competition, while transmission becomes a much more heavily regulated monopoly. The system would be shaped by new rules and controlled by regional transmission groups supervised by the commission.
Others in the industry also favor this approach. "When you do this stuff state by state, it doesn't work," said Craig Glazer, vice president of government policy for PJM Interconnection, the independent operator of the transmission system for all or part of seven Northeast states and the District of Columbia. "It's like having an air traffic control system state by state."
The move toward regional transmission groups may become a casualty of the very blackout that the groups were intended to prevent. For years, the plan has been thwarted by opposition from utilities in the South and Northwest that fear a loss of autonomy. That opposition has held up progress on an energy bill that included mandatory reliability standards for the grid. Now the Bush administration has proposed delaying work on the regional groups to obtain swift Congressional approval of the mandatory standards.
For now, the political fight over how to improve the grid gives the industry little room to maneuver. Many experts have called for an increase in transmission lines, but others have begun to caution against throwing money at the problem.
In a recent analysis of the blackout, PennFuture, an energy research and advocacy group in Harrisburg, Pa., said that increased energy conservation and generation from smaller sources of on-site building energy, likemicroturbines, would help lessen the demands on the grid. Many industry experts have called for installing new technology on the grid to improve its ability to ship more power and to prevent failures.
Utilities are also seeking further deregulation by trying to persuade Congress to repeal the Public Utilities Holding Company Act, a Depression-era law that prohibits companies from owning several utilities in scattered parts of the country. Congressional proponents of the repeal, who have inserted it into the energy bill, say it would allow new capital reserves to flow into the industry and the grid. But consumer groups say it would concentrate the industry in a few powerful hands and would be a burden on ratepayers.
Any significant changes, from building new transmission lines to providing better technology for existing ones, will require sizable investment. Most likely, consumers will have to foot the bill, but transmission constitutes a small portion of that bill, industry analysts say.
Patrick H. Wood III, chairman of FERC, and other Washington supporters of competition acknowledge that serious mistakes have been made since the restructuring began. But commissioners argue that now would be the wrong time to halt a process that has learned its lessons and was moving toward stronger federal oversight at the time of the blackout.
"We just need to get there," Mr. Wood said. "If people have got problems with some of our rules, if we're being too strict or not onerous enough, hell, we'll talk about it and negotiate. But dadgum it, we just need to get there. This very prolonged transition has not served anyone well at all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The control room of PJM Interconnection in Valley Forge, Pa. PJM is an independent operator of the electricity transmission system for all or part of seven Northeast states and the District of Columbia. (Photo by Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. 26) Chart: "UPDATE: Choosing Who Provides Your Power"Twenty-two states and the District of Columbia have begun restructuring their electricity markets, allowing electricity customers to choose their own supplier of power. In five states, the efforts have run into delays. Map of the United States breaks the states down according to their electrical status: ACTIVE: 18DELAYED: 5SUSPENDED: 1NOT ACTIVE: 27 (Source by Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (94%); DEREGULATION (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); HISTORY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Power Lines ; Accidents and Safety; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: Neela Banerjee; David Firestone

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Northeastern States (US); Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



580 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's New Offensive Charms South 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TAEGU, South Korea, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Just days before South Korea is to stand shoulder to shoulder with the United States in talks over North Korea's nuclear program, South Korean television is gripped by North Korea fever, with 500 North Korean athletes and cheerleaders coming for the World University Games.
 "We are one, we are one," one network flashed as it televised hundreds of athletes from North and South Korea marching together, waving blue and white "unification flags." At games with North Korean players, tickets are selling out fast. 
 "I saw North Koreans for the first time, really, really," Kim Hu Jung, a 10-year-old girl, said today, jumping up and down with the excitement.
The cheerleaders dispense their smiles politically. At Thursday night's opening ceremonies, they halted cheering when the American and Japanese delegations arrived.
North Korea's charm offensive comes as it prepares for nuclear talks in Beijing on Wednesday with South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and the United States. Appealing to South Koreans' desire for unification, the top Olympic officials of both Koreas said on Wednesday that they would field a unified team next year at the Summer Olympics in Athens.
"Their message is that the Korean nation is one," said Douglas Shin, a Korean-American human-rights advocate. "Between the lines, the message is, 'We are not going to develop nukes to attack you.' "
Polls indicate that South Koreans are far less concerned about North Korea's nuclear program than about the South Korean economy, which has fallen into a recession.
With security preventing significant contact, some conservative groups sent paper airplanes with invitations to the cheerleaders.
"Our papers say, 'Come talk with us, have a cup of coffee with us, come walk in the park with us,' " said Kang In Ku, organizer of a group called Young Patriots. It is unclear what success the group will have with its come-on line: "Stop being concubines of Kim Jong Il. Come to the arms of freedom." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (69%); TICKET SALES (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); World University Games; Athletics and Sports

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TAEGU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (91%); JAPAN (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); GREECE (54%) North Korea; South Korea 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



581 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEWS; 
Works by 2 Friends, A Study in Contrasts

BYLINE:  By Helen A. Harrison

 BODY:
'Nivola in Springs'
Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane, Southampton, (631)283-2118. Through Oct. 12.
 In 1948, Costantino Nivola and his wife, Ruth, bought an old farmhouse in the East Hampton hamlet of Springs. Mr. Nivola, a native of Sardinia, had fled Fascist Italy in 1939 and settled in New York. During the following decade, as the art director of Interiors magazine and the architectural journal Pencil Points, he mingled with members of the avant-garde art scene, many of whom were then taking up residence on eastern Long Island. Those associations prompted both his own move to the area and the decision to give up design work in favor of painting and sculpture. 
 The current exhibition, organized by Micaela Martegani, the museum's Robert Lehman curator, excludes Mr. Nivola's paintings and focuses on his sculpture and related works on paper. It comprises a representative sampling of his work in terra cotta, stone, wood, sand-cast plaster and concrete, including several maquettes for the architectural commissions that occupied him for nearly four decades.
The Springs environment had a decisive influence on Mr. Nivola's career. In his garden, he experimented with painted concrete, sgraffito wall treatments and fountain sculpture. While playing on the beach with his children, he developed a technique of carving in wet sand and casting the negative designs in plaster, yielding relief panels that retained the gritty texture of the sand and captured pebbles, shells and other objects.
The show includes one of the earliest of these experiments, "Totem," a stylized female figure made in 1950. With a flaring mantle surrounding a diminutive head, swelling breasts and winglike torso, the iconic image would become a recurring motif in Mr. Nivola's art.
His friend the architect Le Corbusier encouraged him to pursue and refine the casting technique, using a finer grade of sand instead of the salty beach sand that caused the early works to erode. In 1953, Mr. Nivola was commissioned by the Olivetti Corporation to make a mural relief for the company's dazzling new showroom on Fifth Avenue, an installation that was highly praised in the art and architecture press.
Two sand-cast friezes and other studies for the Olivetti mural illustrate Mr. Nivola's use of surface color to enliven the interlocking geometric and organic shapes. Areas that were carved or impressed stand out in relief, hollows have become bumps, and playful patterns accent the richly textured surfaces.
Other important commissions soon followed; Mr. Nivola completed 50 of them before his death in 1988. Studies for school playgrounds and other public spaces show how he humanized drab environments. His stated aim was to integrate art with its architectural surroundings, but the spirit and vitality of his works often counteract the starkness of the functional modernist settings they inhabit. 
For diversion, Mr. Nivola made small terra-cotta plaques of swimmers and sunbathers. The ripple of waves against the beach and the soft curves of bodies against the larger undulations of sea and dunes are beautifully realized in these intimate, sensuous pieces. A series of figures in bed is even more voluptuous and occasionally erotic, emphasizing the deep emotional connotations of the bed as a place of comfort and conflict, occasional passion and occasional loneliness.
In the last decade of his life, Mr. Nivola concentrated on a series of abstract female figures he called Mothers and Widows. Made of stone or wood, their flattened, outspread torsos, with stylized breasts and bellies, indicate their nurturing, protective role and express exaltation and lamentation.
There are male figures, too, like the stalwart "Woodsman" bearing his bundle of sticks, but the women represent the culmination of Mr. Nivola's approach to the human form. Pared down to essentials, devoid of added texture or decoration and independent of a specific environment, they are masterly expressions of the artist's ability to breathe life into inanimate materials.

'Kiesler: Us, You, Me'
Parrish Art Museum. Through Oct. 12.
One of Mr. Nivola's terra-cotta sculptures is a portrait of his friend Frederick Kiesler. The piece represents Mr. Kiesler, the Romanian-born architect and sculptor, as a meditative visionary, and indeed his architecture was more theoretical than actual. He is best known for his innovative theater sets and imaginative interiors, like his 1942 design of Peggy Guggenheim's gallery, Art of This Century. Among his few realized buildings (designed with his partner, Armand Bartos) is the Shrine of the Book in Jerusalem, which opened in 1965, the year he died.
At the time of his death, Mr. Kiesler was at work on a sculptural environment known as "Us, You, Me," a complex critique of what he described as "this chaotic world of false economy and national pride." The unfinished piece, installed in the museum's front gallery, makes an interesting contrast to Mr. Nivola's reductive late work.
While Mr. Nivola essentialized both form and content, Mr. Kiesler seems to have deliberately complicated his message and his medium, assembling fragments of everything he had conceived over the previous decades: theater designs, kinetic sculptures, furniture, freestanding monumental structures -- everything, that is, except architecture. The installation is more like a stage set that has been opened for public tours, or even a strange, provocative theme park, in which visitors encounter a series of symbolic displays on the theme of modern life.
Mr. Kiesler was evidently no fan of mid-1960's culture, since the various elements of "Us, You, Me" depict a society ruled by negative forces and superficial values. Unfortunately, the power of his critique is blunted by the stilted, cumbersome forms he made to convey his message, which itself is better suited to theatrical than to sculptural exposition.
His stubby humanoids and toylike animals might have a powerful impact as dramatically lighted stage props. But up close, in the gallery's bright, uniform light, they look awkward, even cartoony. Nor is Mr. Kiesler's critique well served by what seems to be his only answer to the world's problems, which is escape into outer space. No wonder some dismissed him as an impractical dreamer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Mother's Secret," above, a sculpture in rose marble by Costantino Nivola, is part of the Parrish Art Museum's Nivola show. Frederick Kiesler's unfinished environment called "Us, You, Me," right, occupies the museum's front gallery. (Photo by Bill Jacobson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); BEACHES (72%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Parrish Art Museum (Southampton, NY)

PERSON: Helen A Harrison; Costantino Nivola; Frederick Kiesler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); ITALY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



582 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
Tough Choices Ahead After Blackout

BYLINE:  By DESMOND RYAN; Desmond Ryan is executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers group based in Hauppauge.

 BODY:
WITH the lights back on there is now going to be a debate about the future of our energy supply the likes of which hasn't been seen since Edison and Westinghouse duked it out over whether AC or DC would be used to illuminate our lives. 
 But don't let the questions about what, or who, allowed the energy grid to trip distract us. Those inquiries are relative sideshows to the macro issue we will need to address, as a region and a nation. We need to ask how will we route this potentially catastrophic event into rational public policy when it comes to siting and building generating facilities and the transmission lines that bring that power to Long Island's businesses and neighborhoods. 
 Some are suggesting that it was deregulation of the electrical industry that led to this crisis. That's a false trail. In fact, deregulation has brought a spectrum of innovative proposals to the table. Governor Pataki has sought to encourage private industry to introduce geothermal, wind and solar energy to the mix. Mr. Pataki also endorsed a stronger Long Island connection to the nation's energy grid by supporting the installation of cables under Long Island Sound and beneath New York Harbor. 
But, typically, wind is opposed by those who say their view of the horizon will be ruined, and the legal efforts by Connecticut to block the startup of the Long Island Sound cable are nothing less than scandalous. So in debating how to move forward, let's focus on the core problem. This is not about a scarcity of solutions but a crisis of will. Are we prepared to see each new request to strengthen our energy infrastructure be met with the same mindless opposition that allows even the smallest nimby group to delay and defeat energy upgrades?
In the wake of the '03 Blackout the silence from the professional eco-radicals who fought energy infrastructure projects is more deafening than the sound of air-conditioners shutting down. Even their political allies are silent. Typical is David Denenberg, a Nassau county legislator. He was faster than a collapsing power grid in opposing a transmission line that would be anchored at a substation in his district. He couldn't wait to stand with a local civic group to condemn the plan and held hearings specifically for the purpose of sniping at the proposal. 
Another plan to create a generating station on Spagnoli Road near the industrialized Melville-Oyster Bay border was opposed, delayed and ultimately allowed to die because some in the area felt the generating station would be intrusive. 
None of this will change as long as the energy industry is left to confront ambushes set by out-of-control civic associations and political posturing that depends more on polls than public safety. In the wake of the blackout, critics can condemn the energy industry all they wish, but even if it had the foresight and financial wherewithal to prevent such disasters, it has not been allowed to fix the problem. 
While there are calls for more transmission lines, Congress has been reluctant to give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the authority to force approval of the siting of such lines by confiscating property. This is clearly the time to give the commission the power of eminent domain to site transmission lines where they will be able to keep the power on. Those suggest that states' rights might be violated should at least allow a diluted version that would allow the commission to intercede in the most urgent siting issues like the Transenergie cable across the Sound. 
Until Aug. 14 one could seriously argue that job growth and the economy were primary reasons for strengthening our energy infrastructure. Mr. Pataki's "Power for Jobs" initiative, under which the state power authority allocates low-cost electricity to companies as an incentive to hire new employees, created nearly 300,000 jobs in New York State; more than 26,800 of them were right here on Long Island at employers ranging from Hazeltine Corporation to Central Suffolk Hospital.
We understood that power equaled jobs. Now we understand that it's much more than that. It's about survival. Our society had better arm itself with the tools to keep the lights on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); EMINENT DOMAIN (74%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (74%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); COUNTIES (61%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts (Electrical); Eminent Domain; Power Lines

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

PERSON: Desmond Ryan

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



583 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2004 Toyota Prius; 
From Hybrid Seed, a Greener Harvest

BYLINE:  By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: Santa Barbara, Calif. 

 BODY:
HALFWAY through a 250-mile drive in the 2004 Prius, I pulled into a gas station here -- not because the hybrid gasoline-electric car was low on fuel, but because I was eager to top off the tank and make some mileage calculations.
 The new Prius quickly caught the eye of Dennis Reed, who was filling the tank of his wife's Mercedes-Benz ML430 sport utility. As he looked over my test car, Mr. Reed said that although he had little interest in the previous, smaller Prius, he liked the larger size and sophisticated look of the second-generation hybrid sedan. "I could spring for this one," he said. 
 Toyota executives are hoping to hear a lot of similar reactions when the redesigned Prius goes on sale in mid-October at $19,995 -- a price that has not changed since the first version was introduced in the United States in 2000. Only the destination charge has increased, giving the base model a sticker of $20,480. 
The early Prius was obviously an economy car, with eccentric styling, mediocre driving dynamics and a tighter cabin than the less expensive Corolla. Yet while it was impractical for many one-car families, it became a cult car in Hollywood, earning places in the driveways of celebrities like Cameron Diaz, Leonardo DiCaprio and Ed Begley Jr. -- it even has a regular role on HBO as Larry David's daily driver in "Curb Your Enthusiasm."
Having grown five inches in length, the new Prius is closer in size to the compact Corolla, yet it has more rear legroom than the midsize Camry. It is also more powerful and more fuel-efficient than the old Prius, Toyota says, and its emissions have been cut by nearly 30 percent.
With its larger cabin, the Prius is now classified as a midsize car by the Environmental Protection Agency, albeit at the lower end of the midsize range. The interior looks classier; it manages to be both elegant and a bit futuristic. Cargo space is notably larger, since the car has been transformed from a sedan with a small trunk into a hatchback that can hold 16.1 cubic feet with the back seat in use (or nearly 39 cubic feet with the seat folded).
The Prius's most important parts are largely hidden. The car runs on Toyota's second-generation hybrid-drive system and its third generation of hybrid-battery technology. While many carmakers have boasted of their grand plans for hybrid technology -- and have occasionally backtracked by postponing or canceling vehicles they once promised --Toyota and Honda are still the only companies that have actual hybrid cars for sale. (Honda offers the Insight two-seater and a hybrid version of its Civic compact.)
These hybrids combine a small gasoline engine with a battery-powered electric motor; unlike electric cars, they need not be plugged in for recharging. Energy generated by braking or coasting is captured to recharge the batteries that power the electric motor. The motor supplements the gas engine when more power is needed, as when merging onto a highway.
An "idle off" feature shuts down the gas engine when the car stops (at a red light, for instance) and restarts it automatically when the driver presses the gas pedal. 
Unlike the Insight or Civic Hybrid, the Prius can run on its electric motor and battery alone. The Hondas are "mild hybrids," because they use their gas engines, to some extent, at all times.
The Prius moves out on battery power, with the 1.5-liter, 4-cylinder gas engine turning itself on and off according to the driver's needs. While that may sound alarming, it is mostly imperceptible.
Toyota has improved its system so that the Prius can operate more often on electricity only, in stop-and-go city driving. (Hence the gains in gas mileage and emissions.) But you have to keep a very light foot on the throttle to keep the gas engine from cutting in.
Because the Prius relies more on the electric motor around town, and the gas engine at speed, its fuel economy figures are higher for city driving than for the highway -- the opposite of most cars. The Environmental Protection Agency's preliminary fuel economy ratings for the Prius -- which comes only with a continuously variable automatic transmission -- are 59 m.p.g. in town and 51 m.p.g. on the highway. The '03 Prius was rated at 52 in town and 45 on the highway.
Although the 1.5-liter engine was carried over from the old model, it is a bit more powerful, with 76 horsepower (at 5,000 r.p.m.), up from 70. The electric motor is also more powerful, producing 67 horsepower from 1,200 to 1,540 r.p.m. and peak torque of 295 pounds-feet from zero to 1,200 r.p.m. That compares with 44 horsepower and 258 pounds-feet for the previous model.
While this doesn't seem like a lot, the 2,890-pound Prius is hardly underpowered, even when merging into fast-moving California freeway traffic. It takes 10 seconds to accelerate from zero to 60 m.p.g., Toyota says, a reduction of 2.7 seconds.
The continuously variable transmission always operates at peak efficiency, because it can shift at any point instead of at a few fixed points -- first, second, third, etc. In contrast to other CVT's, this one is electric. Instead of using belts and pulleys, it employs planetary gears and varying generator speeds.
Most of the time the Prius operates seamlessly, with the driver unaware of the comings and goings of the gas engine and electric motor. The exception comes under hard acceleration; when you stomp on the accelerator, the gas engine becomes raucous.
Much of the new Prius works electronically -- the accelerator and gear shifter, for example -- but Toyota engineers did an excellent job of making it feel like a normal car and not a spaceship.
Still, no other Toyota drives quite like this one. Instead of twisting a key in the ignition, the keyless remote fits into an ignition slot, much like the one on a new Mercedes. You just put your foot on the brake and press the start button. Rather than the usual gearshift lever, there is a stubby joystick that you tap to go from drive to reverse to neutral. With ample power and nicely weighted steering, this green machine is surprisingly fun. Near Ojai, where the road jogs repeatedly from left to right, the Prius handled the transitions without excessive body lean or delay. The ride was good, too, but the engine's drone under even moderate acceleration became a bit tiresome, because the car was otherwise so quiet.
While the Prius's fuel economy is impressive, I couldn't match the E.P.A. estimates on my drive from Pasadena to Santa Barbara and back, a trip that included freeway stretches, two-lane mountain roads and 11 stop-and-go miles in town. 
Driving normally, without making any special effort to stretch the gas supply, I used 5.120 gallons and averaged 48.1 m.p.g. While that fell short of the E.P.A.'s combined city-highway rating of 55 m.p.g., it was impressive compared with the combined rating of 26 m.p.g. for a four-cylinder Camry.
On Internet chat rooms, owners of the first-generation Prius trade boasts and complaints about their mileage. Some say they are getting 50 m.p.g. and offer tips to others. Some say their mileage is closer to 30 m.p.g., and ask, "Am I doing something wrong?" But even conventional gasoline-powered cars often do not reach their E.P.A. estimates.
I based my calculations on the amount of fuel used, compared with the mileage covered. But a screen on the dashboard that shows real-time gas consumption and energy use sometimes registered better mileage than
I was getting. Other times, it was too pessimistic.
The Prius is offered in one well-equipped version, with standard air-conditioning; cruise control; antilock brakes; traction control; and power windows, locks and mirrors. 
The 10 options include side and side-curtain air bags; an antiskid stability control; a navigation system integrated with a Bluetooth wireless, hands-free cellphone connection; and the "smart entry and start" system that lets you unlock and start the car without taking the key out of your pocket or purse. Choosing all these options would add $5,245 to the price.
Whether or not hybrids become truly common, they are surely becoming an alternative to the conventional car. And while automakers other than Honda are still working on their first hybrids, Toyota has moved to the next plateau. "It sounds like Ford and General Motors are moving ahead, but they are four to five years behind the Japanese," said David Friedman, senior engineer for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental advocacy group.
Toyota is not stopping there. In about a year, it will put the first hybrid system in a luxury vehicle when it offers a version of the Lexus RX330 sport utility wagon. And despite some delays, the domestic automakers are expected to sell hybrid pickups and S.U.V.'s late next year. These new choices, and improvements in hybrid technology, will make it ever easier for those who talk the environmental talk to also walk the environmental walk.

INSIDE TRACK: The green leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The second generation of Toyota's hybrid-power car is larger and much roomier. (pg. 1); The Prius's instrument panel is clean and futuristic. A strip of readouts is set high, in the driver's line of vision. (pg. 4) Chart: "How Much Do You Save on Fuel With a Hybrid?" lists features and specifications for selected hybrid sedans and cars that run only on conventional gasoline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); SEDANS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (62%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Reviews; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: LARRY DAVID (50%); CAMERON DIAZ (50%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%) Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



584 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: An Energy Plan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES E. MCGREEVEY; James E. McGreevey is the 51st governor of New Jersey.

 BODY:
WHEN the power went out on millions of people from Detroit to New York, it was indeed a wake-up call that we need to modernize our electric grid. But it was also a clear message that the energy policy debate in Washington has been dominated by special interests and short-term thinking. This debate cannot simply focus on drilling for more oil or searching for more natural gas. Rather, we need a long-term plan that invests in our infrastructure, protects our environment and enhances our security.
 After failures plunged us into darkness in 1965 and again in 1977, we were told that necessary investments had been made to protect us from further blackouts. These promises clearly fell short. 
 Today, our electric grid relies largely on 1950's technology. America has an Internet economy running on an Edsel engine. Our grid is simply not designed for a world dominated by digital technology, air-conditioning and mass transit.
 A great deal of discussion over the last week about the need to modernize the grid has been short on details. Fortunately, solutions do exist. Researchers have already begun developing a 21st-century electric infrastructure called a smart grid.
 Using digital sensors, computer modeling and real-time data, a smart grid would revolutionize our antiquated system. Today's energy infrastructure is built around large, centralized, and often polluting, power plants. These plants churn out massive amounts of energy that is sent through the grid to your home, guided by grid operators who work with inadequate data to ensure the efficiency and reliability that residents and businesses deserve. 
 The current grid works like an old telephone switchboard, but a smart grid would function more like the Internet. It would move us away from the centralized power-plant model and allow the widespread use of smaller, cleaner and more decentralized sources of power like fuel cells or solar panels. A smart grid would also be self-healing - using digital data and computer systems to seamlessly and automatically route power around problem areas.
 By making our energy use more efficient, the smart grid would also make electricity more affordable and would reduce the number of costly and polluting power plants that we need to construct. Finally, the ability to easily plug decentralized renewable energy into the grid would be a major step toward weaning our nation off of fossil fuels.
 Most of this technology exists or is in development. In fact, experts predict that - with adequate financing - we could see widespread adaptation of smart-grid technologies in just a few years. The entire grid could be transformed in a decade. 
 Here in New Jersey, we are investing heavily in our transmission infrastructure and spending more than $125 million a year on renewable energy and energy efficiency. We are also in discussions with leading national researchers to become the site of smart-grid pilot projects. But as the events of last week painfully demonstrated, energy transcends state boundaries, and to have a reliable energy infrastructure we need action at the federal level. 
 First, the federal government should work with states to develop uniform reliability standards for electric grid performance. Such standards will spur investment in modern grid technology. Second, we need increased federal financing for research and development of smart-grid technologies. Investments in such research have declined over the last decade, even though the strain on our grid is greater than ever. Third, states and local utilities need financial assistance to help pay for these upgrades.
 We need both regulatory protections and financial assistance to guarantee that necessary long-term investments are being made. Even more important, we need leadership to tackle this challenge. Congress should quickly pass a bill focused on upgrading our electric grid, so that this pressing issue does not get bogged down in the political gamesmanship that has stalled the larger energy bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); MODELING & SIMULATION (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); NEW ECONOMY (68%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts (Electrical)

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



585 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Victimology 

BYLINE:  By Stephanie Zacharek; Stephanie Zacharek is a senior writer for Salon.com.

 BODY:
 AND NOW YOU CAN GO
By Vendela Vida.
190 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $19.95.
 First novels, especially those by young writers, often tend to be about people who just can't get outside themselves: sometimes it takes pages and pages for a character to move from one fascinating fold of his navel to the next. But Vendela Vida's blessedly economical first novel, "And Now You Can Go," is something else, even if it is about a young woman who just can't get outside herself -- perhaps because it's written by a woman who's cleareyed enough to see around and beyond her own heroine.
Ellis, a 21-year-old art history student at Columbia University, is accosted by a man as she's walking in the park. He holds her at gunpoint, telling her that he wants to die but doesn't want to do so alone. She manages to get away, but the experience leaves her feeling troubled and listless -- traumatized would also be an accurate word, but it's not one that Ellis, or for that matter Vida, would use.
And that's the essential difference between the way Vida writes about disconnection and the way so many other young novelists have tackled the same theme. "And Now You Can Go" is a swift, fleet novel, a spare but polished miniature that isn't ashamed to strive for small truths instead of great lumbering ones. It's a book about that theme beloved by writers of jacket-flap copy everywhere, "self-discovery." But Ellis's journey is a sprint and not a slog. Vida writes with a sense of urgency, and with leapfrogging good humor. She has no use for her character's self-pity, and doesn't expect us to be interested in it either. Instead, she simply shows us how Ellis scrambles back, cautiously but resolutely, into the world we all have to live in -- a world filled with decent people who make mistakes.
The man with the gun is something of a mystery, to Ellis and to us: when he trains that gun on Ellis -- in broad daylight, on a December afternoon -- he wants neither sex nor money. We never find out what's so devastatingly wrong with his life that he wants to die, or why, exactly, he wants to take Ellis with him. But the way Ellis talks her captor into backing down, while seemingly touching something deep inside him, tells us a lot about her: to save her own life, she needs to persuade another human being that life is worth living -- fast.
Her solution? Woodcuts. "It hits me: Bookstore. Durer. I'll get the man with the gun to a populated place, where there are people and phones and police. I'll get him to go back to the bookstore with me. I was there three hours before. I was going to buy a book on Durer. Woodcuts! I'll get him excited about woodcuts, or maybe frescoes, and then we'll go to the bookstore, to the oversized-book section, and he won't suspect even for a moment what my agenda is. Or maybe he will suspect, but by then it will be too late."
It's a crazy idea, but it pretty much works. Ellis survives by becoming an instant good-will ambassador for the things she herself loves best. (" 'You know what?' I say. 'There's so much good stuff out there. There's painting!' I feel like a cheerleader gone haywire. . . . 'There's poetry!' I say, reaching for something, anything.") But once Ellis saves herself -- after suddenly realizing what a terrible thing he's done, the man fumbles an apology and runs off -- she realizes that she can't be saved by art. Her experience has rattled her in ways she can't explain: she pushes away the sympathies of her earnest, caring boyfriend, Tom, the kind of guy who buys bags of frozen peas to press against her throbbing feet when she complains that they've suddenly and mysteriously begun to pain her.
Instead, she halfheartedly seeks solace with people who aren't particularly close to her: she briefly entertains the attentions of a burly R.O.T.C. student with the soul of a poet and the teeth of a hockey player (that isto say, he's missing a few), who's both a charming baloney-slinger and a bully. On the other end of the spectrum is the guy she refers to only as "the representative of the world," a passive-aggressively gentle red-faced fellow who seems to get his kicks by helping other people through trauma.
In the wake of her weird experience, Ellis does some bizarre things, like getting her hair cut a la Botticelli's "Portrait of a Young Man" -- if you've ever seen the picture, you'll know that means she ends up with a mullet. She also fixates more than usual on the way her father disappeared for four years when she was 15, leaving herself, her mother and her sister angry and bewildered -- they returned to the house one day to find him sitting in front of the TV, watching "Wheel of Fortune." 
But after her ordeal Ellis also spends time with her family, particularly her mother, Anna, a sturdy, practical, good-natured woman who works as a nurse. Anna is Italian by birth and has never, Ellis laments, completely mastered American idioms: "I have to keep the doctors in line," Anna says. "Otherwise, when the cat's away, the mice dance and have a big pizza party on the table." Ellis decides spontaneously to accompany her mother on a weeklong volunteer mission to the Philippines, assisting a group of doctors as they perform eye surgery on as many patients as they can manage.
The trip shifts Ellis's perspective without forcing any kind of false epiphany: she meets children who clamor for the sunglasses and stuffed toys she had collected for them, and we see how much it troubles her that she doesn't have enough to go around. And one of the patients she encounters is a blind woman with three young children: Ellis notes how neatly their mother has dressed them for their trip with her to the hospital, and registers that she took the time to put their hair 
in ponytails on the day of her operation.
Vida doesn't fall into the trap of making Ellis's trip the single event that turns her life around. As much as this may look like your typical instance of a privileged American student's being humbled by real poverty and suffering -- and in some ways it is -- Vida doesn't lay it out for us as such. She simply presents the trip as one of several episodes that jar Ellis back into the necessary rhythms of everyday life.
The most unreadable thing about "And Now You Can Go" is its title: it's probably meant to evoke Ellis's confused and protracted lurch toward freedom, but it's an empty-sounding, magnanimously pretentious title that doesn't suit the tenor of this modest and heartfelt book. Vida has written a novel about a young woman's self-discovery, all right. But it works because it sticks to the basics: there's a beginning, an end and not a whole lot of fooling around in between. The book's revelations are delicate and resonant, suggesting, for one thing, that we forgive others not so much out of generosity but because we recognize that forgiveness is sometimes the only way we can live with ourselves. And that's not such a bad thing.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Danijel zezelj) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WOMEN (76%); HISTORY (69%); ART HISTORY (69%); BOOKSTORES (58%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ZACHAREK, STEPHANIE; VIDA, VENDELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: AND NOW YOU CAN GO (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



586 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Looking for Just the Right Bit of Nastiness

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
"YOU have to know how to write a good dissonance," the composer Stephen Hartke said recently from his home in Glendale, Calif., near Los Angeles. The statement may sound slightly facetious, but Mr. Hartke means it.
 Typically, fledgling composers are taught harmony and counterpoint according to more or less rigid, traditional rules, with dissonances carefully chosen and studiously resolved. But when they write in contemporary harmonic idioms and a nifty dissonance is called for, young composers are too quick to think that any old combination of pitches that produce some abrasive snarl of a chord will do. Not so, says Mr. Hartke, and it's a point he impresses on composition majors at the University of Southern California. 
 "I spend a lot of time with students on clarifying harmony," he said. "I try to make them understand that even if you are writing post-tonal music you have to think about voice-leading issues." Write nasty music, Mr. Hartke would say. Go haywire if you choose, but make the pitches matter. 
His own works provide arresting examples of what he teaches. However raucous, impish, jerky, fanciful or finespun a passage in a Hartke composition, notes combine in dynamic ways, textures are lucid, details are telling and colors are vividly applied. That is why Mr. Hartke, whose Third Symphony will be given its premiere run by Lorin Maazel and the New York Philharmonic beginning on Sept. 18 at Avery Fisher Hall, has been widely praised for his excellent craftsmanship. Almost every time I hear a Hartke piece on a contemporary-music program, it's the one that startles, engages and stays with me the most.
Intrigued? Try Mr. Hartke's Violin Concerto, performed by the Riverside Symphony with Michelle Makarski as soloist on a 1998 New World CD, which also includes Mr. Hartke's Second Symphony.
The concerto begins with the crackling, almost unnerving sounds of four percussionists banging drumsticks in unison patterns. The violinist soon enters, doodling around like some country fiddler, except that the skittish solo line is so rhythmically charged and audaciously all over the place that the music sounds utterly serious as well.
That the concerto is not going to be merely some postmodern romp becomes clear when, out of nowhere, the orchestral strings play eerily dissonant stirrings (yes, those nifty Hartke dissonances) in high harmonics. Ominous stuttering brass chords emerge in the background, sounding as if they had wandered in from a middle-period Stravinsky piece, until the restless violin section begins a full-frontal encounter with the suspiciously breezy soloist.
In this concerto, as in most of his works (the bracing piano quartet "The King of the Sun"; the modern-day biblical "Sons of Noah," scored with wondrous eclecticism for soprano and quartets of flutes, guitars and bassoons), Mr. Hartke seems intent on surprising and amusing us simultaneously. Bernard Holland aptly described this effect in a New York Times review of "The Horse With the Lavender Eye," for violin, clarinet and piano: "Mr. Hartke works hard to impress us, to make us think, 'There's a clever fellow.' He does and he is."
Over the years Mr. Hartke, 51, has had major works performed by the Los Angeles Philharmonic, the London Symphony, the Moscow State Philharmonic and other leading ensembles. But for whatever reason (lingering antipathy between the music scenes on the East and West Coasts?), New Yorkers have not had as many chances to hear his music. That will change next month.
The major event will be the new symphony, which was commissioned by the Philharmonic and features the four vocalists of the Hilliard Ensemble. On Sept. 21, the Hilliard singers will perform two major Hartke works written for them, "Tituli" and "Cathedral in the Thrashing Rain," at Merkin Concert Hall. Around then ECM will release the Hilliard's new recording of those works, and the same week, Naxos will issue a Hartke CD featuring the clarinetist Richard Stoltzman and the Iris Chamber Orchestra in "Landscape With Blues," a concerto for clarinet and orchestra.
Mr. Hartke received the Philharmonic commission just 18 months ago. The orchestra suggested, but did not insist, that since the performance would fall close to the second anniversary of Sept. 11, Mr. Hartke might want to touch on the occasion in some way, as John Adams did last September in "On the Transmigration of Souls." Coincidentally, Mr. Hartke was a member of the jury that awarded Mr. Adams's work the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for music.
Mr. Hartke wanted to write a symphony that dealt with Sept. 11 in some manner, but he was not happy with the initial results.
"It was coming out like a big overblown statement," he said, "a New York Philharmonic piece instead of a Stephen Hartke piece."
His composer colleague Joan Tower cautioned him about succumbing to the grandeur of a major commission. "I thought incorporating a text into the work would help," he said. "I found out that the Hilliard Ensemble was available. Then I remembered this text I had long wanted to set."
The text was "The Ruin," an Old English elegy from the eighth or ninth century, which Mr. Hartke first encountered in an undergraduate literature class at Yale. The poet describes the ruins of a Roman city, possibly Bath, and contrasts the observed decay with the imagined splendor of what must have been. The poem "does not moralize," Mr. Hartke said, but rather "celebrates the creative spirit of the city's vanished residents."
Mr. Hartke has always seemed constitutionally incapable of writing overblown or grandiose music. His language is far too tart, incisive and economical for that. His harmonic thinking was strongly influenced by his graduate studies with George Rochberg at the University of Pennsylvania. At the time, postwar serialist composers claimed the intellectual high ground and dominated many influential university music departments. Mr. Rochberg had broken away and begun to write works in a neo-Romantic vein.
During his university years, Mr. Hartke said, there seemed to be "a mad rush to turn music into an academic discipline along the lines of the sciences."
"I like to say they were being scientistic, since what they did mimicked science but wasn't science," he added. "Our generation was made to feel we had to come to grips with 12-tone music. We had a psychic investment in it. I have to say my students today don't feel any such obligation. Back then we would have considered them yahoos. But my students have a lot of honesty."
Still, Mr. Hartke's musical language is spiked with astringent harmony, and his impetuous thematic lines often zigzag in ways that echo the 12-tone idiom. Does he consider himself a tonal composer?
"Yes," he answered without hesitation. "Music that makes sense to me has a tonal glue. You need to feel that the pitches have working relationships to other pitches hierarchically. I have a sense that all my pieces have a key, which doesn't mean I can identify it."
Mr. Hartke freely admits that he does not like 12-tone music, even Schoenberg's works in that style. Yet while he sticks it to the serialists in his dynamic harmonic language, you may also sense a composer working out the impact of their challenging aesthetic on his own hearing.
The myriad styles Mr. Hartke heard as a Manhattan-raised baby boomer strongly imprinted his ear, he says. Critics have pointed to the influence of Stravinsky, bebop, rock, Balinese gamelan music and the lush-textured Minimalism of the Dutch composer Louis Andriessen. Maybe so.
"But I'm not a jazzer," Mr. Hartke said. "And I don't really like rock music very much, though it was all around when I grew up and my musictotally reflects my experience as a listener. I just happen to write music about my listening experience."
With notable exceptions, like the clarinet concerto, which has clearly jazzy elements, Mr. Hartke's work rarely replicates any specific musical style. "A composer's job is to transcend the models," he said. "There is nothing Anglo-Saxon about my new symphony."
As an example of a composer who ingeniously absorbed yet transcended diverse musical influences, Mr. Hartke picks, of all people, Haydn. Haydn inherited "a rich variety of different affects, of expressive musical characters," Mr. Hartke said. Think about it: Germanic counterpoint, Italian opera, the bygone but still popular Rococo style, Austro-German folk music, the sacred-music tradition of the Roman Catholic Church, even the Viennese craze for Turkish music. But Haydn juggled these elements into a new form of expression.
"Composers are at the same moment today, trying to juggle the rich inheritance of modernism, world music and pop," Mr. Hartke said. "Except it's no longer taboo to cross boundaries. We can sit back, enjoy it all and let it come out through our personal filters."
Mr. Hartke's increasing East Coast presence was to have included the premiere next summer of "Boule de Suif, or The Good Whore," a full-length opera with a libretto by Philip Littell, adapted from the short story by Guy de Maupassant. This production has already been advertised by the Glimmerglass opera in Cooperstown, N.Y. But because of a health concern within his family, Mr. Hartke cannot complete the opera on schedule, he said. Since Glimmerglass's 2005 season is already set, the premiere has been put off until 2006.
Mr. Hartke is so far pleased with his progress on the opera, a tale of 10 travelers fleeing the Prussian advance at the end of the Franco-Prussian War. "Trying to get out of town with their wealth," Mr. Hartke said, "they find themselves in the company of a famous prostitute and wind up using her to secure their release."
Thinking back to our discussion of transcending musical influences, Mr. Hartke reports that there is "nothing remotely 19th-century French" about the work's harmonic language. Instead, listeners can expect lots of those good Hartke dissonances.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Hartke has left behind the hard-core serialism in which he was schooled. "I have a sense that all my pieces have a key," he says, "which doesn't mean I can identify it." (Photo by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (88%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (68%) Music; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%) New York Philharmonic

PERSON: Stephen Hartke; Lorin Maazel; Anthony Tommasini

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



587 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Paris Takes Aim At Its Crime Rate

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
ELIZABETH CALLEO moved to the Cite Universitaire quarter from New York three years ago to study music at the Sorbonne. At least five times since she arrived, her purse or cellphone has been stolen or almost stolen. Her boyfriend was pepper-sprayed on the Metro while trying to foil a theft.
 So her father, Patrick, should have been forewarned when he arrived for a visit in March and piled onto the train that takes travelers from Charles de Gaulle Airport to the city center. Mr. Calleo boarded the train with three suitcases, and got off with two. 
"I reported it to the police," Mr. Calleo, who lives in Cooperstown, N.Y., said by telephone. "They took it all down and said they'd get back to me. So far, they haven't."
 Many people here, it seems, know a recent victim of a purse snatcher in the Metro, or a pickpocket at the Louvre or the Gare du Nord. The most common crimes, according to the police, are thefts of cellphones from the hands of idle chatterers or of wallets by pickpockets working not only the vast subway system but the museums as well. 
 In January, the Institute for Urban Planning and Development of the Paris Ile-de-France Region released a study of the increase in crime in France in the last 30 years. It noted that the Ile-de-France, the area around Paris, now has the second-highest crime rate in France, after the southern region that includes Provence and the Cote d'Azur. 
 By 2001, Paris, at the heart of the Ile de France, with 147 crimes per 1,000 people, had the highest rate of any city. Most troubling, 7 of every 10 crimes committed in Paris involved weapons or violence, and the targets were increasingly tourists. 
 But thanks in part to increased police patrols, in the first five months of this year (the latest period for which statistics are available), the overall number of crimes in Paris dropped by almost 6 percent from the same period the year before. 
 On the State Department's Web site, the United States Embassy warns in a section on crime (travel.state.gov/france.html), which is regularly updated, that "criminals frequent tourist attractions such as museums, monuments, restaurants, hotels, beaches, trains, train stations, airports and subways." 
 Indeed, though the Metro and the big train stations have bad reputations, travel and police experts say that the likeliest venues in Paris for losing a wallet to a pickpocket include the big museums, including the Louvre and the Musee d'Orsay; the R.E.R. train from Charles de Gaulle Airport, where thieves prey on jet-lagged travelers like Mr. Calleo; and the Metro Line No.1, heavily frequented by tourists.
 To be sure, Paris remains a relatively safe place. Guidebooks and travel organizations regularly rank it among the safest destinations, provided travelers use common sense, like protecting their wallets from pickpockets, not putting valuables in backpacks and refraining from carrying large amounts of cash.
 In a January survey of 654 residents of the Ile-de-France over 18 by the daily newspaper Le Parisien, only 54 percent said they were satisfied with the level of security, statistically unchanged from 53 percent in the last survey, in 1999. When asked what type of crime they feared most, the largest group -- 37 percent -- listed physical attacks in public places. Little wonder then that the topic of crime was the No.1 issue in last year's presidential campaign.
 Arguably the most popular figure in the government of President Jacques Chirac is the no-nonsense interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, the point man in the government's campaign to restore law and order. Mr. Sarkozy doubled the number of uniformed police officers patrolling the Paris Metro to 400; more than 1,000 now patrol the rail lines in the Ile-de-France, and a fragmented chain of command has been eliminated by placing them all under the direct control of the Paris Prefect of Police, Jean-Paul Proust. 
 But what truly sets Mr. Sarkozy apart from his predecessors is his habit, embracing what he likes to call the "New York model," of visiting police stations, riding patrol cars in tough neighborhoods and generally befriending the flic on the beat. 
 Yet some contend that while tougher policing may be popular with voters, it won't necessarily meet more fundamental challenges. Like other European cities, Paris has been transformed by opened European borders and globalization into an agglomeration of adjacent villages inhabited by migrant laborers from other parts of Europe, the Arab world, Africa and Asia. 
 The challenge for the police, experts say, is to adjust to an urban area whose fabric is rapidly coming to resemble the checkerboard pattern of big American cities. Paris now finds itself confronted with pockets of poverty, where the quality of public schools is poor and unemployment is high, especially among the young, who account for much of the jump in crime. In 1974, 15.5 percent of those indicted by French courts were minors; by 2000, it was 21 percent, according to the national statistical office, Insee. 
 Recent evidence indicates that, whether as a result of government zero-tolerance policies or not, street crime has begun to decline in Paris. According to figures published in June by Mr. Proust's office, in the period from January to May, the number of crimes committed in Paris dropped by 5.9 percent from the same period the year before. In May alone, crimes dropped 13 percent, to 23,500, helped by a drop of almost one-fourth in the Metro. 
 Mr. Proust told Le Figaro that his goal was to decrease the crime rate by another 33 percent by the end of 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (85%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); TOURISM (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%) SARKOZY, NICOLAS (MIN); TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (69%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



588 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Q & A; 
Problems With Television Reception

 BODY:
 Q -- I am no longer able to get television reception in my rent-stabilized apartment unless I buy cable service. I used to get reception for the free channels via a house antenna, but management says that since Sept. 11, the loss of the World Trade Center antennas means that our building no longer receives some needed signal for reception. While I am fully aware that antennas are the least of the Sept. 11 losses, it seems that the building management is giving me a story. I can't imagine that everyone else in the city is either hooked up to cable or does without television. Doesn't this constitute a decrease in services provided? Might my landlord have an obligation to provide an antenna that receives the free television stations, or hook me into cable for reception at no charge, or perhaps decrease my rent for loss of services? . . . Janice Jaffee, Manhattan.

A -- David Ng, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer, said it is not unusual that the letter writer's building may have difficulty getting television reception after the loss of the antennas on the World Trade Center. "A lot of buildings are having trouble getting reception since Sept. 11," Mr. Ng said.
 Moreover, he said, it is not likely that either the courts or the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that administers the rent laws, would grant the letter writer a rent reduction for a decrease in services. 
"The landlord is still supplying the antenna," Mr. Ng said. "The fact that the antenna simply can no longer pick up strong enough signals to make the television sets in the building work is really a matter that is outside the control of the landlord."

Reverse Mortgages And Co-ops

Q -- I own and live in an apartment in a co-op in Manhattan. Lately I have read about reverse mortgages available to those over 62 if they live in their own house. But a few people have told me that reverse mortgages do not apply to co-ops. If this is so, what is the reasoning behind it? . . . Sandra Stevenson, Manhattan.

A -- Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that while lenders that make share loans on co-ops generally do not offer reverse mortgages, she is aware of one lender that does.
Ms. Rothman said that the Financial Freedom Senior Funding Corporation, an Irvine, Calif., subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Bank, began offering reverse mortgages last year to co-op shareholders in the New York area. 
Under the company's financial freedom cash account, a co-op owner 62 or older can get a reverse mortgage on a primary residence if he or she owns the apartment free and clear or is willing to use part of the proceeds of the reverse mortgage to pay off the balance of any existing share loan. 
Ms. Rothman said the company allows shareholders to borrow a lump sum or get a line of credit to use as they wish. Closing costs, she said, are usually deducted up front from the proceeds of the loan. There are no credit or income requirements, she said, and the loan, plus accrued interest, does not have to be repaid until the borrower leaves the apartment or dies.
Ms. Rothman said the amount available depends on the value of the property and the age of the shareholder. A 65-year-old shareholder would be able to borrow about 20 percent of the value of a free-and-clear apartment, while an 85-year-old might be able to borrow as much as 50 percent.
Shareholders who want to determine the amount of a reverse mortgage they may be eligible for, and the cost of getting the loan, may visit the Financial Freedom Web site at www.financialfreedom.com or call the company at (888) 738-3773. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL FREEDOM SENIOR FUNDING CORP (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



589 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7041 words

HEADLINE: Untying The Knot 

BYLINE:  By Melanie Thernstrom

 BODY:
 In most public accounts of divorce, there is no confusion as to why the couple is splitting up. The reasons are so sound -- the trails of manipulation, exploitation and betrayal so thick -- the only mystery is why the couple were together in the first place. Is it possible to imagine that Ronald loved Patricia or that Donald truly cared for Marla? What does love mean to someone who presents his bride with a prenuptial on the eve of their wedding, stipulating that she would get many millions of dollars for a marriage of four years, but only $1 million for less than that -- and then discards her on the deadline? And what does love mean to a woman who'd sign on that particular dotted line? 
 In contemplating these questions, however, we neglect the more difficult ones. The truth is that most Americans do not marry for power, money and status. Nor do they marry out of social and economic necessity, as in an earlier era. They marry for love. Yet an enduring truth of our time is that marriage dissolves as often as it holds. So how is it that ordinary love ordinarily fails? If love is, as Wallace Stevens suggests, a dwelling "in which being there together is enough," how does silence fall on a thousand evenings and the possibility of intimacy flicker and die? How do lovers become lonely?

Marriage: The Spaghetti
"It was a good story -- a story we liked to tell when we were together," Max says, in the slightly droll drawl he uses when speaking about his marriage now, as if irony will obscure his sentiment when its actual effect is more like chiaroscuro. 
Yet the story that Max tells of meeting Kate is simple. (Both of them asked to be identified only by childhood nicknames.) Fourteen years ago this fall, Kate showed up at an opening at the museum where Max was working. They seemed to have a lot in common; they were both 32, with graduate degrees in education and experience working in nonprofit agencies, although Kate was already on a corporate track. She was visiting from the Midwest; he invited her to lunch at an Italian restaurant near La Guardia, before her flight the next day. "She had a slightly wicked sense of humor," Max says. "She was from a rural town and had these appealing colloquialisms, such as 'cold as a witch's elbow.' " He gropes for adjectives. "She was energetic and enthusiastic, intelligent, athletic . . . beautiful. She surprised me. And as I got to know her, she continued to surprise me." 
It's not hard to picture them together: everything each recalls liking about the other still seems true. In fact, if you met both of them today, you might think to introduce them. They are equally distinctly attractive, in differing genres: Kate looks a bit like Dorothy Hamill, with short, silky brown hair, fair skin, impatient blue eyes and a trim, compact build. Max looks like the man who ruins or rescues the heroine: dark, tall and lanky, with a languor about his body and voice. 
Kate remembers being drawn to his attentiveness and intensity. "He had cool interests, jazz andwine and art and literature," Kate says. "And he was very cute." She laughs, her voice lingering in the "very" in which she once fell in love. 
But the story she tells of their first date includes a layer absent from the one that Max tells. Like Max, she felt an urgency in their conversation -- a possibility of intercourse, in all senses of the word. But at the same time, there was a way in which she was already dropping out. 
When lunch was over, Max insisted she take the remainder of her spaghetti home. He must already have cared for her, he explains now; he had never done such a thing on a first date before.
"It was so him," she says, in the way that the fondest of phrases -- it's you, darling! I understand you! -- can metamorphose into the bitterest, as caring begins to be seen, through the lens of years, as controlling. "I hate leftovers; I was hardly going to lug that damn spaghetti back to the Midwest. But I said, 'Fine,' and threw it out when I got to the airport. So there you have it, that's the whole thing -- the beginning and the end."
It was the first of 11 years of things she said 'Fine' to while thinking something different.

Divorce: A Failed Conversation
In his radical address to Parliament in 1643, "Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce," John Milton argued that "in God's intention a meet and happy conversation is the chiefest and the noblest end of marriage," and that divorce is not only necessary but right when that special conversation fails.
Does it follow, though, that divorce must maintain silence? Or is there a possibility of dialogue even in separation? Can two people come to a shared understanding of fractured love? And if so, is that valuable? What is the good of a good divorce?
The questions have grown only more urgent: four centuries after Milton urged that divorce become a civil right, American matrimonial law is still punitive -- protracted, expensive, confusing, damaging. Yet divorce is now an ordinary -- perhaps even a likely -- outcome to marriage. Over the last two decades, the proportion of failed marriages had held stable at around 50 percent, but (while national data lags) some experts suggest that the rate may be tipping over half. 
Historically, periods of economic hardship tend to keep couples together; the current economic downturn, however, appears not to have had that effect. A survey by the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers found that 78 percent of divorce attorneys say that their caseloads are steady or increasing. Several studies, according to The Wall Street Journal and others, show that divorce filings have increased in many areas and, moreover, that there is an increase in the number of contentious divorces. 
Kate and Max vehemently disagreed on the terms of their separation. But they avoided the quagmire of litigation through an increasingly popular alternative to handling disputed divorce: mediation. Although mediation began in the 1970's, it is now beginning to reach critical mass. In California, Maine and other states, mediation is mandated in custody disputes in divorces, and other states are considering similar legislation. Oklahoma, which has one of the highest divorce rates in the country, has recently instituted a program that refers couples to free or low-cost mediation. If the trend continues, someday soon people may look at litigation as a last resort only for unusually contentious divorces (cases in which one partner is abusive or absent), rather than the norm. 
Jack Himmelstein, co-founder and co-director of the Center for Mediation in Law, which trainsmediators, says that the trend is spurred by the grown children of baby boomers who were victims of their parents' 80's "Kramer vs. Kramer"-style divorces, and who want their own divorces to be less damaging. And there is a growing interest in a concept that has newly made its way into our culture, "the good divorce" -- a phrase that once would have sounded not only oxymoronic but also unseemly -- something that implies permission instead of punishment, like "happy hooker."
Litigated divorce inherently fosters enmity. In litigation, "meet conversation" immediately ceases: the first rule a lawyer conveys to the client is literally to not talk to his or her spouse -- lest self-scrutiny prove contrary to self-interest. Refusing to join the modern "no fault" trend, New York continues to require one of three extreme grounds for divorce: cruelty, adultery or abandonment. (Milton advocated that the 17th Puritan Parliament liberalize grounds to include incompatibility.) Individuals in contested divorces have to pay lawyers to establish grounds by creating false narratives about their spouses. Thus insensitivity becomes cruelty, a busy father turns into a negligent one and so forth. By the time litigation is completed, the anger -- if not the accusations -- becomes reality.
Mediation, by contrast, "relieves couples of the need to demonize each other," says Barry Berkman, a matrimonial attorney and mediator who drafted the final agreement with Kate and Max at the end of their mediation. Couples employing mediation have been shown to be significantly happier with both the process and the results than couples using litigation. As an article in St. John's Law Review noted, one study found that 73 percent of those in mediation were satisfied or highly satisfied. Trials yield little satisfaction, and even attorney-negotiated settlements were satisfactory to only 23 percent of divorcees. Himmelstein, who acted as the mediator for Kate and Max, says, "In mediation, you have the opportunity to tailor the law to your own needs." Kate and Max "wanted to create a separation that reflected the relationship they had." 
The only problem was that Max and Kate had profoundly different notions about what that relationship had been. Like most divorcing couples, they found themselves disputing not so much their desires for separate futures as their beliefs about their common past: the nature of the marriage they shared -- or thought they shared.

Marriage: A Dangerous Intimacy
How do we describe the arc of a failed marriage? In one model, a period of happiness would turn into unhappiness, as if the marriage were a plant that bloomed and then withered. There might be identifiable adversities -- weather, soil, pestilence - and turning points, or at least a progression, as in a snowfall. The accumulation of moments might be too numerous for each to be observed, but the trend would be clear: you look once and see a light dusting, and the next time you look, it's an impossible snowdrift. 
Another model of a failed marriage holds that the crucial elements are written into the marriage contract from the beginning, and like genes, express themselves over time. Those elements -- the strengths of the bond -- might even prove to be the weaknesses, the way a certain kind of intimacy, for example, might protect against loneliness while weakening autonomy, the way a gene that protects against malaria also causes sickle-cell anemia. 
In the 11 years they were together, the dynamic between Kate and Max changed very little. But in the early years, the dynamic worked. Soon after that first lunch, their lives began to merge. Kate relocated to New York, and they moved to an apartment on the Upper West Side. 
When Max describes the joy of their relationship, he stresses their easy unity: the interests they cultivated together -- the pleasure of finding a partner. For Kate, the joy was one of transformation, as Max's world opened up to her. She had grown up in a rural town, the eldest daughter of a construction worker and a housewife in a Protestant household where money was tight, whereas Max was the doted-upon child of cultured, Jewish intellectual New Yorkers who reared their children in Westchester. Kate began to learn about bird-watching, baseball, wine and theater. They baked bread, went camping and tried to practice tsedakah -- acts of loving kindness -- by boxing lunches for homeless people in their neighborhood. They got involved in a local temple, and five years after they met, when they were both 36, Kate converted to Judaism, and they decided to marry. They went to a jeweler on 47th Street and picked out a ring with a modest row of small diamonds. Then they went for lunch to a Chinese restaurant where Max, teasingly, proposed.
They each recall having paid for the ring. "I told myself it didn't matter who paid for it," Kate says. After all, from the beginning Kate made more money, working in finance at a large corporation, than Max did at a nonprofit organization -- a gap that would grow.
Their intimacy was sufficiently consuming that neither of them bothered to develop other friendships. Kate loved spending all her free time with Max. But while she was genuinely engaged by their joint hobbies, she secretly suspected her level of interest was slightly inferior to his. She'd find herself gamely tramping along on daylong bird-watching expeditions, when she'd rather have kept it to a morning and gone out to lunch, or she'd observe the Sabbath when she would have preferred to watch birds. And she never quite forgot that each of their shared interests had originally been Max's idea. 
When I ask Max, he exclaims, wounded: "I can't believe she's trying to put these things on me. I wasn't into Judaism before her. These were things we discovered together."
A few years into their marriage, Kate had brief flirtations with hobbies of her own invention -- singing and horseback riding -- but they never really took.
Kate had one close girlfriend, and sometimes in the summer, she'd take the train to see her on Fire Island, play tennis and come back late. "He hated that -- he'd always be in a bad mood when I got back," she says. 
"I guess I wasn't entirely sure I had the right to want that," Kate adds. "I feel like it was very important to him that we have the same interests and do everything together."
Max now acknowledges, "Perhaps I was a bit threatened by it." 
While Max found his job satisfying, it had fewer demands than Kate's did. She worked long hours, concentrating so fiercely she'd sometimes not eat or go to the bathroom. Max would pack a lunch for her or thrust an apple into her hand as she walked out the door, and then call her at work and urge her to take a break. He wanted to take care of her while she was away from him, and he wanted her to take care of herself, and those two things seemed indistinguishable to him. 
"Good lord, the idea of deciding what you're going to eat in the morning is so unappealing," Kate says. "Perhaps he didn't go to school every day for 12 years and take the same boiled-ham sandwich on white bread, but I did. You want caretaking, but you want it in the way that's meaningful to you -- which, for me, is not in a brown paper bag."
Max does recall Kate mentioning she didn't want the food. "I heard it at one level," he says slowly. "But I didn't really hear it -- you know?"
The only aspect of their home life that wasn't communal was finances. Kate insisted they keep their earnings separate and divide their bills proportional to their salaries -- a formula that shifted with Kate's raises. Each year when Max's parents gave them each a tax-deductible gift toward a down-payment on an apartment, Kate put hers in a separate account. The arrangements struck Max as a bit odd, but he tried not to think too hard about it. After all, he knew Kate was compulsively organized, and he reasoned, since they were spending their lives together, all her money was really theirs. If Kate preferred to have her name on an account, what did it really cost him?

Divorce: Balance of Power
It makes no sense to say that a good marriage requires parity, as most marriages in the world and throughout history have been based on entirely different principles. You might even conclude from America's unusually high divorce rate that the expectation of equality and personal fulfillment is itself a more problematic prescription than that of honor and obedience. 
Or perhaps the problem lies not in equality, but in the ambivalence that inevitably surrounds a titanic cultural shift only decades old. Many women today still sign up for marriages in which the man, to some extent, dominates. Traditionally those marriages have ended when the stronger party tires of the dependent. When Harriet Newman Cohen began practicing matrimonial law three decades ago, her clients were mostly women whose breadwinners had walked. But she and others have observed that today, it is as often the weaker party who calls it quits, tired of a role that is no longer culturally sanctioned. And, once equitable distribution laws -- which forced the higher-earning spouse to share the wealth equitably -- were passed in the 80's, there was no longer any financial penalty for divorce. 
Today, almost as many women as men file for divorce. Infidelity, in addition, is no longer a primarily male province. One divorced investment banker discovered that, within his circle of male friends, it was their wives who cheated, not they. "In the culture of my firm, having affairs is just bad behavior, like drunk driving -- something that could harm your reputation," he says. Female infidelity, on the other hand, he says, reads differently. "They're finding themselves, exploring their sexuality," he observed bitterly. "She was fragile and neurotic and I was the white knight. I made her feel taken care of and she made me feel strong -- right up until the day she left."

Marriage: The Smart, Interesting One
Max did not wish to oppress, repress, subsume or engulf Kate. He did not subscribe to traditional sex roles, and if he were to describe what he valued in Kate, he might have listed strength of spirit, competence, perhaps even independence. Like many contemporary men, he never would have been attracted to someone who conceived of herself as Adam's rib. But there was a current in their marriage that ran in a different direction. And for reasons neither of them can fully account for, it was that current, rather than any other, that gathered momentum over the years and began to erode their lives.
"She talks about the relationship like she's Anna Karenina or Madame Bovary," Max complains. "It's a cliche." 
The very thing that Kate admired about Max -- his sophisticationand sensibility -- made her feel bad about her own tastes. Max found some of the music and movies and TV she liked lowbrow. Although he grudgingly conceded that they could get cable, he'd give Kate a hard time about shows she enjoyed, like "Alias."
" 'Why does it always have to be great art or film?' " Max recalls Kate complaining. " 'Why can't we just enjoy mindless entertainment?' But I don't enjoy mindless stuff," he says. "Did I think she was less of a person for liking them?" Max asks himself. (While Kate tends to speak crisply and definitively, Max's words circle back, his thoughts evolving as he speaks.) "I don't know, maybe to an extent."
Later, he says: "The thing is, TV was not what I needed. And the way the relationship was set up, we did everything together," he adds softly. 
Once, Max gave Kate a book of Shakespeare criticism after they had seen a play, and then began to read it himself. "That angers me so much about him," Kate says, with surprising vitriol. "I don't have two seconds to read it, and then it's too late." She says she felt she had been "robbed once again of this opportunity to possibly be the expert. Max was such a know-it-all about everything. He always had more time and education and background and context. You could never win."
When they socialized, Kate found herself feeling slightly left out. "I felt like he was the smart, interesting one, and I didn't have anything to say," she says.
Max disagrees. "Kate is very articulate," he says emphatically. "At dinner parties, she was much more the raconteur." 
When I repeat Max's comment to Kate, she says: "I'm going to start to cry. He never said anything like that to me."
Max says he felt basically content with the marriage and assumed Kate did as well. And Kate was content in many respects, but a small resentment pressed at her. Her feelings were intensified by the fact that she had no time to herself. She suffered the New Yorker's fate: she went from a crowded office to a crowded subway to a small apartment in which Max was always already waiting and often annoyed at the late hour. 
Like most powerful, pervasive dynamics, the tensions found expression in incidents almost too trivial to recollect. She'd get cross with him for not keeping the apartment as tidy as she liked. Or she would rebel in an inchoate, pointless way, like leaving the bathroom door open while she dried her hair, a sound that Max found grating. 
"Another way of describing the relationship was that she had more trouble compromising and being in a relationship than I did," Max says. "It cost her more to accommodate me, so she resented it more. That's as much of a truth as that everything revolved around me."
Over time, they had sex less often, and when they did, they had less of a feeling of reaching one another. The shift was subtle enough that neither can place it -- did it happen in Year 5, 6, 10? Without saying so, each attributed the distance to the other. Max says that Kate didn't encourage him to be the physically expressive person he really is -- and has been in subsequent relationships. 
Kate laughs in astonishment to hear it. "Oh, my God, that is so different from how I describe it," she says. "He wasn't particularly cuddly or romantic at all. But I don't know, maybe I did that to him. Or maybe he did that to me."
Kate took on progressively more responsibility at the corporation, and her income grew from $80,000 to well into six figures, while his merely rose from $45,000 to $65,000. She was gaining confidence at work and managing large teams of people. But then,"I'd come home, and Max would pick on me for drinking whole milk or not eating the stupid health food he likes," she says. 
They never talked about how they felt about the difference in their salaries, but Kate sensed that Max believed his flexible, socially responsible, artsy job was superior to her corporate grind. Max interpreted Kate's long hours as a withdrawal from the relationship -- and she resented his resentment, which in turn caused her to actually withdraw and work harder. 
But while she craved the intensity of her work, it was also a constant source of anxiety. But she had her savings, she'd tell herself. No matter what happened with her job or with Max, she could take care of herself.

Divorce: The Meaning of Money
The simplicity of divorce is that, in the absence of a custody dispute, there is only one issue that needs to be resolved, and that is finances. All of the impossible disputes in the relationship -- sex and lateness and whole milk -- become miraculously moot. The complication of divorce is that without the practical realm in which emotional conflicts are ordinarily expressed, the unresolved feelings compress into the single question of money. And so, money becomes everything.
When Max and Kate decided to divorce, Max suggested they see a mediator. "He always knows the cool, new thing to do," Kate says tiredly. She agreed to go for a session or two, but she didn't see why they needed a professional. Although they never talked about how they would divide their assets, "it was so clear in my mind, I thought I would lay out the obvious facts, and that would be that," Kate explains. "Then I got to mediation," she says, "and I just couldn't believe it."
She sat on the couch in Jack Himmelstein's Upper West Side office and revealed her plan. Their finances had always been separate, so she would keep her money and he would keep his. When she moved out, she left Max their rent-stabilized apartment, their furniture and their pet, and she didn't want any of them back. What was there to discuss? "My money was always mine," she said.
"We shared everything," Max said. That's the kind of marriage I was in. What kind of marriage were you in?

Marriage: Upgrades
It was the late 90's, the stock market was booming, Kate was earning a lot of money at her job, and like her colleagues, she wanted to play with it. At one point, she had her heart set on buying a BMW. Max said it was absurd; he was the one who drove their old car to work every day, and he says he felt uncomfortable with the idea of showing up at a nonprofit in a status-symbol car. 
"I don't have that many vices or do many wild things," Kate says. "We were at a time in our life where we had some disposable cash, and I felt like, let's get a cool car, a great car. His response was so predictable to me: 'Oh, it's ostentatious, it's impractical, it'll get scratched in the city, think of the maintenance, only Republican capitalists would buy a BMW, not socially responsible people like us who recycle.' " 
Max began to warm up to the idea. "I went down to the dealership with her and said, O.K., if she really wanted it, we should get it," Max says. He likes to talk things through, he explains, whereas Kate always wants to make quick decisions.
"He took all the fun out of it," Kate says. "I felt like he was right and I was stupid -- I felt embarrassed for bringing it up, and exposing myself for being the kind of person I'm not supposed to be. But somewhere in my mind I thought, O.K., fine, maybe I am a Republican capitalist -- I don't know."
Kate's pet desire was to add diamonds all the way around her engagement ring, so that the band would make a complete, shining and invincible circle. It still bothered her that, according to her memory, Max hadn't paid for the ring. "I think I thought it was O.K. at the time, but I don't know if that was true," she says. "Maybe I want a man who'd buy me a diamond ring," she says. "Does that sound superficial?"
She brought up the idea of adding more diamonds from time to time over the years, but Max always refused. He found the thought deeply disconcerting. "Sometimes you see these very successful people with modest little rings that represents an earlier time in their life," he says. "What was she saying by telling me that our ring wasn't good enough for her anymore? Did she want an upgrade on the marriage too?"
Kate couldn't understand it. "He was so begrudging about it," she says. 
Over time, when Kate looked at her ring, she began to see not what was there, but what was missing. And the chinks in the ring became what Max feared: chinks in the relationship.

Divorce: The Back Door
Mediation exposed the fragile civility between Max and Kate. In the second and third sessions, Kate tried again to calmly articulate her guiding principle: the origin of the money should determine who would get it. The principle was not entirely self-serving: while she would keep her earnings, she would return to Max the gifts his parents had given her since they were intended for their future home. Therefore, in her mind, apart from the gifts, the fair amount that she should give Max was zero.
Max had a different but equally clear guiding principle: mutuality. Drawing on the principle of communal property, Max says he thought that they should roughly pool their total assets and then divide them equitably. The impasse seemed absolute. 
"I made too many concessions in the marriage," Kate says. She was getting a divorce precisely in order to stop making concessions.
Max pointed out during mediation that he had planned his life around the assumption that her corporate salary would subsidize his nonprofit one. All the anger Kate had bottled up during the 11-year relationship exploded. "Ohh," she spits, remembering. "He looked down at me for having a corporate job -- he gave me a hard time for working late -- and now he wants my earnings? Well, I could have worked for a nonprofit, made $65,000 a year and gotten home at 5 o'clock, like he did."
Perhaps, Max suggested at one point, he might now go back to school and get another graduate degree -- an endeavor Kate could finance. "I thought what Max wanted was completely preposterous, and every time we talked about it, it threw me into a rage," Kate says.
It seemed especially unfair because in contrast to Max, Kate felt financially responsible toward her parents and siblings. And the marriage had collapsed along with the stock market; her job could disappear at any time.
The morning after the third session, for the first time in Kate's life, she says she felt "scarily depressed." She had trouble getting out of bed and going to work. "A long time before the marriage started to fall apart," she explains, "somewhere in my mind I had a back door in case things didn't work -- an escape plan by which I'd be O.K.," she says, referring to her savings. "There was a horrifying loss of control when I realized in mediation that that back door didn't exist. I felt completely vulnerable."
The idea that Kate had a back door all along made Max sick. How could he -- an insightful person -- not have known this about the woman he had sleptbeside for 4,000 nights? Then again, how could she have concealed it?

Marriage: The Miscarriage
Kate and Max had been ambivalent about having children. They were both anxious about the time and money and attention a child would require. By the time they decided to try to have a baby, Kate was nearly 40 and she couldn't become pregnant. And so they proceeded to fertility treatment.
Even more than that of a divorce court, the atmosphere of a fertility clinic is thick with desperation: the exquisitely costly torment of drugs and invasive procedures made bearable by the taunting hope that if they work, the suffering of the process will disappear in memory like labor pains. Yet, as Kate sat in the waiting room day after day, it began to dawn on her that she felt different from the other women there -- that the frightening odds against the success of fertility treatment were not the only thing that frightened her.
Unlike many of the other women in the clinic, Kate didn't regret having devoted herself to her career. Nor did she wish to cut back now; she says she felt Max already wanted more from her than she wanted to give. Or perhaps the real issue for both of them was that their relationship would have to change, their fused twosome divide into three. Would the relationship survive?
"Throughout the whole process, I used to worry: 'Good God, what if I do get pregnant?' " Kate recalls.
Through insemination, she eventually did become pregnant but she miscarried within a few weeks. After the last of the fetal tissue was scraped from her cervix, she found herself feeling, along with sadness, strangely freed. "I realized, Look, I'm never going to have children. It gave me a different perspective on the future. I started thinking, So what am I in this thing for?"
While she and Max began to discuss donor eggs and adoption, she was engaging in a much more complicated conversation with herself. At the same time that she was trying to envision a hypothetical adopted child, her other desires gathered around the figure of a new man. As it is for most people who commit adultery (studies vary greatly -- between one-quarter and three-quarters of divorces are thought to involve infidelity), the affair was and wasn't about the new person.
The man made her aware of a profound sense of absence: how "desperately lonely and tragic and unbearable it was -- being in a marriage and not having that." Yet she's hard-pressed to define what that is: intimacy, as it were, the thing that makes people feel close -- makes sex feel real and living together meaningful. The affair was "like a gift that presented itself and I wanted to give it to myself, because I wasn't getting that out of the marriage, and because I wasn't sure I would ever have that in my life." 
For Kate, the affair was a signal not just that the marriage should end, but also that, in a sense, it actually already had. She had broken her marriage vows; she wasn't the kind of person who would do such a thing; she needed to leave to become an honest woman again. "I felt, Oh, my God, I'm cheating on my husband," Kate explains. "And after that, there was no turning back."
Max was stunned. "In August we were signing up for an adoption workshop," he recalls darkly. "In November, she told me she was leaving." How could Kate present their separation as a fait accompli before they even discussed it? He says that the affair was a "destructive thing to do," but he "didn't think it necessitated the end of the marriage." Through his anger, he could see how hard Kate was struggling to be candid, and her candor held some sense of possibility for him. "I felt like: Wait a minute, let's talk. I want better sex, too."
It was Max who finally asked her to temporarily find someplace else to stay; he was crying all the time and sleeping alone. He says he hoped that some space would make it easier to communicate. But Kate says, "I knew once I moved out, I was never coming back." She had wanted to go, she realized, for such a long time.

Divorce: Finding a Figure
The insight of mediation is that neither party's satisfaction bears a definite relation to the settlement's dollar amount, and therefore the mediator should not focus on a monetary figure -- as litigators do -- but on how money figures. Thus the solution that emerged in mediation to Kate and Max's stalemate was actually a mental shift: instead of thinking that Max was plundering her savings, could Kate imagine choosing to give him a supplement -- for a certain length of time -- for rent and other expenses so that he could continue the lifestyle they had developed together? 
The idea indeed was much more palatable to Kate -- even if the amount she might end up paying would be around the same amount Max had asked for in the first place. Even working with that concept, though, the details of the settlement took many more sessions to hash out. "Over the months there'd be cycles of progress, impasse and anger," Kate recalls. "I'll pay this; I won't pay this." She often found herself too angry after a session to meet again for many weeks. 
At moments, some of their old compatibility would spark; in the midst of a difficult negotiation, they could still make each other laugh -- something Himmelstein had rarely observed in couples. "We both have irrepressible senses of humor," Kate says. "As awful as the sessions were."
Max, however, didn't find the sessions awful; he half looked forward to them as opportunities to examine the breach and perhaps even to mend it. Sometimes, they'd go out for coffee afterward. Once, they parted after the session, only to board the same subway car by chance an hour later. The coincidence taunted Max. They got off at different stops, a few minutes later, but did they have to?
"I felt like, If we can work these things out in mediation, can't we work them out in the relationship?" Max says. "But Jack said: 'Not necessarily. The work can be about trying to create a good ending.' "
The turning point, they all agree, occurred during the fifth or sixth session: when Kate alluded in passing to her pain in losing the marriage and Himmelstein asked her to talk more about it. 
"Normally we were fighting and accusatory -- 'You're causing me to lose this,' " Kate remembers. "There we were able to come together and I realized how tragic it was for Max, and he realized how tragic it was for me -- even though I was choosing it. And that we were both overwhelmed by the enormity of what happened. We both got married fully expecting. . . . " she says, her voice trailing off as she loses the thread of what she had expected, and what she had gotten.
"Marriage obviously meant very different things to us," Max says. He liked being married. Perhaps Kate, on the other hand, "not only didn't want to be married to me, she didn't want to be married at all."
The mediation sessions were often in the evening, and Kate would arrive in her conservative business attire, looking peaked and tense -- like "a corporate drone," Max says. He'd be relieved to feel the pull of his attraction slacken, as he'd glimpse her not as his wife but as just another person -- and one whose life was becoming foreign to him.
At some point around the 12th session, when they'd been in mediation for almost a full year, Max and Kate arrived at a tentative settlement, but one that didn't feel right to either of them. It was less than what Max had originally asked for but still represented about a third of Kate's assets. Moreover, the payment from Kate plus the gifts that Max's parents had given them would mean that Max's total assets would actually exceed Kate's. 
They each decided to consult lawyers about the proposed figure. Kate's lawyer conveyed to her that a legal remedy was unlikely: that were she to take the case to court, given the equitable distribution laws, she might end up paying Max more and she would certainly pay steep legal fees as well. 
Max's lawyer, in contrast, let him know he could probably do better -- advice he found equally unsettling. On the one hand, he felt guilty taking money from Kate. "What am I entitled to?" he says, as if the question still haunts him. "Am I entitled to anything Kate doesn't want to give? It felt strange and uncomfortable and embarrassing, and it still does." (He didn't want the settlement figure printed in this article, whereas Kate did.) 
But disregarding his lawyer's advice also made him uneasy. "There's the chump factor," he says. "You want to make sure you're not being a chump by not getting everything you're legally entitled to."
Kate snorts. "Yeah, he told me that," she says sardonically. "But I felt: I have to fork over money so you don't feel like a chump? You're not a chump, all right, so don't make me give up my savings."
Max decided that making Kate happy -- or, rather, less unhappy -- was a legitimate factor in his decision to accept the settlement they were considering. 
Kate, for her part, decided she'd "rather give the money to Max than to a lawyer," although she says it in the tone of someone for whom the decision is still fraught. Kate was aware that although it was a compromise, it felt profoundly different from the silent concessions she had unwittingly made throughout their marriage. "In retrospect, it was powerful to come to terms with something I thought was unfair," Kate says, "and move on."
The number on the separation agreement was one neither of them would have chosen, but one both of them could live with, precisely because they did choose it. Kate agreed to supplement Max's rent for several years and pay their taxes and legal and mediation bills. He would keep the car, and she would also keep him on her health-insurance plan and pay his premium. They both agree that had a judge given them that same number, they each would have felt cheated -- and blamed their attorneys. 
During their final meeting, they were both drained and blank when they went to sign their legal agreement at Barry Berkman's office. On the wall is a print of "The Desiderata," urging clients: "neither be cynical about love; in the face of all aridity and disenchantment it is perennial as grass."
Afterward, they went downstairs, and Kate finally gave Max her keys to what was now his apartment -- something she had held on to throughout the sessions -- and Max cried. He says he thought Kate teared up, too. But a few weeks later, she needed to pick up something in the apartment, and she told Max she would let herself in while he was gone. He was stung to realize she didn't recall having given him her keys: that relinquishing their life had finally become for her an automatic gesture.
There is a moment in the marriage that they each sometimes think back on. They were in Costa Rica, looking for the classic keel-billed toucan they called Froot Loops, from its depiction on the cereal box. They had been in the jungle for several days, and had fallen into a rhythm together -- "learning to see in a different way, knowing when to keep walking and when to stand still," Max remembers. 
Max spotted the toucan with its surrealistically large rainbow beak, perched on a hundred-year old tree. He passed the binoculars to Kate, whereupon she told him it was not Froot Loops but a more common chestnut-mandibled toucan. He looked again, and disagreed, and then "we began to get really mad at each other," Kate says. Neither recalls who realized it first, but they both remember being caught short by truth: they had been looking at two different birds in the same tree.

The Marriage: The People They Would Become
Kate moved downtown, where she always wanted to live, and began looking for an apartment to buy. Now she does things she never did when she was married. She eats what she likes at work, throws out her leftovers and dries her hair with the door open. She invites groups of girlfriends over. "Friends who used to know me before are surprised at how much I have to say now," she says. Recently she was invited to a baby shower that Max was attending, too, and she found herself moving easily around the room by herself, in a way she didn't when they were together.
She goes to movies Max would consider cheesy. Once, she and Max were talking about getting together and she said that, whenever it was, it couldn't be Sunday at 9, because that's when she watches "Alias," and she felt a delicious relief that she finally didn't care what he thought.
As for Max, he surprised himself by keeping cable, and now he watches some TV, too. Kate is annoyed to see, when she goes over to pick up something, that Max now keeps his apartment neat, as he never did when they were together. Neither of them keep the Sabbath anymore, and Kate isn't sure she considers herself Jewish. And, although they both miss doing it, and say they hope to again, neither of them bird-watches any longer.
Most of the divorce lawyers I interviewed seemed taken aback by the question of whether their clients still loved their spouses. A group of mediators at a round-table discussion, on the other hand, all answered with qualified versions of yes. "To the extent to which they ever genuinely loved each other, they continue to," Berkman says. "For most of them, if you search hard enough, you can find that." 
When I ask Kate about this, she says flatly: "I don't want to go there."
There's a long silence when I ask Max. "I think so," he says faintly. "When she left me, she accused me of never having really loved her." He recalls how devastated he was by the accusation. "I think something about the way that she felt about herself made it hard for her to believe I loved her. But I did love her," he says, in a stronger voice. "We loved each other for a long time, so there will always be that connection between us, I think."
He remembers a fantasy Kate offered him once during mediation. One day, she said, in some now unreachable future, they might meet at a cafe, and forgetting they had been married, begin to talk and hit it off all over again. (Max recalls how they did fortuitously meet on that subway, as if destiny were seconding the idea.) Why couldn't they do that now? 
"We'd need to be entirely different people first," Kate said; the people they would become by getting a divorce.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 24 about a divorce mediation involving a couple named Max and Kate misstated the tax advantages of annual gifts from Max's parents. The gifts were not tax-deductible for the parents; they were tax-free for the recipients.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); EXHIBITIONS (50%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation

PERSON: Melanie Thernstrom

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



590 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Wanted: Roommate, as Economic Necessity

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
JANEL STEINBERG thought her days of having roommates were long behind her. But last June, Ms. Steinberg, 33, found herself reluctantly welcoming a boarder into her home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. She lost her job as a marketing executive late last year and was struggling to cover the $1,650 monthly mortgage payment on the two-bedroom condominium she bought two years earlier.
 Her roommate is a friend, Sarah LaSpisa, 35, an advertising executive who is also out of work. Ms. LaSpisa, who brought along her miniature Doberman pinscher, pays $600 a month in rent. Both women agreed to live together for a year, hoping that by the end of that time they would have permanent jobs and be able to resume living on their own. Right now, both are making ends meet by doing freelance work. 
 "Neither one of us really wanted to do this," Ms. Steinberg said, "but we didn't have many other options." 
National statistics are hard to come by, but housing experts say that more homeowners have been taking in boarders. Some, like Ms. Steinberg, are out of work. Others include retirees on fixed incomes who have suffered losses in their portfolios.
"Our clients are definitely getting older," said Yannick Pons, president of EasyRoommate.com, a roommate finders service that is based in White Plains. The service, which started in 1996, typically catered to college students or recent graduates, but the median age of the company's clients is now 36, Mr. Pons said. "We used to not have any clients in their 50's at all; now, we get them every day," he said, adding that business had more than doubled in the last year.
Linda Roberts, co-owner of Preferred Rentals and Roommates, an apartment and roommate finder's service in Santa Barbara, Calif., said her company hadalso found an increase in the number of homeowners -- particularly retirees who live in large houses -- who are seeking roommates. "Some people have been hit so hard by the stock market that the only other option would be to sell their home," she said.
Some older homeowners may choose to have tenants as much for the companionship and security as for the financial payoff, Ms. Roberts added.
While taking in a roommate can help ease the financial burden of homeownership, housing experts say such arrangements can be rife with problems.
The first concern can be legality. Some local governments restrict the number of unrelated people who can live in a house, said Peter Schillinger, a partner at the the law firm Schillinger & Finsterwald in White Plains. Mr. Schillinger cautions homeowners to read the fine print of local zoning laws to make sure that they are allowed to have boarders.
Homeowners who live in a co-op or in a community governed by a homeowner's association should scrutinize the rules of those organizations, added Christopher Hitchcock, a partner at Ohrenstein & Brown, a law firm in New York that represents co-op boards. He noted that some boards prohibit boarders, while others require approval in advance. "If you violate the rules of the co-op, you could be facing eviction," Mr. Hitchcock said.
He advises homeowners to draw up leases that spell out when the rent is to be paid, allowing for time for the check to clear before the mortgage is due. (You may be able to pick up a standard lease from a real estate broker, property management company or even some office supply stores.) Mr. Hitchcock strongly recommends collecting a security deposit to protect against damage to the property.
Other legal and housing experts recommend researching a potential roommate's background -- checking employment references, for example. Roommate-matching companies and real estate brokers can provide this service, along with credit and criminal background checks, for a fee. Many online sites provide background and credit checks, for fees starting at $25. 
Handling all those matters, however, is only half the challenge of having a roommate. Homeowners also have to deal with the fact that they will be sharing their personal space.
For the last three years, Caren Browning, 45, rented out the second bedroom in her Midtown Manhattan co-op apartment. Ms. Browning, an actress and part-time acting teacher, wanted to supplement her income so she could meet her $1,800 monthly mortgage and co-op fees after her partner of 13 years moved out.
But the transition proved more difficult than she expected. While she had come to think of her apartment as a place to decompress after work, it sometimes became a place to avoid. One of her tenants spent a significant amount of time hanging out in her living room wanting to socialize, she said. Another, an aspiring actress, was always cornering her for advice. "These people wanted to be neighborly, and I wasn't having any of it," she said.
Then there was the roommate who was always on diets and "was regularly running the blender at 5:30 in the morning," said Ms. Browning, who lives on her own today.
Such arrangements can be difficult for anyone, but they can be particularly troublesome for those who are accustomed to living alone, said Ms. Roberts, who runs the roommate-service company in Santa Barbara. "You're used to having a certain amount of personal space," she said. "It can be tough to swallow."
Then there is the issue of protecting your property. "Now that I have a vested interest in this place, I'm very picky about stupid stuff," said Clare Kelly, 31, of the condominium she bought in Arlington, Va., last year. Ms. Kelly, a lobbyist for the National Association of Children's Hospitals, recently took in a roommate to help subsidize her monthly mortgage payment of $1,400. "Who would have known that once I got the walls painted, I would be this crazy woman yelling about marks on the wall?" she said.
Ms. Steinberg acknowledged that she was a little annoyed when her roommate's dog urinated on the carpeting. "It's different when it is your home," she said. Luckily, she said, her roommate is "very respectful" of her property, and the two had agreed up front that Ms. LaSpisa would pay for any damage her dog might cause to the unit.
Such agreements are essential to making a roommate arrangement work, Ms. Roberts said. She counsels her clients to set up explicit ground rules, like which rooms in the house are off limits to a tenant or whether smoking is permitted. "You've got to put everything in writing, even if you're friends with the person," she said.
Neil Binder, a principal at the Bellmarc Companies, which manages more than 4,500 co-ops in New York, says some of the worst roommate disputes occur between friends, and in the absence of formal rental agreements. "You've got to have a plan in place in case you don't get along," he said.
Some legal experts recommend establishing a month-to-month lease, so a homeowner can evict a tenant if the situation is untenable -- or if the homeowner's financial situation improves so that he no longer needs a boarder.
HAVING a roommate can have benefits, too. Ms. Kelly said her roommate, Kristen Hackler, 30, a public relations executive, had put a significant amount of "sweat equity" into her house, painting her own bedroom and installing carpeting. Ms. Hackler also cares for Ms. Kelly's two cats when she goes out of town. "Having a roommate that you can trust in that way is a great asset," Ms. Kelly said. 
Ms. Browning, for one, has decided to go at it alone for a while, even if it may be a financial stretch. She recently was hired to play a small, recurring role on the television series "Law & Order: SVU" and figures that if she lives frugally, she will be able to manage on her own. She has already put a futon in her spare bedroom and plans to give the room a fresh coat of paint.
"The truth is: I'm too old for this," she said of her roommate days. "My preference is to make a mature living so that I don't put myself in that situation again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janel Steinberg, left, and her friend Sarah LaSpisa decided to become roommates to help get through some tight economic times. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (89%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); DOGS (70%); ZONING (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%) Housing

PERSON: Melinda Ligos

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



591 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Central Greenwich, Conn.; 
A Town With a Little City at Its Heart

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
THE downtown business district of Greenwich, a famously baronial community, has always accommodated working people who are not millionaires. They have lived in harmony in rental apartments over the shops, condominiums, midrise apartment houses, modest single-family and two-family homes, and larger homes on ample lots. 
 But in the past couple of years, the small-town atmosphere has been changing, with a cosmopolitan mix of residents moving in. They have been attracted by the smart, citified neighborhood that invites walking to everything: a movie, dinner, a drink, the 6:05 a.m. to New York, a stroll in the park, world-class shopping, concerts, sailing, beaches, jobs in the corporations and shops. 
 Well-to-do young New York couples, older Greenwich residents scaling down from large homes, and single people of all ages have discovered the little city growing within the town of Greenwich. 
Josh and Gillian Weisman, in their late 20's, moved into a town house off Greenwich Avenue in July 2002. "You truly feel like you're a hundred miles from the city," said Mr. Weisman, a former New Jersey resident who commutes to his trader's post at Monness, Crespi, Hardt in Manhattan. "There's so much shopping, phenomenal restaurants -- it's like living in New York." 
Mrs. Weisman grew up in Cheshire. "I never thought I would move back to Connecticut," she said. "I love New York and didn't want to leave, but my husband did. I can still walk to Saks on Greenwich Avenue and I'm amazed at all this town has to offer. You go out for dinner and it's predominantly young couples sitting around the restaurant, and a lot of single people. You walk down Greenwich Avenue and you hear different accents and languages. Our friends come out and we take them to the beach. It's like living in a resort."
THE demand for downtown space exceeds the supply, said Jean Crocco, who founded Putnam Associates, a real estate firm, in 1969. As a result, she said, "we are getting four condos where a house once stood, and prices have escalated incredibly." Properties that were $300,000 and $400,000 five years ago are now in the $800,000's and $900,000's, she said.
About 30 condos and 40 houses, some dating from the 18th and 19th centuries, are listed for sale, she said.
Marty and Amy Kindler bought a new condo last September at Hamilton Way on Hamilton Avenue after a six-month search for a larger apartment in Manhattan. He switched jobs from New York to GlobeOp Financial Services in Harrison, N.Y. -- "an 11-minute drive without a light, 12 minutes with," he said. His wife commutes to her banking job on Wall Street -- "six-tenths of a mile to the station," he said. 
Theirs is one of 16 units built at the former site of two houses and a factory. The condominiums sold out in the upper $800,000's. Among the downsizing buyers from Greenwich's back country were two empty-nest couples and a widow with a teenage son.
The developer, Jerry Effren, is now building 16 identical town houses set between two subsidized housing projects on LeGrande Avenue, but priced in the high $900,000's. 
Scattered through Central Greenwich are pockets of narrow old curving streets filled with small homes and businesses where cars navigate turns that were meant for horses. On the other hand, homes on the three peninsulas that jut into Long Island Sound south of the turnpike can be palatial and can cost upward of $14 million. "There is nothing on the Belle Haven peninsula under $3 million," said Jackie Hammock, a broker at Coldwell Banker. The private Belle Haven Yacht Club has a pool, tennis, beach and restaurant, and gives residents of the gated Belle Haven community preference for membership. 
Millbrook, an enclave of luxury homes, was built in the 30's on land that had been part of the enormous Boss Tweed estate. The old gatehouse was converted to a private home and overlooks the private Millbrook Club, which has a nine-hole golf course, tennis, swimming pools and a restaurant. Two homes are available at $1.3 million and $2.9 million, said Ms. Hammock. "But condos are selling better than houses," she said, "and there is a premium for downtown." 
Central Greenwich has most of the town's office buildings, and Greenwich Avenue, six-tenths of a mile long, plus a few side streets and an adjoining section of the Post Road are crammed with 180 retailers, restaurants, service businesses, professional offices and two multiplex cinemas. So far Tiffany, Baccarat, the Gap, Ann Taylor and CVS have not put the locals like Betteridge Jewelers, Razook's women's clothes or Grannick's Pharmacy out of business.
When too much shopping is enough, Greenwich's Department of Parks and Recreation offers all kinds of things to do. Hop a ferry to Great Captain's Island or Island Beach, two of the town's four beaches, or try Greenwich Point, the 147-acre park and beach with wooded nature trails, pavilions and a sea-life museum in Old Greenwich. Resident beach cards are $22 a season, $5 for children, free for seniors.
Of the nine country clubs in the town, the Griffith E. Harris Golf Club is the only public 18-hole course. Residents who are 18 through 64 pay $100 a season, those under 18 pay $65 and those over 64 pay $55. In addition, there are greens fees of $10 to $18, depending on the day of the week. Guests are charged $48 a day.
The right to use more than a dozen tennis courts around town and a lighted paddle tennis court cost $22 a season, $10 a day for guests. The Dorothy Hamill skating rink, named for the hometown champion, offers public skating for $4 an hour, $2 for children; group lessons; birthday parties; and ice hockey. 
INDIAN HARBOR, one of three private yacht clubs, is at the tip of Steamboat Road. Its 400 members are serious sailors. The residential Indian Harbor Association (not connected to the yacht club) has been home variously to Donald Trump, Mel Gibson, Diana Ross, Kathie Lee and Frank Gifford, Joan Lunden and Michelle Marsh of Channel 4.
Permits for using municipal marinas at Grass Island, and outside Central Greenwich at Cos Cob and Byram, are $55 a season, plus fees based on boat size that vary from $170 to $340. 
Well over 1,100 acres of parklands townwide are open to the public for picnicking, hiking, in-line skating or just observing the flora and fauna.
Within Central Greenwich, Roger Sherman Baldwin Park is the site of free summer concerts and a newly opened skateboard and in-line skating park with jumps and ramps. Bruce Park has ball fields, a horseshoe pit, a pond, playground, tennis courts and picnicking. 
The nucleus of a large aggregation of cultural organizations includes the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science, the Playmakers' full-scale shows, the Greenwich Symphony Orchestra, Greenwich Chamber Players, Greenwich Art Center and Greenwich Art Society. 
Central Greenwich children are served by Central Middle School, Greenwich High School and Julian Curtiss Elementary School, nicknamed "the United Nations School" for having the most culturally, ethnically and economically diverse student body in town. Of the town's total enrollment of 8,800 students in 11 elementary schools, three middle schools and one high school, some 1,400 are dominant in a language other than English; 41 languages are represented. 
Larry Leverett, superintendent of the public school system, says his mission "is to add value to the performance range of the very successful student, the children in the middle and those who are not succeeding."
"This is a diverse community with very high educational standards," Dr. Leverett said, "but communities that were once homogeneous are changing." 
Scores on the SAT reasoning tests in 2002 were 549 in the verbal test and 567 in mathematics, exceeding the state average of 509 and 509 and the national average of 504 and 516, respectively. Parents also have a choice of nine private schools within the town, four of them in Central Greenwich.
Greenwich library is well known for its extensive services to the business community, its computers for the public, homey lounge areas for reading, seminars, movies, concerts, puppet shows and a cabaret series. It lends more than 300,000 domestic and foreign books, paperbacks, videos, Books on Tape, artwork, magazines and newspapers. Individual study rooms are available, as are $125 annual memberships for nonresidents, who make up 4 percent of the 58,000 card holders.
In 1931 the main library was installed in the converted 62,000-square-foot Franklin Simon department store, and in 1999 a 42,000-square-foot wing designed by Cesar Pelli was built with a $26 million endowment from the Clementine Lockwood Peterson Foundation. 
Home seekers should be aware that relatively reasonably priced residences do exist in Central Greenwich, said Ms. Crocco, the real estate agent. Well-maintained condos built in the 50's are available at Putnam Park for $340,000 to $415,000 and at Putnam Hill, where three-bedroom, two-bath units cost $425,000 to $535,000, she said. 
Lee Parfray, who is from Greenwich, England, lives in a similar complex called Green Glen. She moved to Greenwich in 1969 when the New York company she worked for pulled up stakes and settled where the company president lived. "Everyone was doing it," she said, referring to the trend at that time for businesses to leave big city crime, costs and crowds and follow the chief executive to the country. 
"It was just a sleepy town then, until Woolworth's was sold for $12 million," a stunning price at the time for a five-and-ten-cent store, she said. "Nobody had ever heard of such a price, in spite of the wealthy people who lived in the back country. Today, Greenwich Avenue is taken over by the big national stores. The chemist and shopkeepers who knew you by name don't exist anymore, but it's still a very nice place to live and our taxes are a lot less than other places."
Ms. Parfray lives in retirement now in the same three-bedroom town house that she bought in 1974 for $53,500. "Today it's worth $450,000," she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about living in Central Greenwich, Conn., misstated the year in which the main library was installed in a building that had formerly been a department store. It was 1961, not 1931.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The main shopping area around Greenwich Avenue includes both upscale national retailers and numerous locally owned stores.; Homes on Lexington Avenue, north of Interstate 95, and a view of the Indian Harbor Yacht Club, at the tip of Steamboat Road. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); 2-bedroom, 2-bath co-op at Putnam Hill Apartments, Putnam Place, $445,000. 3-bedroom, 3-bath colonial at 21 Lawrence Street, $840,000. 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath condominium in 1820 house, 661 Steamboat Road, $2.29 million. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 10,989.AREA: 4.49 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $89,200.MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE FAMILY HOUSE: $1.2 million.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $9,486.MEDIAN PRICE IN 2000: $1.12 million.MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDO: $619,000.PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $12,438.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 28.1 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 39 minutes on Metro-North New Haven line; $10.25 one way during peak hours, $7.35 during off-peak hours, $225 monthly.CODES: Area, 203: ZIP, 06830.USING HISTORY TO RESIST CONDOS: In 2002 the Department of the Interior placed a tiny neighborhood of small homes in a section of Central Greenwich known as the Fourth Ward on the National Register of Historic Places. The roughly three-block-by-two-block area encompassing Williams, Church, Division and Northfield Streets and Putnam Court had been the focus of neighborhood ire some months earlier when condominiums were proposed there. Because of the Fourth Ward's historic significance as the oldest major urban settlement in Greenwich, dating to the end of 17th century, and the primary nucleus of the town's Irish population and its African-American enclaves, the Greenwich Historical Society nominated the area for inclusion in the National Register. Other historic districts in Central Greenwich, according to Debra Mecky, the society's executive director, include Greenwich Avenue and sections of the Post Road. The designation provides federal tax credits for rehabilitating nonresidential profit-making structures, and Connecticut law allows for court challenges to "unreasonable" razing of such properties. Map of Connecticut highlights Central Greenwich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: GLOBEOP FINANCIAL SERVICES SA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Greenwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



592 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 8-24-03; 
We're All Connected?

BYLINE:  By Rob Walker; Rob Walker is a columnist for Slate.

 BODY:
'The future belongs to crowds," Don DeLillo declared in his novel "Mao II," and at the time he was writing it -- the end of the 1980's, when packs of soccer hooligans were rampaging in Europe and masses of undifferentiated couples were getting married in stadium-filled Moonie wedding ceremonies -- that sounded pretty scary. But it turns out, now that the future is here, that the mobs aren't quite so frightening after all. Indeed, a pro-mob culture is forming -- one made up of the individualism-obsessed techno-futurist set. These mostly young, educated, vanguardish men and women have been countering technologies of control (databases, ubiquitous surveillance, etc.) to turn the crowd, paradoxically, into a forum for idiosyncratic behavior.
 "Flash mobs" consist of dozens or even hundreds of well-wired folks who gather suddenly, perform some specific but innocuous act, then promptly scatter. A few weeks ago, for instance, a mob formed at a Toys "R" Us in Times Square, stared at an animatronic Tyrannosaurus rex, then fell to the floor with screams and a waving of hands before quickly dispersing. Such events, which have also taken place in San Francisco, Minneapolis, London and Berlin, are getting attention partly because they're weird and partly because the "mobs" organize by way of mobile phones and pagers and Web sites. Some observers have written off the phenomenon as a slightly annoying fad, the techno equivalent of streaking. Others detect a "social revolution" in the offing. 
 Well, the blackout of Aug. 14 didn't do much for any revolutionary claims. For all the bravado about our deeply connected world, the blackout showed how quickly it can all come undone. For starters, it takes old-economy power to keep many of the new-economy nodes of connection open. The failure of cellular networks meant long lines at those pay phones still in operation (the spread of cellphones having greatly reduced the number of pay phones in recent years). Citizens connected -- but they did so by crowding around individuals with radios, or simply by talking to whichever strangers were physically proximate. The techno-linked hive mind was not really in evidence.
Yet despite technology's failure and the fleetingness of youthful fads, flash mobs are worth paying attention to. They offer a lesson about the evolving nature of networks: from Friendster, a six-degrees-of-separation dating service, to the "relationship mining" software that combs through employees' electronic address books to identify which of their contacts might be useful to the employer. What flash mobs do is make networks tangible. The leading official expert on the subject is probably Howard Rheingold, whose book "Smart Mobs," published last year, mused on the implications of (for example) young Japanese "thumb tribes" whose life in the physical world is supplemented by a kind of separate, shadow existence in which wireless communications devices allow them to tell one another via instant text message from anywhere, at any time, "I'm bored." Rheingold did not exactly predict flash mobs, but he saw potential in "the combination of computation, communication, reputation and location awareness" that might lead to socially advantageous "cooperation epidemics." (The current watered-down version of this idea tends to be articulated as organizing political- or issue-oriented flash mobs.)
It seems that "cooperation epidemics" unfolded in blacked-out Manhattan without technological assistance, as volunteers directed traffic (sometimes armed with whistles handed over by supportive passers-by). This reminds us that despite their shabby reputation, crowds are not only, or always, bad. After all, people massed together can make participants braver, as they were during the sit-ins and demonstrations of the Civil Rights era. But this in turn tells us something important about the new connectedness, which is that technology alone cannot make a crowd virtuous.
What it can do, alas, and quite readily, is make a crowd into a valuable commodity -- a point made often by the leading chronicler of flash mobs, the blog (of course) www.cheesebikini.com. The coverage there and on other blogs has been overlaid almost from the beginning with a vague sense of dread that flash mobs are going to be hijacked, most likely by consumer companies. The cheesebikini site noted that the Toys "R" Us gathering coincided with another planned "mob" in Toronto that targeted "the same giant multinational toy-store chain. That's an ugly coincidence. . . . Participants: remember that a corporation could easily create fake flash mobs designed to spur more business to its retail outlets. Don't be a sheep!"
That's obviously a funny thing to say to mob wannabes, but the writer is onto something. Maybe this is why flash mobs, in their apparent pointlessness, have steered so conspicuously away from being exploited by either commercial interests or the professional theorizers who will inevitably organize highfalutin conferences to swap career-advancing pronouncements on the trend; for now, mobbists serve the cause of no cause. That might sound like a cop-out -- especially when set against the ideology behind the Civil Rights struggles -- but it's understandable. Which is more likely to happen first: 500 people converge and spend 15 minutes instantly cleaning up a neglected urban playground, or a sneaker company organizes a word-of-thumb "flash-mob party" in a warehouse somewhere? Flash mobs might be a peek at the future of crowds, but also, perhaps, a last glimpse of their good old days.

GRAPHIC: "For some reason, as if it was part of the instructions, as everyone made their first pass across Market, they let out a "Whoooooooooooooooooooo" sound. . . . At one point we heard a siren. My first thought was it's "The Man" coming to smack down the law on us. But instead it was an ambulance racing down Market. . . . In the end, the Mob dispersed at exactly 6:37 as requested and everyone went his or her separate ways. This was a little sad as we had met a girl named Sarah (with an 'h') at the bar beforehand. She took a few pictures for us. My wife tried to find her but had no luck." From a first-person account on FlashMob.info. Photo: (Photograph by Jeff Mermelstein) Chart: "California Mobbin' ""For some reason, as if it was part of the instructions, as everyone made their first pass across Market, they let out a "Whoooooooooooooooooooo" sound. . . . At one point we heard a siren. My first thought was it's "The Man" coming to smack down the law on us. But instead it was an ambulance racing down Market. . . . In the end, the Mob dispersed at exactly 6:37 as requested and everyone went his or her separate ways. This was a little sad as we had met a girl named Sarah (with an 'h') at the bar beforehand. She took a few pictures for us. My wife tried to find her but had no luck." From a first-person account on FlashMob.info. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); STREET ART (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (86%); POWER FAILURES (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Paging Systems; Computers and the Internet; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (55%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (55%)

PERSON: Ron Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



593 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
CATES, DUDLEY FOULKE

 BODY:
 CATES--Dudley Foulke. 85, of West Palm Beach, FL, died August 7, of complications from a stroke at Whitehall, a skilled nursing facility in Boca Raton. Devoted father of George Cates, Valerie Potvin, Jessica Zirinis, Dudley Cates Jr. and the late Alexander Cates. 
Survived by his brother David Cates. Mr. Cates attended Harvard and the London School of Economics, served as a lieutenant in US Naval Intelligence, World War II, in Austria. Partner of Kidder Peabody and Loeb Rhoades. President of United Funds, Kansas City. A Bible historian, Dudley wrote four books, "The Rise and Fall of King Nimrod," "Portents of the Coming Millennium," "Blossoms of the Nile," and "Discovered God's 'lost' People The Ten Tribes of Israel." Memorial services will be held at a later date in New York City and Palm Beach, FL. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HISTORY (86%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (72%); NAVIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); RELIGION (68%) 

PERSON:  CATES, DUDLEY FOULKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



594 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Working, but Barely Enough to Get By

BYLINE:  By Janny Scott; This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE last time Eddie Perez had a full-time job was before Sept. 11, 2001. He worked for a small moving company that had a big client with offices in 7 World Trade Center in Manhattan. When the building collapsed, Mr. Perez's job went down with it. He has been unable to find anything like it since.
 He has worked sporadically for small moving companies in New York City. He has tried to find a job as a courier but has had no luck. He has worked part time fueling airplanes at La Guardia Airport; he helps with deliveries for an auto parts store; he offers his services as a bouncer. 
 "I've been, like, freelancing now," said Mr. Perez, 32, a father of three who lives in East Harlem. "I'm like a nomad mover. Right now, I'm working two to three days. If I'm lucky, I'm guaranteed a week. I haven't seen a whole-month job in a long time."
Mr. Perez is one of the growing number of underemployed Americans who are still working but in a capacity below what they once had and want. They make less money and work fewer hours than they did before they were laid off, and many are working below their level of experience and skill.
The number of people working "part time for economic reasons" rose to 4.6 million in July, after seasonal adjustment, from 3.1 million three years ago, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That number tends to rise sharply during recessions and drop in better times.
One New York State study that tracked workers who had exhausted unemployment benefits during the recession of the early 1990's found that only 31 percent of those workers had a new job one year later, researchers say. And most of those people were earning less than they had in their previous job.
"The bottom line is that the impact of unemployment reaches far beyond the actual state of being unemployed," said Annette Bernhardt, a senior policy analyst at the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law. "It affects wages and hours worked for many years to come."
Hispanics have an underemployment rate of 5.6 percent, compared with a rate of 3.7 percent for blacks and 3.2 percent for whites, according to Andrew Stettner, a policy analyst with the National Employment Law Project.
And underemployment is self-perpetuating. People who take jobs for lower pay often end up having to take two, leaving them little time to search for something better. Their skills may deteriorate; two years out from a technology career and a person's skills might be obsolete.
"So you're a secretary and you used to make $38,000 a year and you've been with your employer for 10 years," Dr. Bernhardt said. "You lose your job, you're out of benefits, you take a $7 an hour job. It's going to be really hard for you when the recession ends and the economy rebounds to get back into a firm where you have job security, a good salary, health insurance. It's that interruption of the career path that's so traumatic."
Mr. Perez, who grew up in East Harlem, said he spent five years working as a courier in Midtown Manhattan. After five years, he was making $11 an hour, plus benefits. When a friend at the moving company told him he could work there for $15 an hour and have a chance to move up, Mr. Perez defected.
For a year, he said, he often worked six days a week. The job in 7 World Trade Center was the moving company's biggest project. The moving company was constantly relocating executives and entire offices from floor to floor, storing furniture, moving people between buildings.
But when the World Trade Center was attacked, the moving company lost that job. Mr. Perez would call the company every morning but there was rarely any work. He went on unemployment and did small jobs for a friend's father's moving company. Then those jobs ran out too.
Mr. Perez got part-time work fueling planes for $8 an hour. But when he was promoted, he said, the pay raise was only $1 an hour. "It really made me feel real bad," Mr. Perez said. "Like that's not enough to let me feed my family."
Mr. Perez, whose unemployment benefits have run out, said he now earns one quarter of what he earned before losing his moving job. His wife recently lost her job, too, after being hospitalized with gallstones, Mr. Perez said. He said his credit card debt is approaching $10,000.
"I'm praying that next month U.P.S. starts hiring a lot," said Mr. Perez, who said he worked for United Parcel Service in the mid-1990's. Because his wife met a U.P.S. supervisor in the hospital, Mr. Perez said, "I'm hoping with that connection, I can get lucky and get back on the ball." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); STATISTICS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (55%) Labor; Part-Time Employment; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003 



595 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2434 words

HEADLINE: Stirring the Waters

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

DATELINE: NEWARK BAY 

 BODY:
PACKED to their decks with bananas and bath - robes - and brimming over in sugar, digital - cameras, Hyundais and other foreign imports - a stream of ships enters Newark Bay from the sea - beyond and through a couple of narrow channels, bound every day for local ports of call.
 The bay's waters froth with vessels, while docks in Newark, Bayonne, Elizabeth and Staten Island work to swallow the varied cargo, sending it out by truck and rail to consumers across the Eastern Seaboard.
 Last year, labor troubles in ports along the West Coast contributed to a measurable increase of sea traffic into New York Harbor and New Jerseys marine terminals. But these days, there is another flotilla on the water that is stirring up the bays bottom, local residents and a handful of environmental groups.
 In recent months, more than 80 dredging platforms, scoops and scows have collected on the bayscape, creating an interesting navigational course. The machinery is part of a controversial $3.2 billion project undertaken by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, and intended to deepen the harbor and its arteries. Ultimately, fleets of larger and more profitable commercial ships are expected. 
 The growth is coming, regardless of whether you dredge this harbor or not, said Joseph J. Seebode, the Army Corps environmental engineer overseeing the decade-long project, the biggest in local waters in half a century. Yet, in the course of digging deeper - in some cases from 35 feet - of water down to a projected 52 feet - the Corps has been pulling up clay, sand and polluted silt, often blasting bedrock and dredging up a raft of other complaints.
 Bayonnes mayor, Joseph V. Doria Jr., said that residents have reported cracks in their house foundations and plaster walls, and criticized the Army Corps for causing the damages.
 There are questions about the noise of this project, the vibrations from the blasting, said Mr. Doria, who is also a longtime Democratic state Assemblyman. We understand the economic need, but we think the Corps is unfortunately a bureaucracy that doesnt react to us quickly enough.
 Across the Kill Van Kull, the narrow channel separating Bayonne from Staten Island, the borough president, James P. Molinaro, said his view was much the same, although strongly tempered by the potential economic benefits.
 Certainly, there are people who are concerned and annoyed by the blasting, Mr. Molinaro said, before adding, others see it as a necessary evil that will bring the bigger ships and jobs to this port. We have to stay competitive with Norfolk, Halifax and the other Eastern ports.
 Still, environmental groups along New Jerseys coast have been the least willing to hoist a flag of approval. They cite a threat of ecological damages more subtle and farreaching than crumbling masonry, although no group has yet stepped forward to file a lawsuit and present evidence in court.
 While allowing that Newark Bay has been severely polluted for decades, groups including the Natural Resources Defense Council and New York-New Jersey Baykeeper contend the dredging is unnecessary and will ultimately prove harmful to fish, birds and shellfish that shelter in the waters.
 ''The Corps still thinks they're a storm-the-beaches operation that builds airfields under fire,'' said Andrew Willner, executive director of the nonprofit Baykeeper organization, based in Sandy Hook. ''We don't need that mindset here. The bay is an incredible-although injured-natural resource.''
 Mr. Willner contends that the Corps has failed to assess thoroughly the effects on blue crabs, lobsters, clams and other organisms that live on the bay's bottom.
 Moreover, he has raised questions about depletion of oxygen in the water and cloudiness from underwater digging. Either condition could reduce striped bass, bluefish, shad, winter flounder and other species.
 But he said the greatest risk would come from a reviving of contaminants now trapped in bottom sediments. Newark Bay has long been found to hold mercury and other heavy metals, petroleum waste, dioxins, pesticides and PCBs-the legacy of industries upstream.
 For its part, the Corps acknowledges the concern, but presents the project as an unsurpassed environmental boon, a chance to remove bottom pollution and clean a large swath of Newark Bay's waters once and for all. In an environmental assessment prepared in 1997, a Corps scientist considered the potential for disturbances to wildlife, but played down any lasting damages.
 ''Because there is widespread contamination in the bay sediments,'' the report concluded, ''the redistribution of a small quantity of contaminants in the bay would not appreciably alter the exposure levels of aquatic life to these contaminants.''
 Yet the same assessment recorded the Fish and Wildlife Service's questions about the welfare of peregrine falcons, until recently a federally listed endangered species, found to be nesting in the superstructure of the Bayonne Bridge. It raised concerns that ''contaminants could be transported through the food chain and result in adverse impacts'' to the falcons.

The Goal Is Purer Waters
 Despite the uncertainty, Mr. Seebode and other Corps officials maintain the deepening project will result in purer waters. All parties note that the bay's waters are currently closed to fishing, although it is suspected that some local anglers ignore the states health warnings.
 Some of the polluted sediment, according to the plan, would be sent to landfills in Kearny, Linden, Elizabeth, Carteret and the Hackensack Meadowlands. Other spoils have been shipped to a site in Bayonne, used to form a base for a planned waterside golf course. Still other sediment is destined to fill empty coal mines in Pennsylvania.
 Lastly, some of the spoils have also been marked for an underwater disposal pit, dug 80 feet into Newark Bay itself. The common thread between the sites is that all contaminants would be isolated from reaching New Jersey's ecosystem once again.
 The destinations represent a shift from just a decade ago, when dredged materials were dumped freely at sea. Cindy Zipf, executive director of the Clean Ocean Action Coalition, said that change came after a band of environmental groups, including the Coalition, filed suit against federal agencies in the 1990s to stop ocean dumping of highly polluted materials.
 ''There was a point about five miles off Sandy Hook that we called Mount Spike,'' she recalled. ''They began dumping in 80 feet of water. At the end, it was a mountain of polluted mud where ships ran aground.''
 Ms. Zipf said that a settlement halted the practice in 1996, and added that ''the Corps deserves a great deal of credit'' for finding new uses for dredged sediments. Indeed, the Newark Bay plan also calls for release of some spoils off Sandy Hook-but only virgin clay and rock, which is intended to trap older sediments at the site.
 ''We're the envy of the nation,'' she said. ''It's very satisfying to see that shift.''
 Other environmentalists agree that removal is a worthy goal, but still question the methods. The Army Corps has hired commercial dredging operators, who use clamshell buckets or machines not unlike large backhoes. As it is removed, some bottom silt often escapes back into the water. Because Newark Bay and its arteries are tidal, opponents of the project speculate that contaminants could then migrate.
 ''There are very, very large unaddressed questions,'' said Jennifer Danis, a staff attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York City.
 Ms. Danis put her concerns this way: ''The environmental assessment was extremely insufficient, and the Corps makes a lot of baseless claims. They're bringing up all sorts of sediments, and yet there were no toxic-plume studies. Where do they think that material is going to go?''
 For their part, Corps officials said they had determined that the amount of escaping silt would be minimal and not flow out with the tides.
 ''Our research has shown that resuspension is a non-issue,'' said Monte Greges, an oceanographer and chief of the dredged Material Management Section of the Corps for the New York District.
 At the last dredging bucket-now scheduled for 2013-about 53 million cubic yards of bottom will have been clawed, scooped or blown from the water.
 The areas under excavation include 5.4 miles of the Kill Van Kull, the channel that connects Upper New York Bay to Newark Bay; a section of the Arthur Kill, dividing Staten Island from mainland New Jersey, and leading to the Howland Hook Marine Terminal; the Port Jersey Channel in Jersey City and Bayonne; the Ambrose Channel leading from the ocean in to New York Harbor; and Newark Bay itself.

Dredging Goes Even Deeper
 Initially, the project had sought to deepen most areas to 41 or 47 feet. But a subsequent initiative would push that depth to 50 and 52 feet. Corps officials say the additional work reflects the reality of more ambitious shipyards, which are building vessels with deeper drafts. And while the dredging armada remains assembled, they reason, it is costeffective to continue to the lower depths.
 That argument has infuriated Mr. Willner and his fellow environmentalists, who believe the entire project is off-target.
 ''Does it make more sense to dredge Newark Bay or develop the deepwater terminals on the other side of Bayonne?'' asked Dery Bennett, former director of the American Littoral Society, which monitors coastal issues. ''The Corps is pretty good at this kind of work, and there's a lot of political support for this project. It has always been questionable whether theyve put all of their cards on the table.''
 Even so, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is bracing for a projected doubling in the volume of shipping in the next decade. Richard M. Larrabee, director of port commerce, said numbers of containers arriving in New York Harbor rose by 13 percent in 2001 alone, overtaking an expected annual growth rate of 4 percent.
 ''The deepening of the channels isn't causing the growth,'' said Mr. Larrabee. ''The dredging is a response to consumer demand in the region.''
 Then he explained: ''More and more of our manufactured goods are coming out of Asia, particularly from China. About 95 percent of those goods are coming to this country by water. We're operating the third-largest port in the United States, and, after the labor troubles on the West Coast, we believe that shippers are looking here, for ways to diversify.''
 Shipping firms have also applauded the dredging, saying the future lies in bigger vessels with deeper drafts, allowing beefier cargoes and therefore lower transportation costs. Currently, these superfreighters which can run 1,100 feet in length and carry 6,600 containers-either dock in deepwater ports or have to unload to smaller ships from more distant moorings, adding time and expense.
 ''Obviously, we're excited about the deepening of the harbor,'' said Tom Boyd, a spokesman for Maersk Sealand, a Danish shipping company that has its North American headquarters in Madison. It is estimated that Maersk handles a fourth of all containers entering New Jersey's marine terminals. Four years ago during a renegotiation of its lease, the company had threatened to move its operation to Baltimore's harbor.
 ''It's a national competitiveness issue,'' said Mr. Boyd, adding that the company already had 32 deep-draft vessels out of a fleet of 250. ''East Coast ports tend to be shallower than those out West, and it's clear that the viable ports of the future are going to have 50 feet of water.''

State Praises Role of Corps
 A final statement on the project's possible influence on the environment, prepared by the Army Corps in 1999, concluded that any ecological damage from dredging would be ''temporary'' and that ''repopulation of the area (by wildlife) will occur rapidly.''
 The same assessment found that an underwater habitat area of about 42 acres would probably be disturbed by the project, but suggested restoring similar, shallow-water habitat in other areas to offset the losses. In short, a sliver of destruction for a maximum of gain-the permanent removal of a portion of Newark Bay's polluted sediment.
 Bradley M. Campbell, commissioner of the state Department of Environmental Protection, said diesel engines used to power the dredging machinery had raised issues of air pollution, but that even those questions should be eased by further Corps improvements.
 ''You have to remember there are environmental victories reflected in this project,'' said Mr. Campbell. ''Ultimately, every container moved by ship and not by truck along the Eastern Seaboard is a victory for cleaner air.''
 He added that Corps plans displayed ''a beautiful use and reuse of dredged material.''
 Throughout the Newark Bay project, state environmental officials participated in evaluations and periodic inspections of the excavation, and issued a certificate to allow operations to begin.
 Mr. Campbell, a lawyer by training, dismissed any lasting threat from stirring the bottom muck. The coast also remains clear in the courts, although the question is still in play among some scientists not affiliated with the Army Corps.
 Dr. J. Frederick Grassle, director of the Rutgers Institute of Marine and Coastal Sciences, lamented what he termed to be a lack of academic studies for tracing the paths of revived sediments.
 For his part, Dr. Grassle advised the placement of equipment to measure the flow of bottom material, but acknowledged the Corps project had probably advanced too far to make such a study very practical.
 ''The problem is that its really terribly hard to measure the effects of flow around a dredging barge,'' he said. ''There may be cleaner ways to dredge than they're using, but it can be prohibitively expensive.''
 Framing the open environmental questions, Dr. Grassle, an oceanographer, concluded: ''In tidal situations such as in Newark Bay and the Kill Van Kull, you will get more mixing of sediments. Contaminants will be less concentrated, but they'll also travel farther. As far as I can see, the Corps has done everything they can do.''
 Matters are less open-ended for the Corps. Mr. Seebode, the engineer overseeing the huge project, noted that heavy rains in New Jersey and New York this year had caused an increasing load of sediments to flush down the Passaic River and other waterways that feed Newark Bay. More sediments are anticipated in New York Harbor, borne along by the Hudson River.
 ''We're looking at a banner year for dredging,'' said Mr. Seebode.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dredging New York and New Jersey harbors will mean fleets of larger and more profitable commercial ships. Newer and larger cranes have already been installed at Port Elizabeth, bottom left. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Areas under excavation include part of the Kill Van Kull
a section of the Arthur Kill
the Port Jersey Channel in Jersey City and Bayonne
the Ambrose Channel leading to New York Harbor
 and Newark Bay itself. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Map of New York highlighting contact dredging areas. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (75%); ENGINEERING (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MAYORS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2004



596 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
At Home (of Course) With a Telecommuter

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
SANDY APGAR doesn't just advocate telecommuting. He lives by it. 
 Mr. Apgar, 62, a director at Boston Consulting Group, has been working from a high-tech home office for much of the last decade while advising his big corporate clients on how they can maximize their use of real estate -- or even get rid of it when employees telecommute. 
 Tucked away near Ruxton, Md., a Baltimore suburb, his base of operations bears little resemblance to the nook, kitchen table or dual-purpose room that constitutes a typical home office. Mr. Apgar, whose full name is Mahlon Apgar IV, works adjacent to his home in a former garage that has been converted to a two-story building with offices, a conference room, a basic kitchen and bathroom. 
The office, really a collection of work stations, is equipped with computers and fax machines and has broadband access and separate fax and telephone lines; there is room for colleagues or visiting clients.
His support staff, however, is far-flung. His executive assistant works at the headquarters of Boston Consulting, his research assistant works at home in Atlanta and his speechwriter from her home near Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Mr. Apgar has been dealing with alternative work spaces since he was a child, and his life story is a history lesson of sorts in the development of telecommuting. 
As a boy, he said in a recent interview, he spent a lot of time "trotting around after my father," who, in the years after World War II, advised companies on moving operations outside of New York City. After college at Dartmouth, Mr. Apgar served in the Army and went overseas to study at Oxford. There, he read about the urban planner James W. Rouse. In the mid-1960's, he spent two summers working for Mr. Rouse's company just as his ambitious designs for a community of nine villages on 14,000 acres in Columbia, Md., were coming to fruition. 
Mr. Apgar then earned a business degree from Harvard Business School, where he was among the 20 students to take its first real estate course, then joined McKinsey & Company to build a corporate real estate and urban development practice. He moved to London, but just as he made partner in 1974, the Arab oil embargo began. "With the recession and general slowness, my clients were disappearing," he recalled.
He shifted his focus to work with the energy company Aramco, helping to plan vast new communities for expatriate staff members moving to Saudi Arabia. After he and his wife, Anne, returned to America in 1980, he set up his own consulting firm.
Mr. Apgar advised companies like Dun & Bradstreet and I.B.M. about rethinking traditional ways of locating, leasing and using buildings. 
"That experience evolved into my notions about the workplace itself," he said. About the same time, technology began to make working away from the main office more feasible.
Even so, he set up an office in downtown Baltimore. But "the combination of the commute, the expense and the fact that we were not there very much, made the whole equation questionable," he said. He and his colleagues at his consulting firm, Apgar & Company, were often on the road, spending only 20 percent of their time in the main office.
Mr. Apgar began working from a room inside his house. But with three children, including a newborn, in the home, "there was not enough psychological distance," he said -- even in the spacious library area where he first installed his computer. So he decided to convert the garage.
Zoning restrictions limited the height of the building and barred the installation of a full kitchen or bathroom. In the early 1990's, the office operated by phone and by fax. His colleagues were scattered around the area -- one in Baltimore, one in Annapolis, one in Columbia and one in Washington, D.C. To allow them the same flexibility he had, Mr. Apgar provided them with desktop computers, fax machines and a furniture subsidy. 
"We learned some basic lessons then," he recalled of that time, which preceded the rise of e-mail. "We talked every day by phone, but I soon learned that a faxed agenda was more effective" than spur-of-the-moment contacts.
Even so, he and his team found that something was missing. "Ultimately," he said, "the creative process does indeed need creative interaction" -- a problem solved by holding face-to-face sessions weekly.
Mr. Apgar left his consulting firm in June 1998 to spend two and a half years as an assistant secretary of the Army, managing one of the nation's biggest real estate portfolios. He joined Boston Consulting nearly two years ago and has continued to work from his home office.
Claudie Fanning, his research assistant, said practical problems could arise when working outside the office. "When you have to send things or make certain copies, then you have to get in your car and go to Kinko's," he said. "Then there is technical support -- what happens if your hard drive goes, or you have a problem with your broadband connection. It can chew up half a day."
BUT some of the biggest challenges are not readily apparent, Mr. Fanning said.
"You lack a water cooler so you have to plan interactions, to make people aware of you," he said. "And you have to be very intentional about career development because out of sight is often out of mind."
Still, telecommuting has become more popular over the years, and interest spiked after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. According to an estimate from the International Telework Association and Council, which tracks telecommuting, the number of wage earners who work exclusively from home has increased to roughly 17 million from 5.5 million a decade ago. 
Like many companies Mr. Apgar has advised, I.B.M. has adopted his strategies to save money. By the end of the 1990's, I.B.M.'s entire sales force could operate independently of the traditional workplace, eliminating travel time. From 1992 to 1997, the company's office costs dropped 42 percent, and real estate savings totaled $1 billion, he said.
But few senior executives, studies of top companies show, have followed Mr. Apgar's lead. "You can't underestimate the feeling of entitlement for that corner office," he said.
Kimberly Spires, Mr. Apgar's executive assistant at Boston Consulting's headquarters, said there were day-to-day challenges in working from home. There's an extra burden on both me and Sandy to make sure we're in contact since we're not down the hall," she said. But beyond that, the negative aspects of telecommuting are few, she said: "Not being able to work from my home -- that's a downside."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sandy Apgar consults on using a work force based outside the office. His home in suburban Baltimore is next to his office, a converted garage. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUTING (92%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); BROADBAND (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); CITIES (64%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Labor; Working at Home; Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Boston Consulting Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson; Sandy Apgar

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



597 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Old Dream and New Issues 40 Years After Rights March 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON and STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
The atmosphere was completely new to Raul Yzaguirre, a college student manning a first aid station at the March on Washington on Aug. 28, 1963. Raised in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, he had been active in the newly emerging Hispanic rights movement, and the gospel songs filling the air, the messages from the black civil rights leaders booming from the speakers' platform, were all unfamiliar.
 He was helping to carry a dehydrated woman on a stretcher when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. started to speak. "I stopped and asked her, 'Do you mind if I listen?' said Mr. Yzaguirre, 64, president of the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic advocacy organization. "She said no, she didn't mind, so I just put her down, right there, and began listening." 
 Forty years after the historic march, Mr. Yzaguirre's journey, from peripheral observer to an influential voice for an ethnic group that recently overtook African-Americans as the country's largest minority, is emblematic of the shifting landscape of the civil rights movement. 
As civil rights advocates, old and new, gather this weekend to commemorate what many consider the high point of the struggle for equal rights, they are also taking stock of the movement itself -- what it is today, how it got that way, and what it must say, do and become to maintain its relevance. Despite the significance of the anniversary, a rally commemorating the event drew only several thousands. Page 22. 
The current movement is made up of a sometimes unwieldy collection of groups with issues and interests inconceivable in 1963. They include women, the disabled, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans. For the first time since civil rights groups began commemorating the anniversary of the march, major conveners of today's march include the Arab American Institute and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. 
At the same time, the size and influence of the torch-bearing civil rights organizations behind the historic march has diminished, even as their rhetoric and tactics have been adopted by a host of new and disparate causes. The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, now led by Martin Luther King III, son of the slain civil rights leader, is a mere shadow of its former self. The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee is gone. Even the N.A.A.C.P nearly went bankrupt in the 1990's.
"It's a whole bevy of people who join what you could still call a movement, but it's something far broader -- less spontaneous maybe, but potentially more powerful," said Washington's delegate to Congress, Eleanor Holmes Norton, who helped organize the 1963 march.

More Voices, More Issues
 Still, the resulting conglomeration is rife with contradictions and challenges. It is a movement that is more diverse, yet less integrated. It is desirous of new blood, yet often out of touch with younger people. It is embracing new political causes, yet fighting to maintain its political influence. And many of the issues on the current agenda are far more subtle and complex, less easy to package, than the right to register to vote without fear of injury or death. 
A recent public service campaign, about housing discrimination by the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, founded in 1951, highlights the movement's more expansive reach. The radio and television commercials feature a series of prospective renters with strong accents and names like Juan Hernandez, Sanjay Kumar and Tyrone Washington all trying to view an apartment and being turned down on the phone, while the caller who "sounds white" is given an appointment.
"It's necessarily become much more inclusive," Karen Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium, said. "There are many more voices. But there are also more issues." 
In 1963 no one considered issues like the racial profiling of Arab-Americans, hate crime legislation for gays and lesbians, or welfare for illegal immigrants.
The broadening of the mandate has not come without tension. "There are some who fear that investing resources in the examination of issues faced by other communities dilutes attention from issues still faced by African-Americans," Ms. Narasaki said. 
The movement is also facing a public that is increasingly cool to many of its goals, like affirmative action. In a Gallup poll taken in June, 17 percent of black respondents said they believed that blacks have job opportunities equal to whites. In contrast, 55 percent of whites said they thought blacks and whites had equal chances for employment. 
"For many white people, the laws that were passed in the 1960's took care of everything," said Julian Bond, chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. "For them, they just shrug their shoulders and say, 'What's the problem? I don't get it.' "
Even the vocabulary of 40 years ago at times falls short of capturing the complexity of the issues championed today. For instance, said Randall Kennedy, a professor at Harvard Law School, a literal interpretation of the word "discrimination" can obscure the disadvantage brought about by historic inequality. The word "racism" does not capture detrimental attitudes or positions that are based on race or are racist.
"We need new lingo," Mr. Kennedy said. "Maybe what groups are fighting against today is subordination. Wielding the old words often lets people off the hook. It doesn't zero in on what is truly culpable in certain conduct."

An Economic Agend
 Some of the seeds of the current struggle for a broadly encompassing but focused message took root around the planning for the 1963 march. Organizers of the 40th-anniversary march promoted it as a march for jobs and freedom. 
When they think of the 1963 march, many people today only remember Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech and the calls for racial equality. In fact, access to jobs and eradication of poverty were the initial objectives of the rally. A. Philip Randolph, the influential president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, who called for the march, and Bayard Rustin, who organized it, originally conceived of it as a way to do something about the grinding poverty that afflicted not only blacks, but other groups as well.
"This civil rights demonstration is not confined to the Negro; nor is it confined to civil rights; for our white allies know that they cannot be free while we are not," Randolph said in his speech on the National Mall on the day of the march. "We know that we have no future in which six million black and white people are unemployed, and millions more live in poverty."
But the burning racial strife in the South in the early 1960's focused much of the attention during the march and in the years following on the call to end Jim Crow laws. 
In the next five years the primary legal goals of the movement were met with the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. But 40 years later, the liberal economic agenda championed by Randolph, Rustin and King remains stalled in the eyes of many. 
In many ways the march and the years directly after were the apex for traditional civil rights groups. Later in the 1960's and 70's, white liberals gravitated toward new moral crusades like opposing the Vietnam War, fighting for women's rights and protecting the environment. Black nationalists eschewed the nonviolent strategies of the old-line civil rights organizations.
The economic stagnation of the 70's and 80's made middle- and working-class whites less supportive of programs to help poor blacks and resentful of efforts like affirmative action that primarily helped middle-class blacks.
"It is one thing to be liberal minded about issues of equality in the 1960's, when the people you're talking about are clearly a subordinate class," said Ron Walters, a political science professor at the University of Maryland. "It is altogether different when the fruits of those efforts usher in a black middle class engaged in social competition for goods."
If the ranks of traditional black civil rights organizations have diminished over the years, it is largely as an outgrowth of their own success. Black intellectuals planned and organized the movements of the 60's. Today they cluster in a slew of black professional organizations, such as those for lawyers, doctors, engineers and journalists, which have sprung up with increasing educational and job possibilities. Others who would lend valuable strategic, financial and marketing skills to the movement are often siphoned off by the much better-paying private sector.
Gaining the right to vote turned the energy of many black people away from the civil rights protests and towards the political arena. In 1970, seven years after the March on Washington, there were 1,469 black elected officials in the United States, according to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, which studies black-oriented issues. By the year 2000, the number had reached more than 9,000. Some say there are still mass demonstrations of black people seeking to secure rights and advantages. They are now called elections. 
"And those are the best kinds of demonstrations to have," Ms. Norton said.

'We Just Acted'
 Some veteran civil rights advocates bemoan the lack of involvement in older organizations and causes as apathy born of privilege. "In 1963 we didn't have Web sites, cellular phones or fax machines," said Representative John Lewis of Georgia, 63, who as chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee was the youngest speaker at the march 40 years ago. "We just acted."
Many who came of age after the pivotal years of the movement argue that a change of focus and tactics is only natural. "Success today in motivating people is not necessarily defined by getting 100,000 people out to a march," said Nelson George, 45, an author, film producer and pop culture critic. "For some people it may be about 100,000 hits on a Web site. And that's O.K."
For all the talk of new rhetoric and new strategies, some scholars of the movement say its future lies with people who know little of its origins. 
Rogers M. Smith, a professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of "The Unsteady March: The Rise and Decline of Racial Inequality," said the movement's future would depend largely on how closely new immigrants identify with the goals of the civil rights struggle and how readily the movement embraces them. 
"All we need to do, really, is agree to a set of principles and stick to them," Mr. Yzaguirre said. "If a program is for the poor, then it should focus on all poor people. If we're going to have a diversity program, then it should be truly diverse. We can't accept a system anymore where any member is a junior partner."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at the 1963 march. Yesterday, his son called on listeners to champion his father's causes. (Photo by Reuters); The Rev. Al Sharpton with Coretta Scott King. He urged people to "take down the dream busters."; The rally was organized by an array of groups and kicked off a 15-month voter registration drive.; Crowds at the Lincoln Memorial on Saturday. The rally was part of a series of events commemorating the 40th anniversary of the March on Washington. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 22) Chart: "Four Decades: Gauging Progress"How blacks have fared by some indicators since the 1963 March on Washington. Graph tracks median household income adjusted for inflation in 2001 dollars.(Data not available before 1967.) Graph tracks percentage in poverty(data not available from 1960 to 1965) Graph tracks percentage completing four years of college Age 25 and over. Graph tracks percentage of blacks in selected professions: (laywers and judges, doctors, managers and owners, and all occupations.) All aforementioned graphs track both blacks and whites from 1960-2000. Graph tracks blacks in federal and state legislatures from 1960-2000.(data not available before 1970.) (Sources by Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies; Census Bureau; "Black Americans: A Statistical Yearbook," 2003 edition)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ARAB AMERICANS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ETHNICITY (67%) Blacks; Arab-Americans; Women; Homosexuality; Immigration and Refugees; Handicapped; Demonstrations and Riots; Hispanic-Americans; Indians, American; Asian-Americans; Affirmative Action; Welfare (US); Hate Crimes; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (57%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); AL SHARPTON (56%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (50%) Lynette Clemetson; Steven A Holmes

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States; Washington (DC); United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



598 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Eileen Gunn, Richard Lang

 BODY:
Eileen Patricia Gunn, a daughter of Constance M. Gunn and Joseph T. Gunn of Queens Village, was married last evening to Richard Daniel Lang, the son of Margaret Lang of Manhattan and the late Richard Lang. Karen Schofield-Leca, an adjunct leader of the Washington Ethical Society in Washington, officiated at the Boat House in Prospect Park in Brooklyn. 
 Ms. Gunn, 32, is keeping her name. She is a freelance business journalist. She graduated from New York University. Her father is a vice president of Hamond Group Inc., an insurance services company in Lake Success, N.Y. Her mother is an administrative assistant in human resources at Queens College. 
 Mr. Lang, 36, is the program manager for worldwide records management in the Manhattan offices of I.B.M. He received bachelor's degrees from American University in economics and in international studies. He received a law degree from Fordham University. His mother is a sales consultant for the Marcel Watch company. His father operated a grocery concession at the military base on Governors Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (90%) GUNN, EILEEN PATRICIA; LANG, RICHARD DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



599 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Crime and Punishment; 
Sentences Are Too Long or Too Short. Rarely, Just Right.

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
JERALD SANDERS, 48, will spend the rest of his life in an Alabama prison because he stole a $16 bicycle. He had a five-year history of burglaries, none of them involving violence, and that record was enough under the state's habitual offender law to require a judge to send him away forever.
 Since California enacted a law requiring tough sentences for many third offenses in 1994, the trend in many states has been toward long, fixed sentences, even for nonviolent crimes. 
 Critics have called long sentences like these unjust, arbitrary and disproportionately aimed at young black men and drug offenders. Earlier this month, Supreme Court Justice Anthony M. Kennedy joined the debate in an unusually blunt speech at a lawyers convention. 
"In too many cases," he said, "mandatory minimum sentences are unwise and unjust." 
It is one thing, though, to say that some sentences are too long. The hard question is, what sentence is optimal? What kind of sentences deter crime?
By international standards, Justice Kennedy said, incarceration rates in the United States are exceptionally high. In Western Europe, about one in 1,000 people is in prison. The corresponding number here is 1 in 143. But there is far more crime here, said Steven D. Levitt, an economist at the University of Chicago. 
"If you look at punishment per crime, it's very similar," he said.
Moreover, Professor Levitt said, the mandatory minimums have worked. "There is now overwhelming evidence that locking up criminals has the effect of reducing crime," he said.
In 1982, for example, California, passed a law that increased sentences for some crimes, and in the next three years those crime rates dropped faster compared to other crime rates, according to a study co-authoredby Professor Levitt. 
"Our results suggest," the study concluded, "that, if enforced, three-strikes laws and other sentence enhancements may be a cost-effective approach to fighting crime."
Professor Frank O. Bowman, a law professor at Indiana University and an author of a treatise on sentencing, largely agreed -- up to a point.
"Increased incarceration drives down crime levels, but that's mostly a function of incapacitation," he said, referring to the effect of keeping given criminals off the street rather than scaring potential criminals with harsh punishments. "A very small percentage of people commit a disproportionate number of crimes."
EVEN so, how long should prisoners be imprisoned? Criminals tend to commit most of their offenses when they are young.
"We know that criminal careers taper off with age," wrote Richard A. Posner, a federal appeals court judge in Chicago, in a 1987 decision. Judge Posner cited robbery statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which suggested that more than 60 percent of all robberies were committed by people under 25, and only 3 percent by people over 60.
Judge Posner asked whether exceptionally long sentences deter potential criminals more than shorter, but still significant ones.
"We should ask how many 35-year-olds would rob a bank if they knew that if they were caught it would mean 20 years in prison without parole, compared with the number who would do so if it would mean life in prison," Judge Posner wrote. "Probably very few would be deterred by the incremental sentence."
Many law enforcement officials agree, but nevertheless endorse extra-long sentences because of the leverage they provide in plea negotiations.
"One of the key developments in the fight against organized crime was exceptionally long sentences for drug crimes," said Jamie Orenstein, a former federal prosecutor. "People who got caught in drug cases flipped quickly, because their options were so bad."
Some studies have concluded that potential criminals care much more about the likelihood they will be caught than about the potential punishment if they are.
"The certainty of the sentence is much more important that the length of the sentence," said James Q. Wilson, emeritus professor of management and public policy at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Nonetheless, Professor Wilson generally supports tough sentences, not for reasons of deterrence, but for retribution. "You can't calculate sentences simply by their deterrent value," he said. "It would not satisfy public concern for justice."
He gave an example: If it were determined that rapes could be effectively deterred by one-month prison sentences, society would nonetheless be justified in imposing substantially longer ones.
But there is a fine line between retribution and degradation, some critics say.
In his speech, Justice Kennedy cited the book, "Harsh Justice" by James Q. Whitman of Yale law school, who talked about how the American penal system, with its long sentences in harsh settings, has become intoxicated with treating an entire class of people as inferior, as vermin. 
"Professor Whitman concludes that the goal of the American corrections system is to degrade and demean the prisoner," the justice said. That, Justice Kennedy said, is "not acceptable in a society founded on respect for the inalienable rights of the people."
In the end, though, the debate over the proper calculation of sentences may be driven not by crime rates or by vengeance. 
Several financially strapped states, including Kansas, Texas and Washington, have eased sentencing laws in the past year, and Michigan scrapped mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses. 
Others, including Kansas and California, have new laws mandating drug treatment rather than prison for nonviolent drug offenses. 
"Many of the states have gone through cycles -- three-strikes laws, mandatory minimum sentences, raising sentences -- and it's been tremendously expensive," said Professor Bowman. "States have to balance their budgets, and the relative cost of prisons is quite high."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tomasz Walenta) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); BURGLARY (90%); PRISONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TRENDS (89%); ROBBERY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (86%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EVIDENCE (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); WRITERS (61%) Crime and Criminals; Sentences (Criminal)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (69%) Adam Liptak

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 



600 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Quick Change; 
States Balance Budgets With Blue Smoke and Mirrors

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DESPERATE to close a $2 billion budget gap, Gov. Rod Blagojevich and the Illinois Legislature have put up for sale one of the state's prized assets -- the James R. Thompson Center, a flashy, 17-story office building in the heart of the Loop in downtown Chicago. 
 In New Jersey, a payment to school districts scheduled for June was postponed until July 1 so it would fall in the next fiscal year, allowing the state to show a saving on paper of nearly $300 million in fiscal year 2003. 
 In Missouri, janitors were recently told to unscrew every third light bulb in the halls and lobbies of government buildings to lower the electricity bill. 
Such is the state of state budgets nowadays. Partly because of the weak economy but even more because of states' eroding tax base and mushrooming health costs, almost every state is facing a serious budget crunch. "The stress is just huge, by far the worst we've ever seen," said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association.
A few states, notably New York, raised taxes this year. A few others like Florida made real cuts in public education and health care, which eat up the bulk of state budgets. In California, political opponents of Gov. Gray Davis proclaimed the state's huge budget shortfall evidence of the governor's incompetence and mounted a recall campaign against him.
But the vast majority of states refused to bite the bullet and plugged the gaps with borrowed money or fiscal gimmicks. "The way they look at it," said Harley Duncan, executive director of the Federation of Tax Administrators, "is how can we buy time and make it the problem of the next generation of politicians?"
Some might say that is short-sighted. But looked at in the best possible light, most states met their budget problems with enduring American values: thrift, virtue, compassion and ingenuity. To wit:

THRIFT
Unscrewing the light bulbs in Missouri "obviously doesn't save very much," said Linda Luebbering, the state's deputy commissioner for budget and planning, "but there is a specific budget for state office buildings, and this helped them to live within it."
In Oregon, agencies were told to buy no new furniture or magazine subscriptions. 
In South Carolina, the Forestry Commission turned to volunteers to maintain the trails at Harbison State Forest.
In Virginia, prisoners now receive only two meals a day on weekends and holidays, and prisoners in Texas get meals with only 2,500 calories a day instead of 2,700. Kansas and Michigan, among others, are cutting printing costs by posting official documents on the Internet.

VIRTUE
Averse to raising income and sales taxes, their main revenue sources, many states have felt free to raise sin taxes.
Fifteen states raised tobacco taxes this year -- but not North Carolina, where legislators refused even to consider an increase in its tax of 5 cents per pack. (By one estimate, a 50-cent increase -- the national average is 73 cents a pack -- would have raised $374 million, almost enough to cover the state's entire shortfall.) 
Four states raised taxes on alcoholic beverages. New Jersey and Illinois raised taxes on casinos.
Minnesota increased the surcharge on parking fines by $3. Massachusetts imposed a $25 surcharge on speeding tickets. Arkansas doubled the fee drivers must pay to get their license back after it has been suspended for drunken driving.

COMPASSION
Seven states plan tax amnesties this year. The rules vary but basically tax scofflaws are told that if they pay what they owe within a specific period of time, penalties, interest and punishment will be waived. 
The states are counting on a bonanza from this. For example, Florida is planning a windfall of $75 million; Illinois and Virginia, $40 million; and Texas, $50 million.

INGENUITY
Many states are showing big savings on paper that have little basis in reality. For example, no one has come forward to buy the state office building in Chicago. The massive atrium, designed by the architect Helmut Jahn to project accessibility, is a cost-eater that reduces the attractiveness to landlords. But putting the building on the market allowed the state to show savings on paper of $200 million. If it does not pan out -- well, that can be addressed another day.
New Jersey is not the only state that shifted payments and receipts from one fiscal year to another. Kansas also shifted a school payment to July from June and advanced a deadline for paying property taxes to June from July. Many other states played similar tricks, which, of course, save no real money.
At least 20 states have issued bonds backed by their share of the $246 billion, 25-year settlement reached with tobacco companies in 1998. Many fiscal experts say this is folly. For example, Wisconsin stood to receive $5.9 billion in tobacco money over 25 years, or $236 million a year. Last year, it sold the entire amount for $1.3 billion to balance its 2003 budget. Nothing was left for budget writers this year or after. 
"The odd thing," said Alan Ehrenhalt, editor of Governing, a magazine that specializes in the affairs of state governments, "is that people who wouldn't consider raising taxes think there's nothing wrong with mortgaging the future of their state."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); EXCISE TAX (74%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (64%); BONDS (62%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%) States (US); Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Taxation; Government Bonds

PERSON: ROD BLAGOJEVICH (73%) David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003 

 
