

801 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: MINORITY BUSINESS SET BACK SHARPLY BY COURTS' RULINGS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 22

 BODY:
After being nurtured for a decade by state and local governments that set aside a portion of their contracts for minority businesses, thousands of such companies have closed or are foundering in the aftermath of court rulings that the racial preferences are unconstitutional.
At least two dozen cities, from Philadelphia to Portland, Ore., have suspended the set-aside programs voluntarily or under court orders. So have many states, including New York, New Jersey and California. And similar programs are being challenged in court or are under administrative review in most of the 32 states, 200 cities and countless counties and public authorities that have them. 
 "We're talking drastic," said Ralph C. Thomas 3d, executive director of the National Association of Minority Contractors in Washington. "Thousands of minority businesses went under or were neutralized, and thousands of strong businesses became weak. Most of the minority community's business comes from government programs, and when these programs are struck down, they no longer have a place to sell their goods and services."
 
The Phone Stopped Ringing
 Minority contractors, state and local officials, and others involved in these programs say the court rulings are not the only reason for the plight of minority businesses. Various experts cite the nationwide recession, the tax squeeze on state and local governments, the persistence of racism and the relative inexperience of many minority entrepreneurs, who set up their companies expressly to take advantage of such programs.
But many minority companies saw their business fall to almost nothing as soon as courts ruled that the preference programs were unconstitutional.
Carole E. Robinson, whose small company was supplying $450,000 a year worth of toilet parts, refinishing products and fire extinguishers to Philadelphia city agencies, said her phone suddenly stopped ringing on April 5, 1990, the day a Federal court here struck down the city's set-aside program. Her annual sales are now $45,000.
The wave of suspensions and cancellations began with the United States Supreme Court's ruling in January 1989 invalidating a city law in Richmond that set aside 30 percent of public works contracts for minority companies. In a vote of 6 to 3, the Justices held that the law violated the right of white contractors to equal protection of law.
The Court did not outlaw such programs, but it said they must have a well-documented basis to withstand constitutional challenges. Among other things, the Court said discriminatory business practices must be proved to exist before a government could set aside contracts for minority companies, and then the remedial program must be narrowly designed to address the discrimination.
The ruling did not affect Federal set-aside programs, which continue to pump billions of dollars a year into businesses owned by minority members and women. Congress has broad discretion under the Constitution to decide what the country needed to promote racial equality, the Court said.
 
Rewriting the Laws
 A wave of new set-aside programs, remodeled according to the Court's criteria, has begun to move across the country, but it remains to be seen whether the new programs will survive legal challenges. Opponents of such programs, including construction trade associations and conservative policy analysts, say the revised programs are as poorly conceived as the old ones.
Hubert Beatty, executive vice president of the Association of General Contractors, which has 32,000 members, mostly small businesses, said his organization had always opposed set-aside programs, even ones designed to assist small businesses without regard to race. "We are not a racist organization," he said. "We believe that the open, competitive bidding system can work fairly to the advantage of all."
As in many other cities, black entrepreneurs in Philadelphia have been hit hard by the upheaval in set-aside programs. After the city's 1983 law was revoked, these struggling companies saw their share of the city's contracts shrink to 3.5 percent in the fiscal year 1991, which ended June 30, from 25 percent in 1990. In the same period, the value of city contracts awarded to minority companies in open bidding shrank to $21.3 million from $65 million.
In October 1991, a Federal appellate court here reinstated the city's law, pending a second review by the district court. But city officials say that in the intervening 19 months many of the 1,421 businesses taking part in the city's program shriveled like Ms. Robinson's or failed completely. The program is in chaos, but officials say they are starting to gear it up again.
Black entrepreneurs created most of these companies to participate in the city's affirmative action program, and without it, they say they could not compete against more experienced, better-financed white-owned companies.
Black business leaders here and around the country say that racial barriers prevent minority members from obtaining business loans and performance bonds, as well as entering into partnerships with white companies.
Many of these entrepreneurs, like Ms. Robinson, had never competed in the open market. When the set-aside law was revoked, she suddenly had to compete with major industrial suppliers and manufacturers, and the big companies placed bids that were 20 percent below her wholesale cost. "We weren't able to be competitive in any way, shape or form," she said.
 
'That's Discrimination'
 Other black business leaders here saw signs of racism, after the law was revoked last year, in the abrupt way white contractors stopped sharing city contracts with minority subcontractors. "If a white contractor can use you when there is a law on the books and as soon as it's ruled unconstitutional, they drop you, that's discrimination," said John H. Simon, president of the United Minority Enterprise Associates, a trade association for black building contractors.
He said that a third of the association's 300 member companies went out of business within a month of the April 1990 court ruling and that most others were struggling to survive.
Jihad A. Ali, who started a construction company here in 1986 with $500, said the minority business program was the only way he could have stayed in business. "Without it, I would have just been another handyman," he went on. "There has to be a program to make up for 400 years of injustice in our country's history."
Set-aside programs were first adopted by Federal agencies in the Nixon Administration, and by the late 1980's they had spread around the country. (New York is one of the few major cities that never had such a law.) Black-owned businesses, the primary beneficiaries, flourished. Their number increased by 38 percent, from 308,000 in 1982 to 424,000 in 1987, and they saw a 100 percent increase in gross receipts, from $10 billion to $20 billion, according to the Census Bureau.
But studies by state and Federal agencies, summarized in a 1986 report by the United States Civil Rights Commission, found that the set-aside programs failed to help minority businesses compete in the open marketplace. The studies estimated that minorities' bids ranged between 5 and 10 percent higher than competitive market bids.
 
Seeking Better Management
 The report also concluded that the programs were costly to administer, poorly monitored and vulnerable to fraud and abuse. Up to 25 percent of the companies, it said, were illegal front operations for white companies or minority brokerages that obtained contracts but did none of the actual work. The commission, which came under intense criticism for its opposition to set-aside programs, never officially endorsed the report.
Such criticisms have been shared by people who do not oppose the programs in principle. "The criticism of these programs is right on the mark," said Charles Royer, director of the Institute of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government and a Democratic Mayor of Seattle in the 1980's. "But we have a responsibility to rectify discrimination, and I don't know what the alternative is except having better-managed programs."
Many cities are devising new programs in response to the Supreme Court's 1989 decision. Chicago, Tampa, Fla., and Seattle have done studies to meet the Court's standards by documenting that minority companies have suffered from discriminatory business practices.
Atlanta's new program, enacted in September, is intended to help minority members and women obtain performance bonds for construction work, enter joint ventures with established companies and get help obtaining prompt payment. The new program also gives incentives to white contractors who use black companies in private projects.
These improvements are the silver lining in the Supreme Court's decision, said Franklin M. Lee, chief counsel for the Minority Business Enterprise Legal Defense and Education Fund, an advocacy group in Washington.
"A lot of minority firms have bitten the dust," he said, "but I think ultimately we will be better off because the Supreme Court has forced jurisdictions to take a hard look at why minority firms are not succeeding the way they should be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jihad A. Ali: Started construction company in Philadelphia in 1986 with $500. "The minority business program was the only way I could stay in business -- without it, I would have just been another handyman." He is shown with a worker, William Brown, left.; Carole E. Robinson: Started a building maintenance supply company in Philadelphia in 1984. "We weren't able to be competitive in any way, shape or form," she said of the situation that existed after a Federal court overturned an affirmative action program that had helped her business survive. (Photographs by Bill Cramer for The New York Times) (pg. A15)
 
Graph: "Minority Contracts; Boom, Then Bust" shows contracts awarded each fiscal year by Philadelphia city agencies for public works from '85 to '91 (Source: Philadelphia Minority Business Enterprises Council) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); CONTRACTS MINORITY BUSINESSES (95%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); EQUAL PROTECTION (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



802 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2480 words

HEADLINE: Brutal Impasse: The Yugoslav War A Special Report.;
Yugoslav Ethnic Hatreds Raise Fears of a War Without an End

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Yugoslavia, Dec. 18

 BODY:
The six-month civil war in Yugoslavia has killed thousands of soldiers and civilians, wrecked Eastern Europe's most promising economy, created half a million refugees and stirred enough hatred to incite generations of future conflict. But it has not yet produced a decisive military result.
The Serbian-dominated Yugoslav Army and its allies, the Serbian militias and irregulars, are bogged down after seizing control of a third of the separatist republic of Croatia and have recently withdrawn from several forward positions. Meanwhile, the hurriedly organized Croatian army is beginning to score some minor victories, raising hopes among politicians in Zagreb, the Croatian capital, that the lost lands may some day be regained. 
 Analysts say that with neither side able to land a knockout blow, and with neither apparently willing to negotiate, the elements are in place for a protracted struggle between Serbia and Croatia, the two largest Yugoslav republics.
"This is a recipe for war without end," said John Zametica, a fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. "It's going to get much worse. So far, we've had a bit of a tea party compared to what's coming."
Many diplomats and observers fear the war could worsen as a result of Germany's successful campaign to extend diplomatic recognition to Croatia and Slovenia, the other republic that declared its independence in June. This week Bonn prodded its more reluctant allies in the 12-nation European Community to agree to recognize by Jan. 15 any independence-minded Yugoslav republic that respects human rights, established borders and the peaceful arbitration of differences.
The German Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, has argued that sanctions against Serbia, coupled with diplomatic recognition of Croatia and the political support it implies, will slow or stop the violence. Croats generally view recognition as a means to buy better weapons or to obtain military protection from the West.
 
Fears About Recognition>
 American diplomats, among others, said they opposed recognition because it could prompt the Yugoslav Army to begin a fresh offensive before Croatia imports new weapons, or could lead to new clashes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the republic that shares borders with Croatia and Serbia.
Already Croats, Serbs and Muslims are arming themselves in Bosnia, where the ethnic segments of the population are separated village by village and street by street. [Bosnia announced on Dec. 20 that it would seek independence, a step the armed Serb minority in the republic has declared it will not accept.]
The Yugoslav Army, on paper, has the weapons to prevail in the battle for Croatia, but it has performed badly, both because of poor leadership and a lack of reliable infantry. The army's strategy has been to blast away at urban areas with long-range artillery and at times with fighter-bombers.
Croatian troops, fighting to protect their homeland, are generally seen as more motivated, although they lack air power, armor and long-range artillery to support frontal assaults against the dug-in army forces. Armed with small weapons and whatever heavier weapons they can capture or smuggle in despite a United Nations arms embargo, the Croats are primarily waging a guerrilla struggle in the fields and mountains, using mines, antitank weapons and small-arms fire for house-to-house fighting. They have been increasingly successful at shooting down army planes with Yugoslav-designed antiaircraft cannons.
The main issue is geography: The millions of Serbs living outside Serbia live in geographically disparate areas. To link them up in one nation, the army must take large swaths of territory within Croatia and retain control over the Bosnian lands in the middle.
 
The Antecedents
Nationalism Is Used For Political Ends
 Yugoslavia was born in 1918 when the independent nation of Serbia was willingly joined by Croatia and Slovenia, both of which were previously part of the Austro-Hungarian empire.
The border between Serbia and Croatia had been the dividing line between East and West for centuries. Serbs lived under the Turkish Ottoman empire, practiced the Orthodox religion and wrote in Cyrillic while Croats were primarily Catholic and rendered their common language in the Roman alphabet.
Tensions building throughout the 1930's exploded after the German defeat of Yugoslavia in World War II. A Nazi-installed puppet state in Croatia built concentration camps in which Serbs, Jews and gypsies were killed. Civil war broke out, and massacre followed massacre on all sides. Hatred and distrust linger to this day.
Marshal Tito, the partisan leader, emerged as Yugoslavia's leader after the war and subdued nationalist feelings for the next three decades with a combination of adroit maneuvering and repression. Tito's death in 1980 left the country without a successor or system of government, and his former colleagues in the Communist Party began turning to nationalism in the late 1980's as means of winning power.
 
Few Casualties in Slovenia
 Until this year, Yugoslavia consisted of six republics, each of which had a constitutional right to secede, although procedures for the move have never been spelled out. Two republics, Croatia and Slovenia, unilaterally declared independence on June 25, beginning a breakdown in central government authority and leading to conflict.
The Slovenes immediately threw up international border crossings, prompting the Yugoslav National Army to intervene. With compact borders and almost no minorities, Slovenia prevailed in fighting that left fewer than 50 dead. Slovenia's desires for independence will almost certainly be met next month because of the republic's strong ties to the West and the peace that reigns within its borders.
Croatia's escape from Yugoslavia, though, has proved far more complicated. Many of the republic's 600,000 Serbs, about 12 percent of the population, have declared that they will not remain as a minority in an independent Croatia.
Fears among Serbs living outside Serbia were abetted by Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, a former Communist who rode to power in the republic's first multiparty elections on a platform of Serbian pride and nationalism. The Croatian President, Franjo Tudjman, won a similarly nationalistic campaign in the spring of 1990 and did little after taking office to ease the Serbs' fears that they would soon lose their jobs and be harassed.
 
Stockpiling Weapons
 By the summer of 1990, the largely Serbian region south of Zagreb called Krajina began an insurgency against the new Croatian government. Serbs in Slavonia, the prosperous agricultural land in the east of Croatia, were less well organized. Still, each Serbian village there had barricades and local militias by April of this year.
Initially, the links between the Yugoslav Army and Serbian irregulars were covert. As spring turned to summer, the army became increasingly open its support of the Serbs, fighting side by side with them. The Serb irregulars stormed across the Danube in July, taking the first towns on the Croatian side of the river in a fierce battle. Some Croatian territory nearby fell without a shot being fired.
In fall, the Croats took a gamble. They barricaded the Yugoslav Army barracks on their territory and captured significant supplies of ammunition and some tanks when several surrendered.
 
The Army
Problems of Funds And Competency
 Of the main actors in the Yugoslav conflict, the army has perhaps the most obscure intentions. It has at different times announced that its intent is to protect Serbs in Croatia, fight fascism, free comrades in barricaded barracks and preserve Yugoslavia.
Most observers believe that the army's true goal is to preserve its pensions and perks. About half of the federal budget went to the army before the fighting broke out, with disproportionate shares contributed by Slovenia and Croatia, the two richest republics.
Gen. Anton Tus, the former army officer who now leads the Croatian army, explained the motivation of the Yugoslav Army this way: "We have a state, if it hasn't been fully recognized, and now we are creating an army. Our enemy doesn't have a state, but they exist as an army trying to create a state to belong to."
 
Relying on Irregular Troops
 Before the war, the Yugoslav Army had 169,000 regular troops, of whom 70,000 were professional officers and 95,000 were conscripts. The fighting in Slovenia in the summer brought a wave of desertions by Croats and Slovenes. The army responded with the mobilization of Serbian reservists, an estimated 100,000 of whom evaded the draft. Those who were inducted seemed to have little stomach for battle; Western correspondents have seen army reservists refusing to leave their armored personnel carriers to engage the enemy. As a result, the army has been forced to rely on irregular troops who are enthusiastic about combat but undisciplined.
The army has shown little ability to coordinate its air power, armor and infantry and appears to have growing difficulties in maintaining its tanks and planes. Command and control appear to be weak. On one recent occasion, the army leadership acknowledged that the Croatian city of Dubrovnik was shelled by rogue local units acting without authority.
"They're having terrible manpower problems; no one wants to fight," said Milos Vasic, military writer for the Belgrade magazine Vreme. "Practically every day we have incidents of reserve troops coming back from the front on their own."
 
Vukovar as a Symbol
 The 86-day siege of the Croatian city of Vukovar near the Danube became a symbol of the army's incompetence. While the civilian population stayed below ground in shelters, the army poured in the artillery. The aim was to reduce casualties, but the effect was to create more hiding places for Croatian defenders, who inflicted heavy casualties in house-to-house fighting. General Tus said Vukovar fell on Nov. 17 only when the Croats decided that the amount of ammunition being used to defend the city outweighed its strategic value.
[It is not clear exactly how the army will be paid in the coming year. Ante Markovic, the federal Prime Minister, finally resigned on Dec. 19 after rejecting a proposed budget that earmarked 81 percent of Government revenue for the military. Under the proposal, a looming deficit would be bridged by printing money.]
 
The Croats
Rejecting Prospect Of Land for Peace
 Political figures inside and outside the government of President Tudjman agree that his hold on power is safe only as long as he does not give up any of the territory taken by the Serbs and the army. These days, the Croats are eager to offer local Serbs complete political autonomy and other concessions within an independent Croatia. Mario Nobilo, a senior adviser to Mr. Tudjman, said talks about trading land for peace were out of the question.
"Too many people have died," Mr. Nobilo said. "No one in Croatia would survive politically if they did that."
Croatia began organizing its military force only this year. It lacks most of the essentials needed for effective fighting, including an experienced officer corps, air power, trained troops and effective communications.
A United Nations arms embargo has severely limited Croatian military options. Some Croatian politicians dream of buying aircraft or tanks once European nations accord diplomatic recognition. General Tus, the commander, has a wish list that is more modest: antiarmor and antiaircraft weapons.
 
The Serbs
A Nation Called 'Greater Serbia'
 Most observers agree that the Serbs hold the key to the conflict's duration.
Mr. Milosevic faces competitors on the right. Vojislav Seselj, a former human rights advocate, heads a party with hopes for a "Greater Serbia," a nation with borders that would include most Serbs and an outlet to the sea.
Mr. Seselj's followers are doing a lot of the fighting and may demand a greater share of political power in return. European diplomats see in this the seeds of a possible civil war in Serbia. Croatian strategists acknowledge that their best chance for a quick end to the war would be major political unrest in Serbia.
Mr. Milosevic is facing other pressures. A trade embargo has led to long lines and severe shortages of gasoline, and the fevered printing of money to pay for the war has ignited hyperinflation. Many Belgrade residents grumble that the Serbs living outside the republic have dragged Serbia into an unwise conflict.
Nonetheless, there appear to be sufficient numbers of young men who hate Croats, or believe the government's claims about leading a crusade against resurgent fascism on its borders.
 
'Collective Psyche' of Serbs
 Some observers with the European Community argue that the Serbian-dominated army could be deterred by one or two shows of military force. Mr. Zametica, the analyst in London, said such action was unrealistic.
"No one in the West understands the Serbs," he said. "They have in their collective psyche certain characteristics, such as defiance, and an attitude that 'if necessary we will take on the entire world.' "
Even if Mr. Milosevic eventually agrees to a peace treaty, it is not clear that the Serbs in the Krajina region and elsewhere will follow. Two Serbian regions in Croatia have already declared themselves independent republics.
 
The Possibilities
More Casualties, But Some Hope
 Every day after the mist lifts, the Yugoslav Army looses an artillery barrage on the eastern Croatian city of Osijek. The shells fall on the hospital, the town square and apartments, typically killing a half-dozen people, usually civilians. The intent appears to drive civilians out of a city that was 66 percent Croatian before the war. Thousands have left, but many stay, living in shelters.
At night, small groups of Croatian fighters fan out from Osijek toward the army lines for hit-and-run attacks. About 100 miles east, the poorly trained troops of Croatia's army begin a frontal assault against heavily fortified positions south of Zagreb. They shoot at the enemy, and one another, taking heavy casualties but little territory.
The outlook is that these two forces will continue to pound each other. Most analysts expect the Croats to improve over time. Their goal of reclaiming the heavily fortified territory held by the army inevitably means fierce fighting and heavy casualties.
Mr. Vasic, the military writer, expressed the hope that the economic facts of life might finally hit home. With Serbia's economy in ruins, the Serbs in Croatia may soon decide that it is better to make peace and focus on restoring the tourist industry.
"This is the Balkans," he said. "But we cannot rule out the possibility of a rational approach."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Croatian soldier armed with a shotgun manned a barricade yesterday outside his headquarters near Osijek. The Serbian-dominated Yugoslav Army and its allies are bogged down after seizing control of a third of separatist Croatia and have recently withdrawn from several forward positions. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A8)
 
Map of Yugoslavia highlighting Serbian-held areas of Croatia (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA); SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); SLOVENIA (YUGOSLAVIA) ; GERMANY CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (76%); POLITICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



803 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Could've, Should've, Would've: Abrupt End to Cuomo Dream

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
"LITTLE BIG MAN" was Thomas L. Berger's novel about a hero whose stature exceeded his height and whose innocence vanished as he navigated conflicting cultures. It could also be the characteristically ambiguous title of Mario M. Cuomo's abbreviated Presidential campaign biography.
Mr. Cuomo's version ended abruptly Friday with a question mark: 
 Was his stature magnified by a principled decision to give up the Presidency to save his state from insolvency? Or was Mr. Cuomo diminished because, having framed his internal debate too narrowly, he relinquished an opportunity to contribute more to the nation and, consequently, to his constituents in New York?
The Governor had crafted two statements Friday. One, a preface to the campaign, was an eloquent rationale for his candidacy. The other was an afterword in which he concluded that while he could have been a contender, he could not, morally or politically, have run for President by running out on New York.
"Short of being a priest, government is the ideal place for him because it provides an opportunity to do good the way he sees it," said his friend and adviser, Fabian Palomino. "He'd rather lose for the right reasons than win for the wrong ones."
Which is why the unconventional alternative that the Governor chose Friday was, in retrospect, so consistent and unsurprising.
Four years ago, Mr. Cuomo's Presidential aspirations were even shorter-lived. At a Christmas party, when he denied even imagining himself in a national campaign, a skeptical reporter retorted: "I may never get a sable coat, but I can still dream about it." To which Mr. Cuomo replied: "The difference between you and me is that if I don't dream about it I won't be disappointed."
But as Bill Moyers once said about Nelson Rockefeller, if Mr. Cuomo had lost his ambition, he also remembered where he put it. Earlier this year, the Governor and Vincent Tese, his economic development commissioner, began drafting a national recovery plan.
On Oct. 7, four days before he publicly acknowledged that he had begrudgingly told a supporter that he would think about running, he phoned Robert Shrum, a media consultant whose advice he had solicited four years earlier. Mr. Cuomo chatted with Mr. Shrum's wife, Marylouise Oates, about her novel, "Making Peace." Then the Governor ungrudgingly told Mr. Shrum that he was considering a Presidential campaign.
"Without any plans to make plans," he said later, "I made a plan."
By Thanksgiving, Mr. Cuomo had all but decided to run. He had still not completely made peace with himself, though. He was already reconciled to retaining the governorship, regardless, but only if he could assure the state's solvency by closing this year's deficit and, he hoped, next year's, too.
During budget negotiations, as he had consistently on the death penalty, he took the less politically popular side of a fundamental national debate: preferring to prune payments to social-service providers and to pare school aid -- a cut that would mean higher local taxes -- rather than to slash benefits to the poor.
But, all along he figured Republican leaders of the State Senate would capitulate because, facing legislative elections themselves in 1992, it was also in their best interests to deal with the deficit early. Last week, he declared that if the Republicans held the budget hostage to his Presidential ambitions, then he would have a moral obligation to run. The Republicans called his bluff.
For weeks, Mr. Cuomo had weighed his obligations as Governor with the risk that his political message would not transcend New York's deteriorating financial condition and that the state of his state would become a predominant campaign issue; and political liability. To preach fiscal responsibility and economic change while presiding over the collapse of New York's credit would be an "ugly contradiction," he said, regardless of how much blame the Federal Government deserved for compounding the state's financial problems.
Mr. Tese and Mr. Palomino were lunching at Angelo's in Manhattan. With the deadline for entering the New Hampshire Presidential primary only hours away, Mr. Cuomo weighed the evidence for the last time. The scales wobbled, then tipped against his candidacy.
If a Democrat doesn't win next year, said his son Andrew, then in 1996 his father "might be right back where he is now." But, as the Governor himself said, 1996 is eons away.
Meanwhile, he remains an almost-ran, an immigrant ditch digger's son who defied the odds to get elected Governor and who risked disappointment this year by daring to dream. He left a winner, or at least as the untested Democratic front-runner, belittled by some but a bigger man in his own eyes, which, to Mario Cuomo, is the audience that counts most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); THANKSGIVING (64%); BUDGETS (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (53%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



804 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Cardinal Urges U.S. to Welcome Haitians

 BODY:
John Cardinal O'Connor made an emotional appeal during yesterday morning's Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral for the United States to provide a safe haven for thousands of Haitian refugees.
"We can at least not deport the 7,000 Haitians at Guantanamo Bay until there's stability again in Haiti," he said during the service, referring to refugees at the American naval base in Cuba who may be forcibly returned to Haiti. 
 "Our circumstances here are very difficult, and there's a very deep recession, but the suffering here can't be compared to the suffering in Haiti."
Since the coup that overthrew the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, a Roman Catholic priest, on Sept. 30, thousands of Haitians have been killed, according to human-rights officials, and many thousands more have fled.
After the Mass, Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of the Archdiocese of New York, held a news conference with Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and several local Haitian-born leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (90%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; GUANTANAMO (CUBA) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ASYLUM (POLITICAL) RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); RECESSION (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN (CARDINAL) CHARLES B RANGEL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



805 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
A Salomon Client Is Back

 BODY:
The Massachusetts Treasury decided late Friday to resume some trading with Salomon Brothers, joining a growing list of former clients who are returning after having suspended business in the wake of the Treasury market scandal.
Joseph Malone, the state Treasurer, said the decision to resume business with the Wall Street firm was based on the state's belief that Salomon executives had corrected the firm's internal problems and instituted effective safeguards to prevent illegal bidding. 
 But the state is not ready to resume full ties with Salomon. While the Massachusetts Treasury will trade stocks and other fixed-income securities through the firm, it will not yet resume government securities trading, the area where the legal infractions occurred.
Massachusetts suspended all business with Salomon on Aug. 21, after the firm disclosed that it had been involved in illegal bidding in Federal Treasury auctions. Salomon admitted that employees on its government trading desk had submitted numerous illegal bids, at times using customers' names to purchase securities without authorization.
A number of other clients have restored ties with the firm. On Friday, the California Public Employees Retirement System, the large pension fund known as Calpers, resumed trading with Salomon's government trading desk, after announcing its decision to return late Thursday. And earlier this month, the World Bank resumed business with the firm. Both clients had suspended their trading with Salomon after the Treasuries scandal began to unfold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (82%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS INC CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH L MALONE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



806 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Additional Rate Cuts Are Seen

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Many credit market analysts say chances are good that interest rates will fall further. They say the Federal Reserve, as it demonstrated on Friday when it slashed the discount rate a full point, is clearly eager to finish the task of stimulating the economy.
It has been so long since short-term interest rates were at their current low levels that there is little wonder that credit market participants feel locked in an unfamiliar, unsettling time warp. 
 The Fed's decision last week to cut the discount rate to 3 1/2 percent brings that symbolically important rate to its lowest level since 1964, the first full year of the Johnson Administration.
 
Funds Rate Falling, Too
 The Fed followed up that move by indicating that it had lowered its target on the overnight Federal funds rate by half a point, to 4 percent. Wall Street economists say the funds rate has not been that low since 1963, when John F. Kennedy was in the White House.
It is not necessary to retreat so far to find the last time the Fed cut the discount rate by a full point. In December 1981, Paul A. Volcker, the Fed chairman at the time, lowered the discount rate to 12 percent, from 13 percent.
But the magnitude of last week's cut was much larger, analysts said, because the discount rate, the rate the Government charges banks for loans, was much lower when the reduction was made.
 
 
Only One Cut Was Bigger
 After examining the record, economists said only one discount rate cut had been bigger proportionally than the 22.3 percent reduction achieved last week. The record cut was 25 percent recorded in 1934, with the country deep in the Depression. The Fed cut the discount rate to 1.5 percent, from 2 percent, and subsequently to 1 percent. It seems unlikely that the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, and his colleagues would care to be forced to equal or better that feat.
In announcing the rate cut last week, the Fed predicted that its move, in conjunction with previous reductions, "should provide the basis for a resumption of sustained economic expansion."
Analysts were not so certain and noted that by leaving the discount rate a full half-point below the funds rate, the Fed gave itself some latitude to move rates even lower if their forecast goes awry.
 
Helps 'at the Margin'
 "This move helps, but only at the margin," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan.
On the positive side, Mr. Fine and others noted, the cuts in the discount rate, the funds rate and the 1 percent drop in the prime lending rate at many banks, to 6 1/2 percent, should speed the extensive repairs that corporate and individual balance sheets still need.
"A lot of debt service will be saved over the next six months," said Alan Sinai, president of the Boston Company Economic Advisors.
"What the Fed did is a little late in coming, but I think six months from now it will result in an economy that is expanding, albeit slowly."
The downward momentum that resumed in the fourth quarter is likely to remain for some time, however, the analysts said, and the Fed may be forced to respond with further rate cuts.
 
Employment Is Seen as Key
 Norman Roberston, chief economist at the Mellon National Bank in Pittsburgh, said last week's rate cuts, no matter how bold, were not likely to provide much stimulus over the near term to either consumer spending or manufacturing.
"Once employment stabilizes, then people may start to take advantage of lower rates, particularly in the housing sector," he said. And Mr. Robertson suggested that by waiting so long to make such a decisive move, the Fed may have done more to undermine confidence than to shore it up.
"The most worrying thing now is that the Fed has signaled we are confronted by something of an economic crisis," he added.
Whether Congress interpreted the rate cuts as a panicky step on the Fed's part will do much to determine the ability of the central bank to continue to push interest rates lower, analysts said.
A sense of deepening crisis might stir Congress to enact a fiscal stimulus package far larger than the Fed wants. Should that occur, short-term rates would probably not fall much further, and long-term bond yields would almost certainly move higher.
Indeed, analysts said the Fed probably diverged from the quarter-point cuts in the funds rate, which have been the hallmark of Mr. Greenspan's gradual approach for two and a half years, to reduce the odds that Congress would adopt a package that balloons the Federal budget deficit.
"This may have the effect of making the fiscal package a touch smaller than what it might have been," said Neil M. Soss, chief economist at First Boston. "But it does not signal the end of the need for monetary relief."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N JOHN F KENNEDY (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



807 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Give a New Life To a Dying Soviet Industry

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
Until recently, the colossal Leninetz military conglomerate focused on building high-quality radar for Soviet fighter planes. But with the cold war over, Leninetz finds its world turned upside down.
So it is focusing on making refrigerators, razor blades and other consumer goods and is eagerly looking to Western companies for help. 
 After decades of being pampered by Soviet central planners, Leninetz and more than 1,000 other military enterprises find themselves in a struggle for survival. To stay afloat, companies that made tanks, radar and missiles have plunged into civilian production and are struggling to learn to make tractors, radios, smoke alarms and children's sleds.
 With the breakup of the centralized Soviet Government, these enterprises are desperately seeking expertise and money from their former cold war enemies, and several big American companies and a few prominent investors are lending a hand.
"Unfortunately, the Soviet system didn't allow us to engage in much consumer-goods production," said Anatoly Turchak, general director of Leninetz. "We fell behind the West in making consumer goods, so we need a lot of Western help in this area to make our people's lives more comfortable."
As the economy plunges deeper into crisis, the once-mighty Soviet military-industrial complex could be facing the greatest woe. By some estimates, more than a million of this sector's estimated seven million workers could soon be on the street.
"With life already difficult in our cities, we directors of military enterprises shouldn't contribute to the army of unemployed," said Mr. Turchak, whose enterprise has 50,000 employees. "Layoffs could contribute to a social explosion."
Indeed, with Russia, Ukraine and nine other republics of the former Soviet Union establishing the Commonwealth of Independent States and with the transition to a free market producing layoffs and inflation, the old Soviet military-industrial complex has become a breeding ground for a conservative backlash. This backlash has raised fears of a coup and of a renewed cold war because some conservatives assert that military enterprises should continue making sophisticated weapons instead of toys.
With central authority fragmenting and fears about the former Soviet Union's nuclear weapons growing, many Western experts say it is all the more important for Western companies to help prevent the military-industrial complex from careening into disaster and desperation.
"The need for Western investment and know-how was very acute before the recent political events, and the need remains very acute," said Dean LeBaron, chief executive of Batterymarch Financial Management, a Boston-based company that has set up an investment fund to help old Soviet companies convert to civilian production. "We're working to help convert Soviet military brainpower to other areas."
 
'Not Ready' Now
 Huge sums are needed to retrain hundreds of thousands of workers and buy new equipment. The machinery that made radar for fighter-bombers is vastly different from the mass-production equipment needed to turn out refrigerators and radios.
"We need several dozens of billions of dollars to complete our conversion, but we're not ready to absorb that amount right now," said Vladimir Sidorovich, an economist advising the State Military-Industrial Commission. "Still, we could use one billion dollars for starters."
Mr. Turchak, who is 43 and as dynamic as any American manager, has invited dozens of Western portfolio managers and industrial executives to Leninetz's headquarters in the hope they will see investment opportunities. Leninetz has signed a joint venture deal with the Gillette Company of Boston to manufacture 750 million razor blades a year, and it is discussing a multibillion-dollar plan to work with Westinghouse, A.T.& T., I.B.M. and other foreign companies to build air-traffic control systems for Soviet airports.
Leninetz is by no means the only Soviet military company to woo Western partners. The Sukhoi Design Bureau, famous for developing fighter-bombers, is working with the Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation of Savannah, Ga., to build a supersonic corporate jet. The Tupolev Aviation Corporation is working with the Pratt & Whitney Company, the East Hartford, Conn., jet engine manufacturer, to develop large passenger aircraft.
"Ideologically there is nothing better in the world than to find ways for people from cold war countries to collaborate on peaceful projects," said Jack Tymann, general manager of Westinghouse's electronics systems division.
The need for outside help is evident in a grimy, poorly lighted Leninetz plant, where 80 workers stand awkwardly beside a crude assembly line that makes refrigerators. Some use screwdrivers, tools that gave way to automation decades ago in most Western appliance factories.
The refrigerators are not large or stylish enough for Western markets, Mr. Turchak acknowledged. But with Western help, he added, Leninetz can adopt modern design and production techniques to make sleek refrigerators that will be best sellers.
His goal is to produce 350,000 refrigerators a year to be sold at home and abroad. In addition, using workers who used to make military electronics, he aims to manufacture far more than a million vacuum cleaners a year. Lenenitz has also become a leading toy producer.
The changes are part of a conversion plan the old central Government began in 1989 to prepare 420 military factories for civilian production. That plan was woefully inadquate for many reasons, among them that Soviet-American arms agreements and the nation's budget crisis had reduced military spending far faster than anticipated.
Because the official policy has been to direct conversion from on high, "very little gets achieved," said Julian Cooper, director of Russian and Eastern European studies at the University of Birmingham in England. "The successful conversions that have occurred have been mainly through local initiative: enterprises getting together among themselves or making foreign contacts."
Mr. Turchak sees another problem: making the ruble a convertible currency will open the domestic market to Western goods. He worries that consumers will turn to long-coveted Western-made products and shun inferior domestic goods. The 11 republics that formed the commonwealth had indicated earlier that they favored maintaining the Soviet ruble as their common currency.
"Our products could turn out to be uncompetitive in our home market," Mr. Turchak said. "That's one reason we need Western partners: they will help us make products that achieve world quality levels."
 
Had Been Top Industry
 Military industry executives like Mr. Turchak said they had one big advantage that might enable them to attract Western investment: the military sector traditionally had the nation's best managers, best technologies and most disciplined work force. While Soviet televisions frequently catch fire and Soviet furniture is uniformly ugly, even Westerners agreed that Soviet fighter-bombers and booster rockets were a technological tour de force.
"If you're going to invest in the Soviet Union, either in individual projects or as part of a fund, the military sector is probably the best place," said Kenneth E. MacWilliams, president of Prudential Equity Management Associates, a division of Prudential Insurance that is reviewing possible investments in the former Soviet Union.
The Military-Industrial Commission, which represents more than 1,000 enterprises, is working closely with Batterymarch Financial Management to attract Western investors. By the end of this year, Batterymarch hopes to persuade investors to put up $250 million in a fund that will invest in civilian projects by military companies.
To exploit the huge demand for televisions, one Batterymarch project would expand picture-tube production by the Moscow Electric Vacuum Device Works. Another Batterymarch investment would help the Kiev Aircraft Production Association make 115-seat Tupolev passenger aircraft.
And Batterymarch has agreed to invest more than $10 million for Leninetz to build a new plant that wouldproduce 350,000 refrigerators. Leninetz estimates that demand is 10 million refrigerators a year, while only 6 million are produced.
"A project like this will not only help my country, but can make money for Western investors," Mr. Turchak said.
Despite such projects, many Western companies are not jumping in. "There is so much that has to happen in that country before you have a viable investment," said Brad Bell, treasurer of the Whirlpool Corporation. "There isn't a firm handle on what their costs are or on what products are profitable."
But Mr. LeBaron of Batterymarch says it is not too early for Westerners to invest. "The former Soviet Union, he said, "needs to find a way, for the benefit of all of us, including the American people, to earn its way in the global economy. If it fails to do that, the alternative is unattractive to contemplate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The need for outside help is evident in a grimy, poorly lighted Leninetz plant in St. Petersburg, Russia, where workers stand awkwardly beside a crude assembly line that makes refrigerators. Some use screwdrivers, tools that gave way to automation decades ago in most Western appliance factories. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BATTERYMARCH FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ARMIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); POLITICS (61%); SMOKE DETECTORS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



808 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: A Retailing Hub Grows In Virginia's Countryside

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALE CITY, Va.

 BODY:
Williamsburg and Mount Vernon may have their historic charms, but Virginia's biggest attraction is Potomac Mills, a sprawling cut-rate shopping mall dating to 1985.
The nation's first shopping mall to combine dozens of manufacturers' outlets and discount retailers under one roof, Potomac Mills peddles the oddly sized, the slightly irregular, the out-of-season, the overstocked and the deeply discounted to 12 million shoppers a year. 
 Although the nation has long had discount and outlet hubs -- Freeport, Me.; Reading, Pa., and North Conway, N.H., for example -- most stores in those places are either in shopping strips or free-standing. Potomac Mills and several succeeding projects have combined the discounts with the appeal of suburban-style shopping malls. The stores are generally Spartan, with few salesclerks in sight. The reward for those who venture 20 miles south of Washington: savings of 30 percent to 70 percent off regular retail prices.
Nationally, a nagging economic slump and a shopping season shortened by a late Thanksgiving virtually assured that most retailers would have a disappointing Christmas season. But at Potomac Mills, merchants anticipate record business. The reason, said Lynne C. Mitchell, marketing director at Potomac Mills, is simple: "People are looking to spend less."
While 1991 retail sales were growing by an anemic three-tenths of 1 percent nationally through November, Potomac Mills saw an 8 percent increase over the comparable 1990 period, with a strong Veterans Day weekend. About 2,500 tour buses visit the shopping center each year.
Herbert S. Miller, the 47-year-old chairman and chief executive of the Washington-based Western Development Corporation, which is the developer and owner of Potomac Mills, promotes discount shopping with fervor.
"In 1990, traditional retail sales grew 3 percent, while value and discount retail grew by 11 percent," he said, noting that discount retailing, including chains like Wal-Mart, now accounting for more sales than regular retailing.
Since Potomac Mills arrived in rural Prince William County, Va., it has been drawing an increasing number of shoppers, spawning satellite shopping centers for a mile around.
The complex now has 1.2 million square feet -- equal to about 21 football fields -- enclosing stores like IKEA and Waccamaw Pottery and outlets of big retailers like Nordstrom's; Sears, Roebuck and Macy's. Those who want a second day of shopping can spend the night at the Potomac Mills Days Inn.
But Western Development, like a shopper on a spree, is hungry for more. Potomac Mills will expand next year by adding 440,000 square feet to include outlets for J. C. Penney, Spiegel, Marshalls and Phar-Mor and yielding a mall the size of 28 football fields. Separate buidings nearby include Pier One Imports, soon to be joined by Wal-Mart and Sam's Wholesale Club.
Potomac Mills' success encouraged Western Development to building Franklin Mills in Philadelphia at 1.7 million square feet; Gurnee Mills, between Chicago and Milwaukee, with 1.9 million square feet, and Sawgrass Mills in Broward County, Fla., with more than 2 million square feet.
In the works are Auburn Mills in Michigan, to draw shoppers from Detroit, Ann Arbor and Flint, and Ontario Mills in California, to serve Los Angeles, San Bernardino, and Anaheim. "Our projects are so large and powerful because we want to be market dominant," Mr. Miller said. "Our objective over the next 15 years is to be in the top 17 markets in America, reaching 83 percent of the population."
On a recent Saturday, crowds flowed through Potomac Mills.
Sylvia Burnette's tour bus had come up from North Carolina. As she slumped onto a wooden bench in one hall, she said she planned to return again, better prepared. "Next time I'm bringing more money," she said, and added, "You got to have on your walking shoes."
Two stores, Everything for a Dollar and Dollar Bills, stock only merchandise that sells for $1. On the other end of spending spectrum is First Choice, which carries designer fashions -- like Escada sweaters that after the markdown sell for at least $250.
For those accustomed to, say, Nordstrom's usual attention to customer service, the bare, unattended expanse of the Nordstrom Rack store can be jarring. Yet, a woman from the nearby town of Woodbridge, who said she "lives at Potomac Mills," called her session at the racks worth the effort.
"It's like looking for a needle in the haystack," she said. "But I've found a few needles, so I'm not complaining."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Potomac Mills in Dale City, Va., the nation's first shopping mall to combine dozens of manufacturers' outlets and discount retailers under one roof, has become Virginia's leading attraction. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (62%); PIR (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (81%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (62%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (62%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (62%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (50%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (50%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (91%); READING, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POTOMAC MILLS (SHOPPING CENTER) WESTERN DEVELOPMENT CORP (81%); NORDSTROM INC (62%); SAM'S CLUB (60%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (50%); PHAR-MOR INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: POTOMAC MILLS (SHOPPING CENTER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (91%); READING, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; DISCOUNT SELLING; SALES RETAILERS (95%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); THANKSGIVING (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



809 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Can General Motors halt its decline just by getting smaller? Many expert are not so sure. Time and again in the last decade, G.M. has closed plants and laid off workers, each time proclaiming that a "leaner and meaner" company was ready to take on the world. G.M., the experts say, needs more than a trimmer waist; it needs a change of mentality. [Page A1.] 
American Express has cut its ties with Laura Ashley after the retailer tried to discourage customers from using the American Express card because of the fees. [D2.]
 
The Economy
 Chances are good that interest rates will fall further, many credit market analysts say. They say the Federal Reserve, as it demonstrated on Friday when it slashed the discount rate a full point, is clearly eager to finish the task of stimulating the economy. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D1.]
After being nurtured by state and local governments that set aside a portion of their contracts for minority businesses, many such companies have closed or are foundering after court rulings that the racial preferences are unconstitutional. [A1.]
The head of the S.E.C. has sharply shifted course in several policy areas recently in what senior officials at the agency see as an effort to promote the Bush Administration agenda during an election year. [D1.]
Virginia's biggest attraction is Potomac Mills, a sprawling shopping mall that was the first to combine dozens of manufacturers' outlets and discount retailers under one roof. [D4.]
 
The Media Business
Books are selling well this holiday season, and people in the publishing industry are breathing a wary sigh of relief. Publishers and booksellers had been unsure how the holiday season would go, given the state of the economy. But now, people in publishing say there will be plenty of books waiting under trees this Christmas. Esther B. Fein: Publishing. [D1.]
Metromedia and New Line Cinema offered a bankruptcy reorganization plan for Orion Pictures that would merge some operations of Orion and New Line. [D9.]
It looks and reads like a independent magazine, but it's really a marketing tool. The company-sponsored publication can be found at more and more corporations as they move to reinforce their relationships with their customers. [D10.]
Tabloid television is booming. Programs like "A Current Affair," "Hard Copy" and "Inside Edition" are getting better ratings. [D10.]
Veja, a giant newsweekly in Brazil, is the crown jewel of a media giant that is Latin America's largest publisher. [D10.]
Pizza Hut has scrapped its four-year-old ad campaign for a more aggressive approach. The soft-sell slogan "Makin' It Great" is being supplanted by a hard-charging appeal to "Hit the Hut." Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D11.]
 
International
Colombia and its foreign oil partners have discovered an oil field that might be the largest find in the Americas since the Prudhoe Bay discovery in Alaska in 1968. [D1.] The Venezuelan national oil company has surpassed Exxon as the world's third-largest oil enterprise. [D8.]
The colossal Leninetz military complex once focused on building high-quality radar for Soviet fighter planes. Now it is turning to refrigerators, razor blades and other consumer goods and is eagerly seeking Western help. [D1.]
The Director General of GATT is gambling for high stakes with his take-it-or-leave-it plan for bringing five years of global trade negotiations to a conclusion. News Analysis. [D2.]
 
Today's Column
New York City is moving to adopt a plan for selling bonds in amounts as small as $250, using a novel sales program that would bypass mutual funds and brokers and make the city's bonds more available to middle-income investors. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (53%); PIZZA HUT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); BOOKSTORES (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); BOOK PUBLISHING (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



810 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Publishing;
Booksellers Surprised by Strong Sales

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN

 BODY:
Books are selling well this holiday season, and people in the publishing industry are breathing a wary sigh of relief.
Publishers, booksellers and others who follow the industry had been unsure how the holiday season would go, given the state of the economy. But now, people in book publishing say that although this has hardly been a boom year, there will be plenty of books under trees this Christmas. 
 "There's a general feeling that the season is pretty good -- nothing to shout about, nothing to complain about," said Joyce Meskis, owner of the Tattered Cover bookstore in Denver and president of the American Booksellers Association. "Given the retail environment around us, we're all pretty grateful."
While clothing, jewelry and gift shops have been trying to entice shoppers with aggressive pre-Christmas sales and discounts -- and are still posting poor results -- bookstores have been experiencing real growth.
 
Leading Retail Sector
 Bookstores have shown the greatest gains of all retail sectors this year, said William Lofquist, an analyst with the Commerce Department who follows the publishing industry. For the first three quarters of 1991, the dollar value of retail sales at bookstores was up 8 percent over the year-earlier period, while retail sales at all types of stores were up only 1 percent in the period. The next-most-successful sector was music stores, where sales grew 5.5 percent.
Even taking into account price increases of approximately 4 to 4.5 percent, Mr. Lofquist said, bookstores still experienced a real growth rate of about 4 percent before the heavy holiday buying season began.
"It's just staggering that bookstores are doing this well in this economic climate," he said. "Books seem to still be cushioned. It takes dire economic straits for them to fall out of favor."
At one time, books were considered recession-proof because of their variety and relatively modest prices. This year, though, many in the industry had begun to lose faith.
Indeed, the news is not all good. Publishing executives said that for the first time in memory, a stagnant economy was taking its toll on the book business. Sales are coming later than usual and the growth rate is not as great as people had hoped. But the effects of the recession have been minimal so far.
Certain books, nearly all of them nonfiction, have defied expectations and sold better than anticipated. Among the most often mentioned are Susan Faludi's "Backlash" (Crown Publishers), James B. Stewart's "Den of Thieves" (Simon & Schuster), and Art Spiegelman's "Maus II" (Pantheon).
But the books that are doing well vary from store to store: In some, high-priced art and photography collections are flying off the shelves, while in others, they remain untouched.
Erma Bombeck's "When You Look Like Your Passport Photo, It's Time to Go Home" (HarperCollins), for example, is a winner at Barnes & Noble and B. Dalton stores, but a dud at several wholesalers.
Almost without exception, works of popular fiction by long-bankable authors, like Sidney Sheldon and Danielle Steel, are selling at levels below expectations.
Although Ms. Steel's "No Greater Love" (Delacorte) and Mr. Sheldon's "Doomsday Conspiracy" (William Morrow) are on several best-seller lists, neither has climbed to the No. 1 spot on The New York Times list, as most of their previous works have.
Wholesalers and booksellers say the disappointing sales of the two books provide the most glaring examples of a generally weak popular fiction market this holiday season.
"A number of the expected big titles like Steel and Sheldon have been disappointing," said Judy Hayman, hardcover buyer for Bookazine, a wholesaler. "The popular-fiction, commercial-fiction category is pretty slow. That customer is either dropping out of the market or buying light."
Picking up the slack in that genre, however, is "Scarlett" (Warner Books), the sequel to "Gone With The Wind," which continues to shatter sales records despite generally horrible reviews.
" 'Scarlett' is simply a phenomenon; there is no other way to describe it," said Robert Wietrak, director of merchandising at Barnes & Noble Inc., which owns both the Barnes & Noble and B. Dalton book chains. "It is doing twice as well as what our No. 1 book did last year, which was Charles Kurault's 'A Life on the Road.' I've never seen any other book like it."
Fearing that this would be a difficult holiday season, many publishers and booksellers revised their marketing strategies.
Book signings by famous authors, many of whom shunned such public appearances in meatier days, are at an all-time high and are being held later in the season than unsual. And more publishers are providing bookstores with "shelf talkers," cards that hang off shelves to highlight particular books.
The Borders bookstore chain has increased the number and visibility of its remainders tables of books from previous seasons, and it is doing swift business in that area, said Joe Gable, general manager of the Borders store in Ann Arbor, Mich. "We can barely keep the remainder tables stocked," he said.
Bantam Doubleday Dell started a promotion to "tickle the backlist" of non-current books, as Stuart Applebaum, a vice president in the publicity department put it, "to get a little excitement going in the marketplace."
For example, the company has tempted readers with a one-time offer of Robert Ludlum titles in paperback off the backlist for $3.99, rather than for the current price of $5.99.
"Better to be creative to deal with a different market," Mr. Applebaum said, "than to moan."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SALES; CHRISTMAS BOOKSTORES (95%); PUBLISHING (93%); RETAIL SALES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (79%); LITERATURE (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B DANIELLE FERNANDE STEEL (62%); SIDNEY SHELDON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



811 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Policy Shift Is Seen at the S.E.C.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22

 BODY:
The head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Richard C. Breeden, has sharply shifted course in several policy areas recently in what senior officials at the agency see as an effort to promote the Bush Administration agenda during an election year.
The moves, some of them opposed by other commissioners, include proposed regulatory breaks for small companies, a delay in new rules governing corporate shareholder battles and new efforts to control what Mr. Breeden sees as excessive litigation by shareholders. In each instance, Mr. Breeden has moved closer to the White House position than where the agency stood earlier this year. 
 The agency has also postponed several highly sensitive decisions until after Election Day next year.
"Since Labor Day there has been a clear shift on a number of public and a number of nonpublic matters," said Edward H. Fleischman, the longest- serving among the current commissioners and the only other Republican. "We have turned about 120 degrees in the last eight weeks alone."
Richard Y. Roberts, the lone Democratic commissioner among the four members said: "You sense that something is in the offing. In some areas we've shifted from a gear to neutral, and in some instances we've shifted from neutral to reverse."
The fourth commissioner, Mary L. Schapiro, is a registered independent.
Mr. Breeden said on Friday in an interview that his positions did not reflect any policy shifts but rather the declining economy and his long-held views. "In an election year, the level of partisan combat goes up, so any government program can be perceived as part of that controversy," he said. "We run an independent operation and where we're consistent with the Administration, we're consistent with the Administration."
But officials inside and outside the agency see two political motives: the coming Presidential election and Mr. Breeden's own aspirations to a Cabinet post. Mr. Breeden, a 42-year-old former White House aide and assistant to then-Vice President Bush, continues to enjoy good access to senior Administration officials. And he has made little secret of his desire to move to a higher position.
The shifts come at a time that the White House has been seeking to exert more control over what traditionally has been an agency with a reputation for independence -- with some notable exceptions.
"I can't remember a time in the 1960's or the 1970's that the Commission was as politicized as it is now," said James D. Cox, a professor of securities and corporate law at Duke University. "It opens itself up to the constituency that's most organized. In this case, it's industry that's best organized. The other constituency, the small investor, is not very well organized. And that's who suffers."
In a speech earlier this month, President Bush's counsel, C. Boyden Gray, questioned whether the existence of independent agencies was Constitutional and said the White House had been making an effort to get the S.E.C. "integrated into the policy-making apparatus."
"The S.E.C. has a lot to offer and they should be a part of the team, so to speak, when it comes to issues affecting the financial health of the U.S. economy," Mr. Gray said at the American Enterprise Institute.
 
A Delay in Proxy Rules
 One clear example of the recent shifts is the agency's treatment of proposed changes in the rules governing corporate shareholder battles. The issue has been under study for three years, and earlier this year Mr. Breeden defended the proposed changes in the proxy contest rules as urgently necessary and "quite modest."
Mr. Fleischman and Mr. Roberts said they had expected Mr. Breeden to have the rules pushed through the commission by Thanksgiving.
The proposals, disclosed in June, would make proxy statements available to the public much earlier and would sharply reduce the high regulatory cost imposed upon dissident groups. They would also make it easier for challengers of a company's management to obtain lists of shareholders.
But Mr. Breeden put off the possibility of new rules having any real effect until after Election Day. The postponement came after a complaint by the Business Roundtable, an organization representing the nation's largest corporations, to senior Administration officials. The officials included Mr. Gray and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who was said to be siding with the group.
Mr. Breeden acknowledged in the interview that he had discussed the rules with Administration officials. But he said his primary reason for delaying final action on the regulations was the unusually heavy volume of comments received by the commission about them.
Mr. Gray, who was Mr. Breeden's boss when they worked for Vice President Bush, served as a lawyer and lobbyist for the Business Roundtable before joining Mr. Bush's staff.
 
Carrying the Bush Banner
 In some policy areas, Mr. Breeden has begun to carry the Administration's flag quite visibly.
Picking up on the views of Vice President Dan Quayle that lawyers have burdened society with frivolous litigation, Mr. Breeden recently began to attack the plaintiffs' securities bar, accusing its members of generating unnecessary litigation and taking excessive fees. He called for securities law changes that would make it harder for shareholders to bring suits.
The shareholders' lawyers had historically been encouraged by many former S.E.C. chairmen and enforcement officials, who viewed them as playing a significant role as "private attorneys general" supplementing the agency's efforts by helping to enforce securities laws.
Meanwhile, Mr. Breeden, mindful of the problems that the sputtering economy and the tightening of credit have presented the White House, has lately proposed that the S.E.C. place high priority next year on finding ways to make it less expensive for small business owners to raise money in the capital markets.
Many other S.E.C. officials, however, worry that such steps may hinder their new attempts to combat fraud in "penny stocks," the kinds of financial instruments often used by small companies seeking to go public.
In the past, the S.E.C. has often rebuffed overtures from the White House. But Mr. Breeden has proved a receptive chairman. Unlike his recent predecessors, he views his appointment not as the pinnacle of his career but as a steppingstone. His term expires in 1993, a few months after the swearing-in of the President.
Mr. Breeden's receptivity to White House proposals also reflects a kind of political fence-mending in the wake of the Congressional defeat of the Administration's banking legislation. It had been at Mr. Breeden's direction that agency staff assisted one of the Treasury Department's political enemies, Representative John D. Dingell, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, in drafting legislation that would have maintained strong barriers between commercial banks and affiliated investment banks.
Mr. Breeden was prompted to assist Mr. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, because of Mr. Breeden's own views on the legislation and in deference to the committee that control's the S.E.C.'s budget and legislative agenda. But for his efforts, Mr. Breeden has been bad-mouthed by some Administration officials who have laid some blame for the legislation's failure on him.
Said one high-level official, who insisted on not being identified, "There are people in the Administration who are blaming him for getting things wrong."
Assessing the recent shifts at the S.E.C., Joel Seligman, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School who has written a book on the history of the commission and is in the middle of co-writing a 12-volume treatise on securities regulation, commented, "To try and politicize the S.E.C. and make it part of the Administration could not seem more inconsistent with the function of the agency."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard C. Breeden, head of the Securities and Exchange Commission. (The New York Times) (pg. D1); "Since Labor Day there has been a clear shift on a number of public and a number of nonpublic matters," said Edward H. Fleischman, Republican and senior member of the Securities and Exchange Commission. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); US LABOR DAY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BREEDEN, RICHARD C (CHMN); LABATON, STEPHEN GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



812 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

HEADLINE: World Economies

GRAPHIC: Table: "World Economies" shows most recent and previous period figures for industrial production, real G.N.P./G.D.P., current account assets, unemployment rate, consumer inflation, yield on 10-year Government bond, and currency exchange rate for the U.S., Japan, Germany, Britain, Canada and Mexico. (Source: Salomon Brothers; Mexican Government; S. G. Warburg & Company; J.P. Morgan Global Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption; Statistics

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; CANADA; MEXICO CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



813 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Media Giant Dominates Life in Brazil

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
After Time, Newsweek, U.S. News & World Report and Der Spiegel, what ranks as the world's fifth-largest selling newsweekly?
If the question were phrased in Portuguese, nearly a million Brazilians would probably respond: Veja. 
 "We're the biggest in town," said Roberto Civita, publisher of the powerful magazine that Brazilian politicians pick up with trepidation every Sunday afternoon. "When we started, in 1968, it was a big failure. My father kept asking me, 'When are we going to sell this thing?' "
 
Politically Independent
 But Veja's formula of full-color layouts and politically independent articles paid off handsomely. Long Brazil's largest-selling magazine, Veja (pronounced VAY-jha) saw its sales exceed 940,000 copies in October, up about 10 percent from a year earlier, Mr. Civita said.
"It's as if Time sold more than TV Guide or Reader's Digest," said Mr. Civita, the majority shareholder of Grupo Abril, a media company that is Latin America's largest publisher. He attributed the growth in part to aggressive marketing.
Grupo Abril stands out in a nation where governmental incompetence often obscures entrepreneurial excellence. Despite a deep recession and high inflation, Abril's payroll expanded to 11,000 this year and revenues are expected to increase by 10 percent, to $880 million.
Befitting Brazil's continental size, Abril executives like to use grand images to describe their expanding, international empire.
Every week, they say, Abril's distribution trucks make the equivalent of three trips around the world. Here in Sao Paulo, Abril's printing complex consumes enough electricity to power a small city.
Indeed, Abril now dominates markets in Portugal for women's magazines and for children's comic books.
The company's book divisions publish Time-Life books in Portuguese and about 40 percent of Brazil's telephone directories.
In addition, Abril has started selling Disney comic books in Spanish, first to Spain in 1989, and now to 18 Latin American nations.
"Spanish -- that was the big barrier," said the 55-year-old Mr. Civita, whose Italian-born father, Victor, started Abril here in 1950 with Donald Duck comic books in Portuguese.
 
Looking to Television
 Expanding beyond the printed word, Abril has moved aggressively to capitalize on Brazil's position as the nation with the fourth-largest number of households with television sets -- 28 million -- trailing only China, the United States and Japan.
"We already have half of the magazine market in Brazil," said Mr. Civita, whose 120 magazines dominate the newsweekly, women's, men's, business, fashion, sports, automobile and home-decoration fields in Brazil.
"Look at Brazil this way," he said, sketching a pyramid on a sheet of paper. "Think of 30 million households. Five million households read. Twenty-five million households don't read anything. Nothing."
Last year, TV Abril started broadcasts here of the MTV Network in 1990. And this year, Abril entered the pay television market, offering viewers here a choice of a sports channel, two movie channels, the Cable News Network, a classic movie channel and a culture channel.
"Ted Turner told me, 'If you don't buy TNT, I am not going to sell you CNN,' " Mr. Civita recalled.
Abril's pay television service, TVA, is going head to head with Globo, a highly successful network. Globo offers similar fare on Globosat -- a selection of sports, news, movie and entertainment channels.
 
'Enormous Impact'
 As important as these other media operations are, it is Veja that provides the most prestige and influence for Mr. Civita and his company.
"A cover story in Veja has enormous impact," said Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a Sao Paulo senator and center-left congressional leader. "Simply put, everyone reads it."
A measure of Veja's political heft came in October after Mr. Civita was named Brazil's "Person of the Year" by the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce of New York.
Heading a long list of congratulatory notes in Veja's letters page the following day were two from political figures who often receive skeptical coverage in the magazine: Fernando Collor de Mello, Brazil's President, and Marcilio Marques Moreira, Brazil's Economy Minister.
 
Publisher's Responsibility
 Mr. Civita said publishing a magazine read by the entire political, business and cultural elite of a leading developing nation entailed "a clear responsibility to open the heads of as many people as possible."
"Brazil has been going the wrong way on a one-way street for so long," he said. "For 30 years, we have been saying that we have to have family planning;, we have been saying that nationalism and xenophobia were keeping Brazil behind."
Today, with Brazil in a deep recession, Brazilians are turning in greater numbers to Veja.
"Our advertising has dropped in half in the last two years," Mr. Civita said. "Despite of the crisis, the magazine is growing. The more chaos we have, the more the readers have a desperate need to know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Civita, whose Grupo Abril publishes the powerful Veja and other Brazilian magazines, is expanding into television. (Inacio Teixeira for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: GRUPO ABRIL (BRAZILIAN CO) U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (91%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUPO ABRIL (BRAZILIAN CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (73%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLICATIONS; MAGAZINES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PUBLISHING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); POLITICS (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); MEN (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); WOMEN (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (52%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



814 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Cap, to Cap Costs

 BODY:
When President Bush unveils his health care reform plan next month, listen carefully for two simple words: tax cap. If you hear them, Mr. Bush will have taken a politically bold step as part of serious reform. If you don't, you can be sure his plan is merely fanciful.
A tax cap is a limit on the insurance premium that employers can provide tax-free to employees. Premiums in excess of the cap would be counted as taxable income to workers. 
 Why is the cap essential? Because there are only two ways to control medical costs. Either the Government imposes price controls on doctors and hospitals, as in Canada -- an improbable choice for a Republican President. Or it impels consumers to make cost-conscious choices. That's where tax caps enter the story.
Typically, employers offer workers a choice between high-cost fee-for-service plans and lower-cost managed-care plans, like health maintenance organizations. Under fee-for-service, patients choose their doctors, doctors choose treatments and the insurance company foots the bill.
Because doctors are paid for every service, they provide lots of services, some wasteful. Workers don't protest because they see little of the cost. Nor do many workers switch to managed care or other lower-cost plans. One reason is that premiums, no matter how high, are entirely tax-deductible. For many families that means that 30 percent or 40 percent of the extra cost of lavish or wasteful care is offset by lower taxes.
Unlimited deductibles, in short, produce a system where few care about costs -- a sure ticket to inflationary disaster. That's why Congress must cap the tax deduction. The cap would not be so strict that it denied basic coverage. And workers who wished to buy more costly coverage would be free to do so. But the extra cost would come from their pockets.
Health care, of course, involves more than tax caps. The President is deciding between options to expand public clinics, encourage managed care, open up Medicaid to the uninsured, limit malpractice settlements and promote insurance coverage by small-business employers. Some of these options are designed to insure some of the uninsured; but none will contain costs if Mr. Bush sidesteps the issue of tax caps.
The budget director, Richard Darman, knows this, and has been pushing for a tax cap. He also recognizes that a tax cap would be a wise way to raise some of the billions needed to pay for health care reform.
One advantage is that it would hit the rich more than the poor: tax deductions are worth twice as much to families in the 31 percent bracket as they are to families in the 15 percent bracket. Thus a tax cap might help Republican candidates blunt the attack of Democrats who accuse Mr. Bush of serving the rich -- offsetting, politically, the anger of upper-income voters who would lose a tax break.
A tax cap isn't enough to rescue the medical care system from its present mess. But it's the only way, other than price controls, to drive doctors and patients to low-cost solutions of medical problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; TAX DEDUCTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (56%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



815 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
'Stop the World'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS; William Safire is on vacation.

 BODY:
In the early days of the 1992 Presidential campaign one slogan has made its mark.
"Put America First," Gov. Douglas Wilder called his program when he started campaigning for the Democratic nomination in August. Pat Buchanan proclaimed "America First!" when he announced his Republican candidacy. 
 Only in a country with so little historical memory would a politician use the phrase America First. For it was first used by the group that delayed this country's playing its full part in opposing Nazi savagery.
The America First Committee in 1940-41 was on the whole an idealistic movement. Some of its members were simply pro-German. Most, whether right or left politically, believed sincerely that America could and should be isolated from the troubles of the world.
However high-minded its motivation, America First's argument was disastrously wrong. Of that history leaves no doubt.
If America First had succeeded in blocking Franklin Roosevelt's efforts to aid Britain, Hitler would surely have overwhelmed Britain -- and then the Soviet Union. A Nazi colossus would have stretched from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The notion that America could have gone happily on, untouched by such a world, is laughable.
"Stop the World, I Want to Get Off" is no more sensible an idea today. The world is a far smaller place than 50 years ago. The United States is much more dependent on international trade and economic interests abroad. Nuclear weapons give this country inescapable international security interests.
As a campaign slogan, America First has undoubted appeal. Many Americans feel, with reason, that President Bush has forgotten their economic plight in his fascination with foreign problems. The end of the cold war makes it hard to justify an enormous standing army and vast commitments for new weapons systems.
Some of us have long believed that American globalism was overdue to be deflated. Our international pretensions have so far outpaced our economic base that we are in danger of following the old pattern of a great power's rise, overreach and decline.
But such concerns hardly mean that the United States can suddenly and totally withdraw from its international role. For a campaigner to suggest that it can is either cynical politics or ideology gone mad.
Think about some of the problems in the world today and ask whether it would be in the interest of the United States to walk away from them.
The collapse of the Soviet Union raises the possibility of hunger and chaos there this winter on an enormous scale. Would Americans really be ready to turn away from that suffering, to offer no help in reorganizing the republics' economies? Not the Americans I know.
One of the most significant U.S. contributions to the international scene in the last 20 years has been concern for human rights. Congress first raised the issue. President Carter made it a part of our foreign policy. Today the world cares about the state of human rights -- in Kenya, in Burma, in Yugoslavia, wherever. Pat Buchanan wants to forget all that. Will he persuade Americans to stop caring?
Then there is the Middle East, still a tinderbox, still the world's largest source of oil. The United States is the only power that can hope to lead Israel and its neighbors to peace. It would be not only irresponsible but against our own urgent interests to give up that effort.
It is not just Pat Buchanan and Douglas Wilder who suggest to campaign audiences that the United States can turn away from the burdens of the world. Senator Tom Harkin, in his calls for the country to look inward, sounds close to isolationist. Of all the competing Democrats, only Gov. Bill Clinton has given much attention to foreign policy.
The Democrats, whoever is nominated, will run to a great extent on domestic issues. Rightly so: A middle class impoverished by the voodoo economics of Ronald Reagan and George Bush is looking for new policies at home.
But promising to forget the rest of the world is another thing. The United States tried that in the 1920's and 1930's. We and the world paid a frightful price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ATAXZ (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA FIRST PROPERTIES MANAGEMENT LLC (91%); AMERICA FIRST EUREKA HOLDINGS INC (91%); AMERICA FIRST REIT ADVISORY CO (91%); AMERICA FIRST TAX EXEMPT INVESTORS LP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



816 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
The Hut Turns Up the Heat In the War of Pizza Chains

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN another skirmish in the pizza wars, Pizza Hut Inc. has scrapped its four-year-old advertising campaign for a more aggressive approach.
In television commercials by BBDO New York, which begin on Thursday, the nation's largest pizza chain will introduce twin themes replete with urgent calls to action. 
 For Pizza Hut's burgeoning delivery service, the singer Aretha Franklin will belt out a tune, "Deliver Me," based on her 1960's soul song "Rescue Me." And for its sit-down restaurants, the soft-sell slogan "Makin' It Great" is being supplanted by a hard-charging appeal to "Hit the Hut."
The delivery spots are "a great way to put the fact that we deliver into the consumer's vocabulary," Bob Perkins, Pizza Hut's senior vice president of marketing, said in a telephone interview from its headquarters in Wichita, Kan. And the entreaties to "Hit the Hut," he added, are intended to inject excitement and energy into efforts to "give consumers a reason to go to Pizza Hut tonight."
Separate pitches for Pizza Hut's two businesses make sense, said Charlie Miesmer, BBDO's vice chairman and executive creative director, because "they really appeal to different people at different times."
Customers "in their late teens and early 20's, who would not go into a fast-food place, sit down and order a pizza, love to pick up the phone and order," he added.
Since January, advertising for Pizza Hut, a Pepsico Inc. subsidiary, has emphasized delivery service in a challenge to Domino's Pizza Inc. Though second in overall sales behind Pizza Hut, Domino's is first in delivery sales, which account for about a third of the country's $10 billion to $15 billion annual appetite for pizza.
Industry analysts estimate that Pizza Hut has captured about 25 percent of the delivery market, to Domino's 45 percent. Pizza Hut spends an estimated $75 million on advertising annually, 50 percent more than Domino's ad budget.
Pizza Hut's strategy "strikes right at the heart of Domino's competitive position," said Nancy Kruse, a principal in Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based fast-food consulting company. Pizza Hut "hits a real hot button with consumers," she added, "whose attitude toward home delivery is, 'I want it when I want it.' "
To counter Pizza Hut, Domino's dumped its longtime agency, Group 243 in Ann Arbor, Mich., in favor of Grey Advertising Inc. in New York. In September, Grey introduced a campaign with the theme, "Nobody knows like Domino's how you like pizza at home," which plays down the emphasis on fast delivery in favor of product quality.
Pizza Hut's decision to change its advertising "has nothing to do with Domino's," said Mr. Perkins, who joined Pizza Hut in May from Chiat/ Day/Mojo Inc., a former Pizza Hut agency.
"If I would have been here earlier," he added, "we would have brought this out three months before Domino's."
Complicating the Pizza Hut-Domino's battle is the spoiler role played by Little Caesars Enterprises, which stresses lower-priced menu items in humorous commercials by Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York. One spot, recently lauded by Bob Garfield, Advertising Age's ad critic, spoofs the penchant of pizza commercials to venerate those long, gooey strings of mozzarella known as "cheese pulls."
Ms. Kruse, the industry consultant, said Little Caesars was "getting an extra push because consumers are so value-conscious due to the recession." To keep pace, ads for Pizza Hut and Domino's also feature lower-priced pizzas.
Absent from BBDO's new Pizza Hut ads are the direct attacks on Domino's that caused controversy earlier this year; one spot showed actors portraying Domino's deliverers secretly eating Pizza Hut pies.
While "it's not that we'll never tweak them again," Mr. Miesmer said, the belief was that "this time around, we should say something a little more directly positive" about Pizza Hut.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 1991, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Advertising column yesterday referred incorrectly to the 1960's soul song "Rescue Me," on which Pizza Hut has based the song for its new advertising campaign. Although the song heard in the commercials, "Deliver Me," is sung by Aretha Franklin, she did not sing "Rescue Me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (85%); PEP (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (66%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC; BBDO WORLDWIDE PIZZA HUT INC (96%); BBDO NEW YORK (92%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (85%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (84%); PEPSICO INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIZZA HUT INC; BBDO WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (70%); WICHITA, KS, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; PIZZA PIES; DELIVERY SERVICES; ENDORSEMENTS; RESTAURANTS FAST FOOD (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); BUDGETS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: ARETHA FRANKLIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



817 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 23, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: The Revolution: A Case for Optimism

BYLINE: By Stephen Sestanovich; Stephen Sestanovich is director of Soviet and East European studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Winter has arrived in Russia, preceded by a flurry of demands that the outside world do something, anything, to help post-Soviet democracy succeed. Yet the most lurid descriptions of what could lie ahead -- unguarded nuclear weapons, hungry children, demagogues in search of an opening -- may only make help seem futile. A convincing case for Western aid must include reasons for thinking it would work.
The argument for optimism begins with all the things that should already have gone wrong if the pessimists were right. Many experts "knew" that no Russian politician could accept Ukrainian independence (and some of them knew that Baltic independence was out of the question, too). More broadly, the collapse of the Soviet state is supposed to have let loose uncontrollable nationalisms allowing peoples that most Americans have never heard of to start killing each other with abandon. 
 Instead, the presidents of Russia, Ukraine and Byelorussia two weeks ago found a formula that cools off nationalist hotheads. In agreeing on a post-Soviet commonwealth, they recognized the reality of independence while preserving close relations. In this framework, accepted by 11 republics on Saturday, the issues that were supposed to be intractable -- whether territory or minority rights -- become far more manageable.
The Russian Government has also made progress in defusing ethnic problems inside its own borders. The Tatars, who pose the single most serious secessionist challenge to Russia itself, recently reached agreement with Moscow on increased economic autonomy, including rights to their huge oil reserves. The Tatar prime minister called it the most constructive negotiation with Russia since 1552.
Foreshadowing disaster of a different kind, rumors have spread in Moscow for months that disgruntlement in the military would soon bring another coup attempt. Anger that thousands of officers were living with their families in "tent cities" mingles with anxiety at the looming breakup of the armed forces into separate republican units.
But far from becoming an independent political force, the high command responded to the latest crisis by showing that it will, and wants to, take its cue from strong civilian leaders. This was the message of their support for Boris Yeltsin as he sought to ease Mikhail Gorbachev from office. The August coup taught the army the danger of putting itself on the wrong side of the barricades. The recent ouster of Gen. Vladimir Lobov as chief of the general staff, after his complaints about what republic independence would do to the army, showed that the military establishment will no longer protect those in its ranks who have not gotten the message.
What produced these results was not just unexpected reasonableness. It was the exercise of power. The changeover from President Gorbachev to President Yeltsin, dramatic in so many ways, represents the eclipse of a leader whose interests were served by keeping problems unresolved, in favor of one who knows that he has to offer real solutions if he is to survive. Mr. Yeltsin has shown, moreover, that reaching consensus is not simply a matter of the endless meetings that his predecessor favored. His warnings that Russia will, where necessary, act on its own have changed the terms of negotiation with smaller republics. In this way, he rebuts those who, in forecasting disaster, have assumed indefinite drift.
All this progress, the pessimists insist, will soon be swept away by economic catastrophe. The Soviet economy is cracking up, but it is not true that economics simply trumps politics. To the contrary, the agreement to create a post-Soviet commonwealth was a political achievement with real economic consequences. It removed one of the main obstacles to implementation of the radical economic program that Mr. Yeltsin unveiled at the end of October: the fear that uncoordinated moves to the market in different republics would produce havoc.
For the sake of this agreement, which included acceptance by all sides of a single currency, the Russian Government postponed its planned liberalization of prices until January. The delay will further increase shortages inside Russia, as more goods are held back in hopes of selling them at a higher price later. But Mr. Yeltsin is now more likely to push his program through than he was when Russia had to face doing so on its own. Economic hardship, moreover, is eased by political cooperation: as its part of the commonwealth pact, the Ukrainians quickly announced increased food deliveries to Russia to fill gaps created by the delay.
Meanwhile, inside the Russian Government -- and out of the headlines -- seemingly mundane preparations continue for the transition to capitalism. The legislature, for example, has just approved a wholly new tax system to replace the old one, which was designed for a planned rather than a market economy. Similarly, Mr. Yeltsin's deputies are at work on creating an effective social safety net, made urgent by the prospect of sharply higher prices and mass unemployment.
In the hurricane now sweeping through the old Soviet economy, such measures can hardly take hold soon enough to prevent great hardship. Foreseeing this, pessimists talk of Weimar-style outcomes: the failure of a democracy when it cannot secure the people's livelihood. The U.S. Ambassador, Robert Strauss, has referred to "any number of first-class demagogues" waiting to put themselves at the head of an angry anti-capitalist mob. He is far too charitable. The Russian politician making the loudest effort of this kind, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, is a laughingstock. His recent effort to woo the military featured the feeblest possible appeals: Does anyone really worry that junior officers will be moved to mutiny by promises of free life insurance or even a personal orderly?
Only one proven "first-class demagogue" is operating in Russian politics today, and his name is Boris Yeltsin. He is now in the position, admittedly awkward for demagogues, of having to produce results, but thanks to his own efforts he also has the power to do so. The Government of Russia -- the country's most important democratic force -- is better able to act, and to see its actions through, than at any time since Mr. Yeltsin took office a year and a half ago.
His virtuoso performance in driving Mr. Gorbachev from power has silenced those who two months ago complained that the hero of August was out of his depth. He has at the same time made it harder for aspiring demagogues to rally people against him. Among the frustrated rabble-rousers, Mr. Yeltsin's own Vice President, Aleksandr Rutskoi, has for weeks been seeking a pretext for a dramatic break with his boss. Even if he finds one, the threat he poses should not be exaggerated. He has no organization, no electoral track record and few allies of any standing.
As strong as he is, Mr. Yeltsin is taking an enormous gamble by beginning the new year with economic shock therapy. To succeed, he clearly needs outside assistance, and not simply the short-term humanitarian help that is on the agenda of the international conference that the U.S. has called for January. Mr. Yeltsin's objective goes far beyond feeding hungry mouths; he has to bring a vast moribund economy to life on a completely new basis. Market prices will by themselves increase the supply of goods for sale, but unless imports are available to help revive manufacturing and stabilize the consumer market, capitalism will seem no more than a system of extreme scarcity.
Many arguments for Western assistance to Russia start and end with the importance of nurturing democracy, as though billions could be committed out of fellow feeling. They don't have to be. Russia's democrats have the political strength to make use of our help and complete the revolution they have only just begun.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (90%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (90%); BELARUS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); COUPS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SESTANOVICH, STEPHEN BORIS YELTSIN (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1991



818 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
BUSH TO RECOGNIZE RUSSIA SOON
 President Yeltsin asked President Bush to recognize the Russian republic, and Administration officials said recognition would happen by Thursday, after the expected resignation of President Gorbachev. Page A1
 
GORBACHEV AND YELTSIN MEET
 President Gorbachev held a transition meeting with President Yeltsin and said afterward that as the Soviet Union was being closed out, nuclear arms were under strict control. A8
Russia will take over the Soviet seat on the U.N. Security Council. A8
Fighting continued in the capital of the republic of Georgia. A8
 
IMMIGRANTS' CHALLENGE TO ISRAEL
 With thousands arriving each month from the moribund Soviet Union, Israel has begun to wrestle with the social, religious and political implications of the immigrants' distance from Jewish traditions.A1
Israel's Supreme Court heard an appeal from John Demjanjuk. A6
 
BOMB ATTACK ON JEWISH EMIGRES
 A powerful bomb exploded in the path of a bus carrying Soviet Jewish emigrants to the Budapest airport for their flight to Israel. Six people were injured. A9
 
GERMANY RECOGNIZES CROATIA
 Germany flexed its new diplomatic muscle by recognizing the independence of two breakaway Yugoslav republics, Slovenia and Croatia. A3
 
SLAIN HOSTAGE'S BODY IDENTIFIED
 The body of a slain American hostage, Lieut. Col. William R. Higgins, was handed over to the United States Embassy in Beirut after identification by pathologists. A6
 
ALGERIAN OPPOSITION RALLIES
 Algeria's opposition Islamic Salvation Front made a strong show of force on the final day of campaigning in the country's first free multiparty parliamentary elections. A3
 
CHINA IS GOOD AT DAY CARE
 Shanghai Journal: In China, a married couple sometimes need only walk a few blocks to find good day care, run by the Government. A4
 
Polish crisis ends as assembly accepts cabinet. A6
 
National A10-15
 
CONFLICT OVER COUNCIL
 At the same time that environmental and consumer groups say the White House Council on Competitiveness is too anti-regulatory, some conservatives say the council has done too little to stem the flood of Federal regulations on business. A1
 
DIVISION AMONG BUSH TEAM
 In what is an early test for the management skills of the new White House chief of staff, President Bush's budget advisers and campaign aides are split over how Mr. Bush should handle the economic issue in the coming weeks. A1
 
A MAN ON THE MOVE
 Samuel Skinner, the President's new chief of staff, has long been known as a man who aggressively puts himself forward, choosing to make his own breaks rather than simply hoping to get noticed. A13
President Bush spiced his Christmas message with politics. A12
 
AMERICANS REIN IN SPENDING
 The big holiday trend this year is frugality, as some Americans, staggered by recession, forgo gift-giving altogether. A1
 
NEW ASSAULT ON DRINKING
 Successful lawsuits by two women may represent the leading edge of a trend toward holding companies legally liable when drinking and doing business are mixed. A10
 
BLACK BOYCOTT SPREADS
 Black-led boycotts have forced the closing of two Korean-owned shops in the Los Angeles area, and a third boycott is under way. A10
 
A SCANDALOUS CHAPTER CLOSES
 Years after the Stringfellow Acid Pits produced a Reagan Administration scandal about the dumping of hazardous chemicals, a judge approved dump-related settlements of more than $34 million. A11
 
A WET, NOT WHITE, CHRISTMAS
 Each spring for the past two years, the Trinity River flooded the Rochester Park neighborhood of Dallas; this year the flood came in late December and took much of Christmas with it. A11
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
MAXWELL RESIGNS AT NEWS
 Kevin Maxwell resigned yesterday as publisher and chairman of The Daily News, apparently bowing to pressure created by the evidence of his role in the collapse of his family's media empire. James Willse, the paper's editor, was named as publisher. A1.
 
JAIL SYSTEM HEAD LEAVING
 The head of New York City's jail system, Allyn R. Sielaff, resigned last night, hours after City Hall rebuked him for the handling of a $1.9 million contract awarded to a firm that had been represented by a close friend of Mayor David N. Dinkins. A1.
 
QUEENS ICON STOLEN
 Robbers yesterday burst into a church in Queens and stole an icon that had become the center of a pilgrimage there. A1.
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-8
 
Darwinian approach to medicine: how microbes and the body evolved. C1
Are United States students really so far behind in math and science? C1
Hope is a major factor in success, scientists are finding. C1
The Doctor's World: Dispute over two views of ear infection drug. C3
What does el Nino mean for the short-term weather outlook? C4
Personal Computers C2
 
Arts/Entertainment C9-18
 
Warner Brothers and "J. F. K." C9
On hearing "Messiah." C9
Tintin in America. C9
P. D. Q. Bach is returning, to say goodbye again. C9
Theater: "Dearly Departed." C11
Music: Johnny Winter. C11
Word and Image: "Tchaikovsky," a biography of the man, not his music. C17
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Sports B8-B13
Basketball: Knicks defeat Timberwolves. B9
Nets set back Hawks. B12
Columns: Anderson on the Jets. B9
Football: Gratifying victory for Coslet. B11
Giants will make changes. B11
Hockey: Rangers blank Devils. B9
Penguins beat Islanders. B13
 
Obituaries B6
 
James Fletcher, NASA chief who urged shuttle program.
Ernst Krenek, composer.
Hsin-Nung Yao, writer.
Minna Citron, artist.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials A18
Still stiffing the U.N.
A strong vote for One China.
Cost of not treating crack.
Topics: Diet police, foiled.
Letters A18
A. M. Rosenthal: Heroes in Moscow. A19
Simon Schama: Whose tree is it anyway? A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALGERIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); GEORGIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALGERIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); CROATIA (92%); GEORGIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (68%); APPEALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN DEMJANJUK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



819 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: Federal Regulation Growing Despite Quayle Panel's Role

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
While environmental and consumer groups have criticized the White House Council on Competitiveness as being anti-regulatory, some conservatives say the office, headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, has proved to have little muscle. In fact, there has been an unabated growth in Federal regulations during the Bush Administration.
Conservatives note that nearly 4,900 Federal regulations are currently being written -- as against 4,000 being considered at any one time in the Reagan years -- and that a vast majority of them will never be examined by the council, a panel with six high-ranking members and only six full-time aides. 
 The sharp growth is also evidenced by the number of entries in the Federal Register, a daily publication that records Government actions, the number of Federal officials employed in regulatory agencies and the cost of administering regulations.
 
Debate About Regulations
 There is substantial debate in the country about the need for many of the Federal regulations. Conservatives say the rules should be kept to a minimum unless their benefits exceed their costs and unless Congress has specifically called for their enactment. Consumer and other groups say the competitiveness council is intervening for political reasons into decisions that should be left in the hands of individual agencies.
President Bush has already signed many pieces of legislation that will lead to new regulations, among them the Clean Air Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act and laws on airplane noise, oil spills and food labeling. President Reagan signed relatively few regulatory bills in his eight years in office.
The costs of these regulations can be enormous. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the annual cost to the nation of environmental regulations was now $123 billion and was expected to reach $171 billion by the year 2000. The Clean Air Act alone will cost industries at least $25 billion a year. At the end of the Reagan Administration, the cost of environmental regulations was placed at $102 billion.
In part, the council's recent visibility is a response to this trend, which the panel itself addressed at meetings as long ago as last May.
The question asked by conservatives is whether the council is countering the trend or is simply being symbolically used to appeal to the more conservative elements of the Republican Party. The council also gives extra stature to the Vice President's job.
"If you say that the purpose of the council is really to slow the flow of regulations and keep them under control, I think you would have to say it has failed, because the flow of regulations has accelerated markedly," said James C. Miller, who played a crucialrole in the anti-regulatory efforts in the Reagan Administration.
 
'Really Surprises Me'
 Several independent analysts agreed.
"My own view is very much that the Bush Administration is a very heavily regulatory Administration, to an extent that really surprises me," said Robert Poole Jr., the president of the Reason Foundation, a policy research institution in California that favors letting businesses solve social problems. "The institutional capacity for really deregulating just does not seem to be there in the Bush Administration."
President Bush set up the Quayle council to do a job similar to the one he carried out as Vice President, when he headed a Task Force on Regulatory Relief. But at the same time, Mr. Bush, who promoted himself as an environmental President, pressed for enactment of the new Clean Air Act that has directed the Environmental Protection Agency to impose about 55 new regulations costing tens of billions of dollars.
The council's intervention in various rules relating to that act, as well as other areas of health and safety, has led to complaints that it has overstepped its bounds. Its actions are under investigation by seven Congressional committees, controlled by Democrats, that have registered several complaints: that the council is a conduit for business interests; that it lacks authority to make regulations; that its actions, taken behind closed doors, violate laws on open government, and that some of its members have conflicts of interest because of their financial holdings in companies covered by the regulations they have promoted.
 
Some See Broad Effect
 Nobody disputes that the council is changing the course of some major regulations, as when it persuaded the Food and Drug Administration a few weeks ago to issue new proposals reducing the time taken to approve new drugs. And some analysts say that by picking its fights for maximum effect, and winning enough of them to retain credibility, the council has a broad effect on agencies, which become more restrained in their proposals.
"The bottom line is that the Competitiveness Council does an excellent job," said Thorne Auchter, who headed the Occupational Safety and Health Administration in the first Reagan Administration and is now executive director for the Institute for Regulatory Policy, a research organization in Washington.
But other conservative analysts say the council has suffered many defeats along with its victories.
Sometimes the council's limitations, which include its lack of experts in the areas it examines, present problems. The most celebrated case this year involved the council's proposals to redefine wetlands in a way that would open more land to development. The scientific merits of its recommendation have been sharply questioned. And after an outcry by advocates of wetlands preservation, the council's action is now being reconsidered.
At issue in the dispute over the council's actions is the kind of regulation that all sides agree is the most important aspect of Federal policy making, even though the regulatory process normally does not get the public attention that is generated when Congress debates and enacts laws.
"What happens after the passage of legislation is often more important that what happens during enactment," said C. Boyden Gray, the White House counsel. "We are engaged now in a lot of knockdown fights over the Clean Air Act, where Congress left discretion to the agency."
 
The Next Verdict
 The next verdict on the council's effectiveness is expected in January, when the Environmental Protection Agency issues new rules for industrial permits limiting pollution.
Last spring, when it reviewed the proposed regulations, the council penciled in about 100 changes. In a battle of legal counsels, environmental agency lawyers are arguing that a council proposal to sharply limit the states' authority to challenge pollution permits would be illegal. The council is seeking a contrary ruling by the Justice Department.
At the same time, the council has demanded a new assessment of the rule's financial effect on industries. The rule, required to take effect in November, has been delayed while this bureaucratic contest is resolved.
In the eyes of its critics, notably Public Citizen, an organization founded by Ralph Nader that has mounted a vigorous campaign against the council, its machinations have been potent indeed. "The Quayle Council has a stranglehold on the regulatory agency rulemaking process," Public Citizen said in a report issued in September.
The report detailed how the council, working closely with the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, reviews major regulations and pressures Federal agencies to soften their economic effect on businesses. But conservatives counter that office on regulatory affairs is far less effective now than it was in the Reagan Administration. It has no politically appointed administrator and relatively little influence, they say.
An article in October in the monthly magazine National Review said that "O.I.R.A.'s influence almost disappeared for two years" under Richard G. Darman, the director of the Office of Management and Budget. By the time the council stepped in to reinvigorate the office, argued Warren T. Brookes, the columnist who wrote the article, "most of the regulatory horses were out of the barn and running amok."
To some extent, the weakening of the office of regulatory affairs served to concentrate power in the Quayle council, which as one influential Administration official put it, "stepped in to fill the vacuum."
But the weakening of regulatory affairs office, on balance, probably hurts the effort to control regulations more than the increase in the council's visibility helps.
Mr. Miller, a director of the budget office in the Reagan Administration, and before that the head of regulatory affairs office, said in an interview that the record shows that the Bush Administration has relaxed the anti-regulation standards of the Reagan years.
Mr. Miller said he laughed when he read a recent editorial in The New York Times that said the Quayle council was more powerful than Mr. Bush's Task Force on Regulatory Relief.
The council, whose official members are the Treasury Secretary, the Commerce Secretary, the Attorney General, the director of the White House budget office, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and the White House chief of staff, has just six full-time staff members, plus several influential participants with other White House staff assignments, like Mr. Gray.
The number of people writing regulations in 1992 is now estimated by the Center for the Study of American Business, based at Washington University in St. Louis, to be about 122,000, topping by a few hundred the previous high reached at the end of the Carter Administration.
Melinda Warren, an analyst at the center, said the Environmental Protection Agency's budget for regulatory matters had increased 31 percent in three years and its staff had grown 23 percent.
The council's staff estimates that it has reviewed 50 or 60 major regulations this year, a number that staff members frequently complain has stretched their capacities. And the staff says, the senior members of the council, including the Administration's top economic policy makers, have actually had to decide only two issues: one involving wetlands, and the other involving incineration of wastes at municipal landfills. The rest are worked out in lower-level negotiations.
 
'The Regulatory President'
 The National Journal, a respected weekly magazine published in Washington, went so far in November to label Mr. Bush "The Regulatory President."
"There is no question that the Bush Administration has taken a hatchet to some regulations," wrote Jonathan Rauch in the article. "However, if you look at the forest rather than the trees, the picture changes markedly."
The council "is simply not in a position to seriously evaluate the steady steam of regulations that E.P.A. develops," said Robert Hahn, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a research organization in Washington.
Council members do meet regularly with agency officials, and memorandums fly back and forth at regulatory deliberations. But because the council is so small, it usually reacts to regulatory proposals mainly after affected parties object to them -- by which time it can be too late.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dan Quayle, who heads the White House Council on Competitiveness. (The New York Times) (pg. A14)
 
Chart: "Regulating Competitiveness"
 
Some disputes dealt with by the White House Council on Competitiveness in the past few years.
 
WETLANDS
 
The Council has proposed changing the definition of wetlands, a step that scientists and environmentalists say would remove protection for millions of acres of valuable habitat. After objections to the change were raised, the comment period for the proposal has been extended.
 
CLEAN AIR PERMITS
 
The council proposed more than 100 changes to a proposed rule governing permits for air pollution emissions. One of the changes would sharply limit the rights of the states to challenge the permits. Lawyers from the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Justice Department are still debating the issue.
 
GRAND CANYON AIR QUALITY
 
The Council proposed that emissions from a power plant near the Grand Canyon be cut 70 percent, rather than 90 percent as proposed by the EPA. After agreeing at first, the EPA reversed course, and by changing the methods of controlling and measuring the pollution was able to achieve the 90 percent reduction.
 
WORKER EXPOSURE TO FORMALDEHYDE
 
The Occupational Health and Safety Administration had negotiated with labor and industry a limit on workplace exposure to formaldehyde, which can cause cancer. The Council said that the need for the regulation had not been proved, but OSHA insisted and in the end the limits were adopted.
 
AIRCRAFT NOISE
 
The Federal Aviation Administration tightly controlled access to its rulemaking team by airlines during the development of a regulation phasing out noisy airplanes. Lobbyists for aircraft leasing companies attempted to get the council to obtain changes in the rules that would reduce the costs of the regulations to leasing companies. But the final rule did not contain the changes sought by the companies.
 
DRUG TESTING
 
The council and the Food and Drug Administration have jointly proposed a new system of approving new drugs that would cut the time required and would put some testing in private hands. Many scientists within the agency say they are upset by the proposal. Final action has not been taken.
 
ENERGY REGULATION
 
The council has supported changes that would reduce the powers of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which regulates wholesale electricity sales and natural gas transmission by pipelines. The changes have not been adopted.
 
LAWYERS
 
Vice President Quayle, in a speech to the American Bar Association, proposed sweeping changes to the civil legal system that were developed in part by the council's staff. Lawyer's groups and consumers groups oppose the changes, whose prospects are uncertain.
 
RECYCLING
 
The E.P.A. proposed last year that new municipal waste incinerators remove 25 percent of incoming garbage for recycling before burning the rest. The Office of Management and Budget called this an Rarbitrary rule, and the council agreed. Florida, New York, and the Natural Resources Defense Council have said they would sue the EPA for failing to follow its initial proposal.
 
(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (94%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (94%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSERVATISM (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (65%); OIL SPILLS (50%); FOOD LABELING (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES) RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



820 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Campaign Advisers Split With White House on Economy

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
President Bush's new team of campaign aides and his White House budget advisers are split over how the President should handle the politically sensitive economic issue as he prepares to enter the 1992 campaign year, officials said.
Managing the friction between the two sets of advisers has become an early and important test for Samuel K. Skinner, the new White House chief of staff, as he moves to exert a control over policy like that wielded by his predecessor, John H. Sununu. 
 One group of advisers, primarily concerned about the campaign, wants Mr. Bush to come out as soon as possible with the major outlines of his economic growth package to use as a political weapon without getting involved first in negotiations with Congress.
The other group, arguing that it would be fruitless to put forth a policy that Congress will refuse to enact, wants the President to proceed more slowly and to negotiate in private with Democratic lawmakers before making public his own proposals.
This debate, which one official said has produced a "swirl of mini-conspiracies, sideshows and jockeying," has emerged as the White House tries to merge its policy and budget teams with the new campaign apparatus named by Mr. Bush this month.
The President met in the Oval Office with Mr. Skinner and other top domestic policy advisers today and planned another strategy session for Thursday before taking off on a post-Chistmas trip to Texas and a politically perilous visit to Asia.
 
Narrow and Wideer Issues
 At its simplest, the fight is over the narrow issue of how Mr. Bush should handle the few weeks before he delivers his State of the Union Message on Jan. 28. But the debate reflects a larger issue, a growing sense in the Administration and the Bush campaign that by late spring, one of two things must happen: either the economy must rebound or the President must be positioned to make a persuasive case that he tried to make that happen and the Democrats in Congress made it impossible.
In the search for an economic remedy, Mr. Bush is reviewing a range of options, including a small tax rebate, a tax reduction for the middle class, an investment tax credit and incentives for home buyers. The President's effort has been complicated by the uncertainty over how and when the economy will be affected by the lowering of interest rates announced last Friday by the Federal Reserve Board.
Administration officials and Republican strategists said the outcome of the debate over the economic package would do much to set the tone for Mr. Bush's early campaigning next year, and would also reflect the extent to which the White House and the campaign organization were beginning to merge.
Hoping to stop the President's political slide and put him on the offensive, the campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, and others are arguing that Mr. Bush should present his economic proposals soon after returning from Asia on Jan. 10, officials said.
According to this group, which includes Vice President Dan Quayle and Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Republican whip, the President would then begin an all-out campaign to promote his ideas before the State of the Union Message, and largely forgo protracted negotiations with Congressional Democrats.
These advisers believe Mr. Bush's current political problems can largely be traced to the bruising 1990 budget negotiations in which the President abandoned his "no new taxes" pledge to win an agreement limiting Government spending.
On the other side of the debate are Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director, who is maneuvering to reassert his authority under Mr. Skinner, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. Both Mr. Darman and Mr. Brady are urging Mr. Bush to stick to an earlier planned schedule and unveil his proposals in the State of the Union Message, officials said.
 
Quiet Talks Favored
 Arguing that Mr. Bush must try to reach some accommodation with Congress for any of his ideas to stand a chance of passage, Mr. Brady and Mr. Darman have counseled the President to engage in quiet discussions with Congressional leaders in the coming weeks and not take the political offensive against the Democrats, officials said.
"It's becoming increasingly obvious to everyone that the budget deal is going to have to be broken," one official said today. "The question is, do we do that by renegotiating it with Congress and going for another bipartisan arrangement, or do we come out in a more aggressive campaign stance, make our proposals and take them right to the country?"
Some Administration officials see January as a month that is, as one put it, "fraught with political peril."
"In the effort to convert the Asia trip into a domestic policy trip, they've added a group of businessmen, half of whom are fervent protectionists and all of whom will be free to criticize the President whenever they want," one official said.
 
A Variety of Activities
 Mr. Bush returns from Asia to a series of Democratic town meetings on health care on Jan. 14, and then the Administration plans an international conference on Soviet aid on Jan. 20.
"We face the prospect of having the news dominated by our foreign trip, their concern about health care, unscripted leaks on the budget, a conference that focuses on how much money we're going to give foreigners, and then a State of the Union with wildly high expectations," said one apprehensive official.
The economic proposals have been the subject of a series of Cabinet meetings and smaller strategy sessions in the Oval Office publicized by the White House as evidence that Mr. Bush is engaged on domestic issues. Administration aides have also been meeting on their own, officials said.
Mr. Darman has been conferring with Senator Bob Dole, the Senate minority leader. Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, and with some Democrats, including Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
On the other side of the debate, Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp was the host of a strategy lunch last week attended by Mr. Gingrich; Representative Vin Weber, Republican of Minnesota; Representative Mickey Edwards, Republican of Oklahoma; William Kristol, Mr. Quayle's chief of staff, and two Reagan Administration supply-side economists, Lawrence Kudlow and Steven J. Entin.
The discussion of political tactics comes amid major organizational efforts in the White House and in the campaign.
"Teeter and Skinner are very much aware of the need for a series of initiatives and a fresh-looking policy apparatus throughout the year," one official said. "The way to do that in the White House is primarily by being less budget-dominated and technocratic, which is clearly threatening to Darman. Skinner has made it clear he wants to cut Darman down some, and Darman has sent back the message that he does not intend to be cut down."
Mr. Teeter has been consulting with Mr. Skinner on virtually a daily basis since the former Transportation Secretary took office a week ago, officials said, to discuss campaign strategy, among other things.
"In the short term, we don't want to get humiliated in New Hampshire," an official said. "Then, how we gain some momentum and get voters to feel they are voting for something."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard G. Darman, left, the budget director, is urging President Bush to unveil his tax proposals in the State of the Union Message. Robert M. Teeter has been consulting with Samuel K. Skinner, the new chief of staff, about the President's campaign strategy, officials said. (The New York Times) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX RELIEF (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



821 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
Kevin Maxwell resigned as publisher and chairman of The Daily News, apparently bowing to the pressures created by the evidence of his role in the collapse of his family's media empire. His resignation signals the end of the Maxwell family's nine-month involvement in the paper. [Page A1.]
The judge overseeing the Drexel bankruptcy asked lawyers suing Michael Milken to negotiate a universal settlement. [D2.] 
 McCrory said it planned to close 229 of its more than 1,000 stores nationwide. [D3.]
Cray Computer suffered a potentially crippling blow as the initial customer for its first supercomputer system abruptly canceled its order. [D3.]
When drinking and doing business are mixed, companies may more often be held legally liable. [A10.]
 
THE ECONOMY
A significant shift in American gift-giving, born of hard times, is likely to color spending practices for Christmases to come. Americans with pocketbooks of all sizes are expressing boredom, distaste -- even disgust -- with frenzied spending. [A1.]
In an attempt to encourage more lending, the four Federal agencies that regulate banks and savings and loans are preparing new rules that would make it cheaper for institutions to make home-construction loans. [D1.]
Fannie Mae said phony bidding was common in its huge debt market, but it declined to impose financial penalties on the 53 banks and Wall Street firms that buy its securities. [D1.]
Americans' incomes shrank 0.1 percent last month as layoffs mounted, the Commerce Department reported. [D3.]
Quayle's Council on Competitiveness has proved to have little anti-regulatory muscle, some conservatives say. [A1.]
Bush campaign aides and budget advisers are split on how best to handle the issue of the economy. [A1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Oil prices have plunged deeply since OPEC last met, bringing tension within the organization to a crucial stage. [D1.]
A last-ditch effort to conclude five years of contentious world trade talks successfully hit two serious snags, as the European Community declared a compromise proposal to be unacceptable, and American industries offered little support. [D2.]
Demand for stocks in China is so strong that people line up on the streets. Now, the Government is planning to let foreigners in on the action. [D1.]
 
MARKETS
Stock prices leaped ahead in what traders saw as continued reaction to Friday's sharp cut in the discount rate. The Dow surged past the 3,000 barrier for the first time in more than a month, to 3,022.58, up 88.10, or 3 percent. [D1.]
The rally in the fixed-income markets continued, as prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose and interest rates fell. [D11.]
The dollar tumbled further in reaction to the widening interest-rate gap between the U.S. and Europe. [D12.]
Cattle prices rose in light trading as the market turned around after steep losses last week. Wheat prices gained. [D12.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Formerly hot growth stocks in consumer electronics have been going into something approaching free fall on reports of price-cutting. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
To comply with a new accounting rule for medical benefits promised to future retirees, a few companies have announced that they will take big deductions against profits. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
The criticism of "J.F.K." has caused Warner Brothers to make big changes in its advertising campaign. Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BOND MARKETS (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BONDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); JUDGES (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (61%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (60%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (55%); RETAILERS (55%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



822 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Texas Flood Ruins Homes and Spirits

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Pearl Crawford had only slim hopes for this Christmas to start with. Now she has none.
Ms. Crawford and her four children are among the 133 families who were flooded out of their homes last week in the Rochester Park neighborhood when the rain-swollen Trinity River spilled its banks. 
 "There really weren't many presents anyway, and we just left with the clothes on our backs," said Ms. Crawford, an unemployed single mother who relies on welfare to support her family.
"Whatever the Lord has in store for us, we'll be living with," said Ms. Crawford, "I do hope we'll be blessed with something more than we've had."
 
13 People Reported Killed
 The Associated Press reported today that 13 people had died as a result of flooding that was scattered across much of North and Central Texas. The search continued for four people still missing after being swept away by floodwaters.
After touring hard-hit areas in Bastrop County, Gov. Ann Richards said today that she was preparing a request for Federal disaster relief money. Governor Richards used a helicopter to tour the county, just east of Austin, where county officials estimated that $12 million to $15 million dollars of damage had been done to agricultural and residential property.
Here in Dallas, Rochester Park, a predominantly black neighborhood of the poor and working poor southeast of downtown, suffered substantial property damage though no one died.
This morning Ms. Crawford sat with dozens of her neighbors in a hallway of a Y.M.C.A. building that had been converted into a disaster relief center. They were calculating the toll both in damaged property and damaged lives.
 
40 Families Sent to Hotels
 In a room that normally serves as a day-care center, caseworkers from the American Red Cross interviewed flood victims to determine what emergency help they required. So far, 40 families have been sent to hotels while the rest have found shelter with friends or relatives.
On the walls of the day-care center, paper snowflakes and candy canes cut out and colored by children served as a reminder of what is supposed to be a joyous season. Down the hallway, families picked over a pile of donated clothes.
For many of those at the Y.M.C.A. today, flooding has become an uncomfortably familiar ritual.
"I'm 72 years old," Alice Sanders said, "and I don't need to be doing this.
"I've lived around here since 1955, and we had a couple of little ones along the way, but this is the third time in two years that we've gotten real wet."
 
Record Crests at River
 Rochester Park sits alongside the Trinity River, which passes through much of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area before it reaches this neighborhood of small bungalows, sprawling brick houses and public housing apartments.
In the last 20 years, Dallas-Fort Worth has had one of the fastest growing populations in the country, and as suburbs have stretched far out into what used to be countryside, the Trinity has been dammed and levied in so many places that it is now practically a man-made waterway, an urban river.
Forced to absorb ever-greater runoff as new areas have been paved, the Trinity reached record crests in the spring of both 1989 and 1990. The current flooding is modest in comparison, taking the river to a crest of 44.8 feet compared to the record of 47.1 feet set in 1990. The water has been receding since Sunday morning.
One of the relatively few places in the metropolitan area where the river runs untamed is Rochester Park. After the spring 1989 flood, the Dallas City Council voted to build a levee through Rochester Park and in November of that year a $8.5 million bond issue was approved for its construction. City officials have repeatedly told Rochester Park residents that when the levee is completed late next year or at the beginning of 1993 floods should be a thing of the past.
 
Promises of Drier Future
 But promises of a drier future had little weight today at the Y.M.C.A.
"It seems they are just using our neighborhood to store their water," said Cynthia Fowler, 67. "They have so many flood gates and dams and stuff everywhere you'd think they could manage it better."
Rochester Park was one of only a few neighborhoods in the Dallas-Fort Worth area to experience flooding last weekend. But minor flooding has become so common in Rochester Park that warnings went unheeded this time.
Ms. Crawford acknowledged today that the police had circulated through her neighborhood on Saturday, telling residents to make evacuation plans, and, then later, alerting them that flooding was imminent.
"We just kept an eye on it but didn't do much until it got to be nighttime," Ms. Crawford said.
As the water raced toward her two-story public housing apartment, she took a television set and a few valued possessions to the upper floor.
"The police were saying that we should be out at midnight, and people were starting to leave, so about 10:30 we decided we'd better go," she said. "I haven't been back since.".
Her four children, ages 7 to 17, are staying with a sister of Ms. Crawford's, and Ms. Crawford has been at her mother's house.
For Christmas, Ms. Crawford said, her only hopes were "that we can just be together for the day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dallas City Council promises residents of Rochester Park that Trinity River water will stop flooding the community when a levee is completed by 1993. Gary Robinson, right, talked with Evette Jackson about the floods, which have prevented him from returning to his Rochester Park home. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Texas showing location of Rochester Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS-FORT WORTH SUBURBAN NEWSPAPERS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TRINITY RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS; RAIN CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); WEATHER (77%); COUNTIES (67%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (67%); CITIES (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%); 

PERSON: ANN RICHARDS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



823 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Bush Spikes Holiday Speech With Politics

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
In a new sign of his concern about his re-election campaign, President Bush today issued a politically redrafted Christmas message that sounded more like a campaign speech than the customary holiday greeting from the White House.
"Just last week, I signed a transportation bill that will put hundreds of Americans back in good jobs," said Mr. Bush, who has been trying to persuade voters that he cares about their problems and is not just interested in foreign affairs. 
 The message, which is offered to radio and television stations for broadcast, was originally written by Anthony Snow, one of Mr. Bush's speechwriters, as an inspirational text using previous messages as a pattern, officials said.
But late last week, one official said, "word came down" that the message was to be reworked by Samuel K. Skinner, Mr. Bush's new chief of staff, and Robert M. Teeter, his campaign manager, to give it more political heft.
The message did contain words of inspiration for the holiday season. "Each day we can light the darkness by helping someone in need, working to see that no elderly person goes to bed hungry, that no homeless person spends another night shivering on the streets, that no child sits alone, unloved, unknown," Mr. Bush said.
He added, "Americans have the talent and power to do anything, and so when history remembers Christmas 1991, let it remember that we promise to bring God's light to our brothers and sisters in need."
But a large portion of the 600-word message was devoted to political themes as Mr. Bush extolled his record in foreign affairs and defended his performance on domestic issues.
"It was about one year ago in the interest of world peace that I decided Saddam Hussein's aggression would not stand, even if force had to be used," he said. "We tried diplomacy and economic embargoes, and then we moved against the brutal dictator and liberated Kuwait. When our troops returned home, we felt whole, proud of their courage, confident in ourselves."
At another point, Mr. Bush said: "This year, we unleashed a revolution in education. And I can tell you, by the end of this decade we will have the world's best schools, and our children will lead the next generation to a better future. And next week, I'll travel to Asia to fight for open markets and more opportunities for American workers, because exports abroad mean more jobs right here at home. Let there be no mistake. My No. 1 priority is jobs and economic growth, and I'm confident that we will succeed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CHILDREN (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



824 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:
A SCROOGE-LIKE SIGN OF RECESSION
Economists can go cross-eyed studying dry statistics like housing starts, industrial production and the money supply in their obsessive search for telling signs on the economy. But next year they might want to consider a different indicator: the demand for Christmas trees is noticeably lower this year. B5.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
MAXWELL QUITS THE DAILY NEWS
Kevin Maxwell resigned as publisher and chairman of The Daily News, apparently bowing to the pressures created by the evidence of his role in the collapse of the media empire founded by his father, Robert Maxwell. His resignation signals the end of the Maxwell family's nine-month involvement in The News. A1.
 
CITY JAILS CHIEF RESIGNS
The head of New York City's jail system, Allyn R. Sielaff, resigned hours after his department was rebuked for its handling of a $1.9 million contract awarded to a firm that had been represented in negotiations by a close friend of Mayor David N. Dinkins. His resignation ends a 20-month tenure that began with high praise for his innovation. But after a prison riot that state officials said he mishandled, his management policies came under steady criticism. A1.
 
GREEK ICON STOLEN IN QUEENS
The "weeping icon" of peace, which drew hundreds of thousands of pilgrims to a Queens church earlier this year, was stolen at gunpoint, the police said. A1.
 
REVERBERATIONS FROM KAHANE VERDICT
Several Jewish leaders called for new investigations into the killing of Rabbi Meir Kahane and into the acquittal of an Egyptian immigrant who was the prime suspect. The Manhattan District Attorney's office, meantime, defended its handling of what had been regarded as an open-and-shut case. B3.
 
CLOUDY ISSUES IN TRANSIT CONTRACT
A vote last week on a huge Metropolitan Transportation Authority contract ended a bruising seven-month competition that reflected the nettlesome issues that arise when officials leave government office and work for private companies that do business with their old agency. B3.
 
REGION
 
ATTICA CHAPLAIN RECALLS RIOT
In the war of 20-year-old memories at the Attica trial, the former prison chaplain put his word against that of former Attica inmates who are suing over what they say was the state's brutality in putting down their insurrection in 1971. Msgr. Eugene V. Marcinkiewicz remembered chilling details of the morning state forces took back the prison and left 10 hostages and 29 inmates dead and scores of others wounded. B5.
A BRIEF HOLIDAY FOR SCHOOL CLOSING
Students at the financially troubled University of Bridgeport have gone home for the holidays with assurances that classes "will in all probability" resume in January. But next semester will almost certainly be the university's last, as its trustees negotiate a merger with Sacred Heart University in the neighboring town of Fairfield. B5.
 
Closing up shop on a time gone by. Our Towns. B5.
 
Holiday Schedules B2
 
Neediest Cases B3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRISONS (88%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); VERDICTS (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); LITIGATION (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); MAYORS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); RIOTS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (65%); ACQUITTAL (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); CLOSINGS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



825 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: How Bad Is It? Well, Just Count the Trees.

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Regional economists can go cross-eyed studying dry statistics like housing starts, industrial production and the money supply in their relentless search for telling signs on the economy. But next year they might want to consider a different indicator: the demand for Christmas trees, those most sacred of objects, is noticeably lower this year, signaling a truly Scrooge-like existence for many families.
An informal survey of tree sellers in the New York region found that sales are off 20 to 50 percent compared with last year. And prices have had to be kept as low as last year's, or in some cases lower, to insure that even that poor sales record is met. 
 "I'll bet it's a good indicator," said the economist Edward S. Hyman, president of the International Strategy and Investment Group in New York, who once used wrapping-paper sales in his analyses..
Business is "slow, very slow," said Christopher McKay, who manages the McKay Farmstand in Aquebogue, L.I. At this time last year, Mr. McKay said, he had only a few trees left. This year, even though he ordered about 150 fewer trees, he still has about 100 left -- and he has already resorted to cutting his prices in half.
Mr. McKay's situation is not unique. Several grocers along upper Broadway said that although they had ordered a third fewer trees than last year, they still faced losing money on the 10 to 20 percent of their inventories that they expected to have left over after Christmas. And they even tried to spur sales by being more accommodating than usual with deliveries. Signs in front of the Good Nature store on Broadway and 98th Street advertised trees for $15, or $5 less than the store paid for them.
 
Counting on Last-Minute Rush
 The weak economy seems to be the cause of consumer reticence and increased haggling. "A lot of people say 'recession, recession,' and expect prices to be cut in half," said Artie Bridges, who sells trees from Canada on a vacant lot at First Avenue and 84th Street in Manhattan. This year, he said, a tree that was selling for $40 would have gone for $50 last year. Prices in the region vary widely depending where trees are sold and their type and height.
Believing that customers might be tempted in these hard times by smaller, cheaper trees, Mr. Bridges stocked up on some in the four-foot range. But he found that many customers simply expected the big trees to cost less. And that annoys him, he said, because people would not think of walking into a Mercedes showroom and demanding Chevy prices just because the economy was bad.
Now, with sales down about 20 percent, he is hoping for a Christmas Eve rush to get rid of his last 100 or so trees.
The recession blues have not hit every tree seller so hard. Tree farms, where customers can choose and cut their own trees, particularly in Connecticut and the Hudson River valley, seem to be faring much better than street-corner stands.
At Silverman's Farm in Easton, Conn., for instance, sales are up about 35 percent this year, Bob Sabia, the manager, said. His trees are selling for $30 apiece. And Fred Battenfeld, in Red Hook in Dutchess County, said he had sold as many trees as he wanted to at $30 apiece, or $2 more than last year.
 
Price Is Bottom Line
 Michael Pochan, secretary of the Connecticut Christmas Tree Growers Association, said his informal survey of the largest growers in the state indicated that sales would be higher than in previous years. His theory is that people want "something living, something to cheer them up."
But in Manhattan, price seems to count for more than a tree's soothing qualities. The Plant Shed, on West 96th Street, has been selling trees that are six feet and under for $29.99 since the season started, and on Sunday it extended that offer to trees of all sizes. Of the 1,000 trees the store ordered from its Pennsylvania wholesaler this year, it has sold 940, or about 300 more than last year.
Jay Casiano, the store manager, attributed his success to rock-bottom prices and good service.
"We're trying to fight the recession," Mr. Casiano said. "Everybody is in a bad mood. Everybody wants to shoot Bush." He hopes his Christmas tree sales will help take the edge off other parts of his business, like phone orders for flowers, which are down 30 to 40 percent from previous years.
But for some tree sellers, nothing seems to be working. One tree farmer in Connecticut says he has sold only 300 trees this year, compared with 1,000 last year. Part of his problem is that new tree farms have opened up in the area. But he also blames the economy.
"This was by far the worst year I can remember," said Louis Wasserman, the owner of Medridge Tree Farm in Sandy Hook, Conn., who has been in the business for a decade. "You want a tree farm?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: "A lot of people say 'recession, recession,' and expect prices to be cut in half," said Artie Bridges, in cap at center, who sells Christmas trees from Canada on a vacant lot at First Avenue and 84th Street in Manhattan. He has had to reduce prices this year to keep sales from falling too sharply. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RECESSION (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



826 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Case of Holiday Jitters On Electronics Stores

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
In the week before Christmas, Wall Street grew afraid that stereos and television sets and videocassette recorders did not cost enough.
That fear, brought on by reports of poor profit margins caused by price-cutting, has sent some formerly hot growth stocks into something approaching free fall, despite a general stock market increase brought on by lower interest rates. 
 "Everybody is suddenly getting the willies about the consumer electronics industry," Philip Muldoon, an analyst for the Ohio Company, said yesterday as the share price of Sun Television and Electronics, a chain based in Columbus, fell as low as $10, before rallying to close at $13, still down $1.375 for the day.
Sun, as it happens, has not released any bad news about Christmas, and Mr. Muldoon said the company continued to assure him that all was going well. But other companies have put out bad news, and yesterday investors were not in a mood to wait and see.
The selloff of the consumer retailers started on Thursday, when the Best Buy Company, a Minneapolis-based chain of consumer electronics stores, reported sharply higher earnings, just as bulls had expected, for the quarter ended Nov. 30. The catch came near the end of its news release: "December comparable-store sales are currently running below the prior year. An increased promotional environment has intensified pressure on gross profit margins. Both of these trends are reflective of the weakening economic environment and will likely impact earnings in the fourth quarter."
In other words, Best Buy said it was being forced to cut prices on its products, and that would hurt profits. The Wall Street reaction was swift. Best Buy fell $7.25, to $14, that day, a level that has held. At yesterday's closing price of $13.875, the shares are down 61 percent from a high of $35.375, reached Nov. 14.
When Best Buy crumbled, Good Guys began to shake, with its shares falling $4.50 over the final two sessions of last week, to $19. Good Guys Inc., based in San Francisco, had been a Wall Street star, based on rapid growth. "In the three years through Sept. 30, its sales were up at a compound annual rate of 142 percent a year, and its earnings per share rose at a 136 percent rate," said Donald Trott, an analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds. On Friday, he recommended selling the stock, pointing to the pressures of price competition.
 
California Worries
 After markets closed on Friday, Good Guys put out its own bad news. Sales were higher, and the expansion into Southern California was going well, said Robert A. Gunst, the company's president. "We have, however, had to be more aggressive in our promotional sales during this Christmas season than had been expected," he added. That put pressure on profit margins, and meant that earnings per share for the current quarter would be below those of a year ago, he said.
A negative article in Barron's over the weekend, forecasting that Good Guys would be damaged by California's deteriorating economy, added to the pressure, and yesterday the stock traded as low as $13.75, before closing at $14.75, off $4.25 for the day.
The collapse of Good Guys in only a couple of weeks -- it closed Dec. 6 at $27 -- is a measure of the revenge Wall Street can take. "It's a broken growth stock," Mr. Trott said. "When you break the earnings momentum, you get a compounding on the downside."
Good Guys had reported profits for the most recent fiscal year of $11 million, or 93 cents a share. At its peak price of $30, in September, it was trading at 32 times those earnings, and even now it is trading at a 16 multiple, a figure that assumes some growth.
At the heart of the problem for Good Guys is aggressive discounting by Circuit City Stores Inc., the largest company in the industry. Its shares have fallen $2.125, to $21.50, since the bad news hit Best Buy. Mr. Trott says the loss was relatively mild because Circuit City had not been viewed as a high-flying growth stock.
The high-flying nature of most of the stocks, at least before the past week, serves as testimony to the willingness of Wall Street to believe high-growth stories, even in industries known to be littered with problems. Much of the growth for the companies has been brought on by competitors' going out of business, but the possibility that such problems might spread seems to have been brushed aside by many investors. The executives of Best Buy and Good Guys were not so believing, however. A number of executives sold shares in November, at prices ranging from $22.375 to $25.25 at Good Guys and from $31.94 to $34.25 at Best Buy.
Even after the recent falls, these stocks rank as big winners for the year, with Best Buy up 147 percent, Good Guys showing a gain of 66 percent and Circuit City up 69 percent. Sun Television went public at $10 a share in July, and buyers at that offering now have a 30 percent gain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (83%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (83%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (83%); COMPUSA INC (82%); OHIO CO (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); SALES PROMOTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



827 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Divided on Meeting To Address Weak Oil Prices

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Oil prices have plunged deeply since OPEC last met at the end of November, bringing tension within the cartel to a crucial stage.
With prices now down $5 a barrel since then, to around $17 a barrel, Algeria called today for an emergency meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Itwarned that if the group did not trim its production by at least two million barrels a day soon, prices could tumble further, to $10 a barrel, under the combined impact of worsening recession in the United States and other industrialized countries and the organization's runaway production. 
 But so far Saudi Arabia, by far OPEC's largest producer, has opposed an emergency meeting and resisted appeals to reduce its enormous production of 8.5 million barrels a day, or 35 percent of OPEC's output, arguing that the unexpected oil price plunge resulted from the actions of market speculators.
Today the Nicosia-based oil newsletter, the Middle East Economic Survey, quoted senior Saudi officials as having given a negative reply to an inquiry about an emergency OPEC meeting by the group'ss president, Jibril Amino, the oil minister of Nigeria, who polled the group's 13 members.
Speaking in an interview here today, Algeria's energy minister, Nordine Ait Laoussine, said, "We think the organization should move immediately to cut its production by at least 10 percent -- otherwise we will face an even greater collapse, which none of us can afford."
Nigeria, Iran and Libya have also expressed alarm over the impact of the fall in their anticipated revenues because of the oil price decline. Analysts and industry officials fear that unless action is taken to trim production, currently 24 million barrels a day, prices may touch record lows in the spring, particularly because earlier expectations of a quick end to recession and strong winter demand for oil have failed to materialize.
"Market speculation can move prices by $1 a barrel one way or the other, but a fall of $5 a barrel over a few weeks indicates a much more structural problem," Mr. Ait Laoussine said.
The price of North Sea Brent crude, a benchmark for oil prices, has fallen from $22.50 a barrel in early November, before OPEC met in Vienna, to $17.40 a barrel just before last weekend. The OPEC average oil price has fallen too, from close to $21 a barrel to around $16 a barrel.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange light, sweet crude oil has fallen from about $23 a barrel in early November to as low as $18.30 in trading today.
"Such a fall in price was supposed to happen in the spring, not now," said Peter Gignoux, chief oil trader in London for Shearson Lehman Hutton. "For this time of year, $17 a barrel is a very low price."
 
Not Viewed as Critical
 Saudi Arabia continues to maintain that while it is not in favor of very low oil prices, it does not see the present situation as critical.
A majority of oil experts and industry executives, however, maintain that the price drop is highly unusual, because winter demand normally lifts oil prices. They also say that the depth of the recession has combined with a steady rise in production to depress prices.
"This goes against all the rosy predictions of higher prices by OPEC during its November meeting," John H. Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, said in a telephone interview. "It is a big and surprising fall in oil prices. By any standards, this is dramatic."
But Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates, which significantly increased their output after the Persian Gulf crisis, have been reluctant to consider a rollback in output or an emergency OPEC meeting, which by itself could raise prices.
Some political analysts say their reluctance carries political dimensions; that it may reflect the desire of some producers not to take measures that would help oil producers that were viewed as having sympathized with Iraq during the gulf crisis, like Algeria and Libya.
But Mr. Ait Laoussine of Algeria cites facts in arguing for a price increase: "We are far below the OPEC price target of $21 a barrel," he said. "There are indications that the recession in industrialized countries like the United States, Western Europe and even in Japan is going to get worse. It is clear that certain OPEC countries have been too optimistic in their forecasts."
He also noted that the oil production and exports of the former Soviet Union's various republics had steadied despite the political chaos there. He also noted that there is a chance that Iraq may resume exporting oil in the next quarter, further adding to the oversupply of the market. Iraq will meet with United Nations representatives in early January to consider ending the embargo on its oil exports imposed in August 1990, after it invaded Kuwait.
Moreoever, Mr. Gignoux of Shearson Lehman Hutton said, the United States, whose oil output has dropped to 7.5 million barrels a day, is "drowning in oil inventories."
None of these facts coincide with OPEC's calculations of just a few weeks ago, which counted heavily on continued shortages of oil to justify the fact that the group was pumping oil at maximum capacity.
OPEC's economic experts expected that oil demand would drop by early February and had scheduled a meeting for the group's Market Monitoring Committee on Feb. 12 in Geneva to take stock of the situation.
But events seem to have overtaken these assumptions. Experts now say if OPEC does not act earlier, it risks seeing oil prices closer to $10 a barrel by February, which would bring prices to the lowest level since they crashed in 1986 to between $8 and $10 a barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ALGERIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAUDI ARABIA; ALGERIA SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ALGERIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GASOLINE (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



828 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long-Term Prices Advance Again

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The rally in the fixed-income markets continued yesterday, as prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose and interest rates fell.
Traders said that business was brisk during the morning and that the market's mood was not clouded by a report that personal-consumption spending had risen by seven-tenths of 1 percent in November, a much bigger increase than had been expected. 
 Economists said the size of the gain was skewed by cold weather, which drove up spending on utilities. Excluding that category, spending was up a more modest four-tenths of 1 percent.
 
More Signs of Weakness
 "The rise in consumption was almost entirely due to increases in purchases of nondiscretionary services," said Joseph Liro, senior vice president and money market economist at S. G. Warburg & Company. "And the personal income numbers were absolutely ugly."
The Commerce Department also reported that personal income fell by a tenth of 1 percent in November.
In addition to those signs of economic weakness, Mr. Liro and other analysts said that the final results of the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey for December had showed that consumer attitudes slumped further from levels recorded in November.
The overall decline was somewhat startling, Mr. Liro said, because a reading taken at midmonth showed that consumers were feeling a bit better than they had in November.
 
Bonds and Notes Higher
 The reports, coupled with the aftermath of the Federal Reserve's significant cuts on Friday in the overnight Federal funds rate and the discount rate, helped to push prices higher, particularly for longer-term notes and bonds.
"People are searching for yield," one government bond trader said. "The Fed's move finally woke people up to the magnitude of the weakness that we have and to the fact that inflation probably won't be a threat for the next year to 18 months."
Market participants said the sharp rise in stock prices helped to accelerate the move into higher-yielding bonds and notes.
The sharp fall in short-term rates last week was reflected in the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills.
Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 3.75 percent, down sharply from the average rate of 4.14 percent at last week's sale. It was the lowest rate on a three-month bill since the auction on May 15, 1972, when the rate was 3.699 percent.
Bids on the new six-month bills generated an average discount rate of 3.85 percent, compared with an average rate of 4.19 percent at the auction a week ago.
The six-month bill rate was the lowest since the rate averaged 3.796 percent on March 6, 1972.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 10522/32 , up 3/4 point to yield 7.51 percent, compared with 7.57 percent late on Friday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered in late trading at 10417/32 , up 21/32 , to yield 6.86 percent. And the new 5 percent two-year notes were offered at 10011/32 , up 1/32 , to yield 4.81 percent.
 
Holiday Schedule
 Yesterday the Public Securities Association, a trade group, said it had recommended that trading in a number of fixed-income securities, including government securities, mortgage-backed securities and bankers' acceptances, conclude at 1 P.M. today in observance of Christmas Eve. Financial markets will be closed tomorrow, Christmas Day.
The association also said that it had recommended that trading should conclude by 2 P.M. on Dec. 31, New Year's Eve.
Activity in the secondary markets for investment-grade and tax-exempt municipal bonds was very slow, according to dealers.
Prices of most corporate bonds rose by 1/4 point to 3/8 point. Prices of the most widely quoted municipal bonds improved by about 3/8 point in thin trading.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of new three- and six-month Treasury bills:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Both these issues are dated Dec. 26, 1991. The three-month bills mature on March 26, 1992, and the six-month bills on June 25, 1

GRAPHIC: Photo: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills from 9/91 to 12/91 (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT S G WARBURG & CO LTD (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



829 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Trade Plan Criticized, Stalling World Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
A last-ditch effort to conclude five years of contentious world trade talks successfully hit two serious snags today, as the European Community declared a compromise proposal to be unacceptable, and American industries offered little support.
The European Community's trade ministers strongly criticized a compromise trade agreement proposed on Friday by Arthur Dunkel, the Director General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
 "Insofar as the Dunkel paper calls into question the foundation of the community's agricultural policy, the paper is not acceptable and therefore has to be modified," the ministers said in a statement issued in Brussels, The Associated Press reported.
The trade ministers' action was especially significant because they have historically been more committed to free trade than European agriculture ministers, who also play an important role in forming the community's food-trade policies.
 
Swift U.S. Criticism
 The possible compromise on a 108-nation trade agreement also drew criticism from American industries that would be hurt like sugar beet farmers and steel producers. Industries that would benefit gave it scant support mixed with raw hostility.
The entertainment industry, for example, is complaining that it did not get enough.
Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat and staunch supporter of free trade on the House Subcommittee on Trade, said Congress could refuse to approve such a deal because it lacks corporate support, coupled with a weak economy.
The draft agreement released late on Friday in Geneva "really doesn't mean progress; it just means they've reshuffled the cards," Mr. Matsui said today, adding, "I don't see it going anywhere, and certainly none of our industries can be particularly cheered by this."
 
Film Industry's Concerns
 Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America and a lobbyist important to the approval of any deal involving copyrights and royalties, said that he would oppose the proposed pact in Congress unless it was changed.
He said that Mr. Dunkel's proposal, while allowing film copyrights to stay in force longer than some American trade partners had sought, was inadequate because it would take years to go into force, would not protect corporate ownership rights to movies and would condone foreign quotas that limit the broadcasting of television shows.
Representative Sam M. Gibbons, the Florida Democrat who heads the House Subcommittee on Trade, and Representative Don J. Pease, an Ohio Democrat also on the committee, both said in interviews last week that enthusiastic support from the entertainment industry would be needed for a deal to move through Congress.
The United States has an annual trade surplus of $3.5 billion in film, television and home video, Mr. Valenti said.
But most large corporate lobbying groups declined to give an immediate reaction today, saying they needed to read the lengthy legal text.
The United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, told a small group of business leaders today that Mr. Dunkel's proposal was closer to the American position on the crucial issue of agriculture subsidies than to the European Community's position, an executive who attended the meeting said. He insisted on anonymity.
The GATT talks, which began in Uruguay, foundered last year on the subsidies issue, and there is general agreement that a continued impasse could defeat the agreement because farm groups on either side of the Atlantic could block ratification.
 
Farm Groups Speak Out
 The American Farm Bureau Federation said today that the proposed pact would only partly meet its goals of substantially cutting the use of export subsidies and obtaining a significant opening of foreign markets. Steven A. McCoy, the president of the North American Export Grain Association, said that as the likelihood of a major breakthrough on agriculture faded, support from farm groups was waning.
But he and most other trade specialists, both in favor of and opposed to the proposed agreement, cautioned that it was much too early to declare the world's trade talks dead.
"People are shell-shocked, the process is going through a second round of deadlines, and there's almost a Never-Never-Land attitude, where people aren't sure whether they're looking at a final deal or the beginning" of more talks, Mr. McCoy said.
Dire warnings that the world's multilateral trade talks were near collapse have been issued repeatedly, before and after they broke down a year ago in Brussels over Europe's agricultural subsidies.
Even if a GATT agreement does survive, its timetable is now so stretched that it could affect progress on a free-trade agreement with Mexico, the other main negotitating assignment of Mrs. Hills's office. The trade representative said at a news briefing last week that most of the agency's officials had gone to Geneva for the talks there.
Although widely described as comprehensive, Mr. Dunkel's draft does not address the question of opening markets for services like international telephone calls, for which the negotiations will extend into April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (84%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); FILM (86%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); SUGAR BEET FARMING (70%); SUGAR FARMING (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (52%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ROBERT T MATSUI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



830 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2493 words

HEADLINE: Some See Trend in the Low-Key Christmas of '91

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Staggered, or at least left stumbling, by the recession, more and more Americans this holiday season are toting up their financial well-being and are shunning freewheeling consumption. That mood, experts say, is causing a significant shift in American gift-giving that it is likely to color spending practices for Christmases to come.
Talks with about 70 shoppers, merchants and store clerks in Seattle and Columbus, Ohio, found Americans with pocketbooks of all sizes expressing boredom, distaste -- even disgust -- with the spending frenzy of Christmases past. 
 Many said they now favored traditional over trendy, and frugality above all else. Husbands and wives have agreed not to buy each other presents, and many families have placed limits on gifts for aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, cousins and second cousins to rein in spending.
While store executives and other retailing experts have recognized that such cost consciousness has all but killed this year's holiday sales, they are only now beginning to consider an even more-sobering thought: Even when the good economic times return, the spending sprees may not.
"It seems like the 70's and 80's practice of frivolous, excessive spending at Christmas is out, if not completely over with," said Philip Johnson, president of Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a consumer research company in Chicago. "That kind of spending may never come back."
A national survey Dec. 15 by the company echoed what the Seattle and Columbus interviews disclosed about favoring flannel nighties over fur coats and shopping at outlet centers instead of department stores. Of those polled by Shapiro, 61 percent said they would spend less on Christmas gifts this year. That was the highest level since the Christmas spending polls began 13 years ago.
Mr. Johnson said he believed that the dour outlook would extend beyond this one bad season, because four out of five people surveyed said they felt good about spending less.
"They're not buying, and they're happy about it," Mr. Johnson said. "If it feels good not to spend, why wouldn't they continue this pattern?"
Few retailers totally endorse Mr. Johnson's conclusions. Most of them insist, as Kenneth A. Macke of the Dayton Hudson Corporation did not long ago, that Santa will always come, bringing with him sales and profits.
Still, some are beginning to wonder. Asked whether three disappointing holiday sales seasons in a row indicated a fundamental change in consumer spending patterns, Lasker M. Meyer, vice chairman of Houston-based Specialty Retailers Inc., said: "That's a very good question. I don't have an answer yet. I think probably retailers have higher expectations for Christmas than are reasonable."
Mr. Meyer, long experienced in retailing's ups and downs, described his expectations for Christmas 1992 as conservative.
 
Shopping 'Doesn't Seem Fun'
 Jane Shafer, 28 years old, dropped into a Seattle mall not to buy anything but just to take her three young children, including newborn twins, to see Santa Claus. "Shopping just doesn't seem fun anymore," she said, adding that as her husband's commissions from medical equipment sales have shrunk, so, too, has her holiday shopping list. "I am worried about money because of the new kids," she said.
Backing up their premise that the penurious shopper is here to stay, Mr. Johnson and retail consultants point to the mind-boggling success of retailers like Wal-Mart and the Gap. They have soared by selling basics at low prices, at the expense of department stores and other merchants with high overhead expenses.
"For many Americans, the recession is permanent," Walter F. Loeb, a retail consultant, wrote in his latest newsletter. "Consumers have changed their priorities. In light of higher taxes and the uncertainties of employment and world affairs, they have cut back their wants and needs."
All of this is likely to put additional pressure on the nation's retailers, some of whom are struggling to survive and all of whom have long relied on the holiday season for most of their revenues and profits.
Even those who have not been mauled by the economy are trimming the fat in ways that could well endure beyond this Christmas.
 
The Shoppers
Turning Against The Buy, Buy, Buy
 Mary Palmer, a Redmond, Wash., mother of three who makes dolls on the side, is spending about half the amount of money on gifts as she did last year because of a drop in her family's income. Instead of rushing from store to store, Mrs. Palmer is arranging for her family an inexpensive gift but one she considers priceless: time together.
They joined their neighbors in trimming an outdoor Christmas tree. And they are borrowing a cabin belonging to Mrs. Palmer's sister in the Cascade Mountains, where they will ski and sled.
"They're getting our attention this year instead of our money," Mrs. Palmer said of her children. "Ultimately, I believe the kids are going to remember these kinds of things more than any sporting equipment, computer game or sweater I could get them.
"I'm just tired of buying and buying and buying. I always felt letdown on Christmas Eve when I was frantically trying to wrap everything I had bought, and being somewhat financially pinched this year gave me the perfect excuse to get away from all that."
Helen Evenson, a 78-year-old former Boeing employee in Seattle, whose retirement income has shrunk as the interest paid on her savings has declined, is opening savings accounts for many of her 13 grandchildren instead of buying them toys.
Other formerly avid shoppers are saving money by exercising old talents, making presents for members of their extended family or offering to do chores and tasks instead of presenting gifts.
 
Sticking to the Practical
 In Columbus, Cathy Tran bought her 5-year-old son, Gregory, a soft blanket for his bed instead of a new toy that would quickly lose his attention. Although her husband has a lucrative -- and seemingly secure -- job selling computer engineering equipment, the family's 11-year-old daughter, Karen, will probably get an outfit for school from the Limited, and the oldest son, Jeff , will not get a 16-bit video game system costing more than $150, but will receive a new game for the old 8-bit system the family bought a couple of years ago.
"We have enough toys at home," Mrs. Tran said. "We really have enough of just about everything, and I'm not just going to buy, buy, buy because it's Christmas. It's gotten to be too much of a circus."
Mrs. Tran reports that her attitude is rubbing off on some of her children. Pushing a big cart through the wide, strangely deserted aisles at the new Target discount store in northwest Columbus, Mrs. Tran worried about what to get her 8-year-old, Larissa. "We told her we'd get her Roller blades but she said just to wait until she outgrows her rollerskates first," she said. "None of my kids is bombarding me with lists this year."
Larissa is not atypical, according to Chad Rager, a Santa Claus in the Northland Mall in northeastern Columbus. He reported that children's Christmas wishes this year largely reflect the caution they have probably heard their parents express.
"Instead of sitting here and reeling off a list of 10 or 20 presents," he said, " most kids are asking for one or two things."
"I think they appreciate that their folks may be feeling financially tight right now."
 
Generational Worries
 Rhonda and Vernon Granberg, who were shopping in a Seattle mall, said they feel secure about their own finances but worry a little about the fate of their children. Their two sons have jobs and their daughter, who just graduated from college, is looking for one. But the cost of housing in Seattle has kept all three at home.
"It's almost impossible for younger people just starting to make it," said Mr. Granberg, who is in the shipping business. "I think jobs are harder to find, those that are available are minimum wage, housing is unaffordable and the prices of food and clothing keep going up."
Mrs. Granberg said: "Everything is changing, and nobody knows where the changes are taking us. The war we went through this year was something we never thought would happen, but it did. Everybody says Boeing is stable and healthy, but who really knows?"
It has been more than a year since Lora Lonadier's husband, Jay, who is 27, lost his job as the manager at a Lerner's women's clothing store in Columbus. Now, sometimes with help from her father, the couple try to make ends meet on the $11,000 to $12,000 a year Ms. Lonadier earns as a librarian.
 
Homemade, Not Bought
 "I feel like a juggler," Ms. Lonadier, who is 28, said as she carefully filled a container with the leftovers of a chicken-and-broccoli Chinese lunch her father bought for her in the food court of a small shopping strip. "It's just always too close for comfort, and I live in constant fear that one week we're going to come up short."
This Christmas she is fashioning ornaments and refrigerator magnets out of cookie dough and making wall hangings, table runners, placemats and doilies to give as gifts. She will buy gifts only for her nearest and dearest and only on sale in discount or outlet stores, although she has shopped at the Lazarus department store because she has a Lazarus credit card.
Unable to find work in the retail business, Mr. Lonadier has started pursuing a master's degree in education at Ohio State University. With student loans covering the tuition, they can just pay the mortgage on the house they bought shortly before Mr. Lonadier lost his job, and their credit cards help to stretch out payments.
"I just don't see how things are going to get better for them," said Clyde Sullivan, Ms. Lonadier's father, as he watched her carefully save the luncheon leftovers. "'Whenever I'm with Lora, I try to buy her a meal or some groceries or things like that, but it's hard because she's got to have her pride, too."
After paying their monthly bills, Mr. Sullivan and his wife, Marylou, have little discretionary income left over from the Social Security check and the small pension he receives from the university, where he coordinated the stocks of medical supplies for several years. "As soon as the money comes in, it seems to go right back out the door," he said.
Mr. Sullivan and others doubted that the Government and the Bush Administration could find any way to revive the flagging economy. "Every Government official who stands up on TV and says the recession is over ought to be shot," said Molly Hague, a retired church secretary at St. Mark's Episcopal Church.
Her friend Ann Slabaugh said she was angry at Congress for giving itself a pay increase, angry at President Bush and Congress for raising taxes, and angry with the Federal Reserve for lowering interest rates, which has forced her to dip into her savings because the interest she earns is so low. "Even Alan Greenspan admitted that he may have made a mistake," Mrs. Slabaugh said. "I can't afford his mistakes."
 
The Retailers
A Slump in Morale On the Sales Floor
 Tracy Bradham is on the front lines of the war retailers are fighting this holiday season. She is the first face customers see when they walk into the J. C. Penney store in Westland Mall in Columbus. As an Ultima II cosmetics sales associate she probably has more contact with potential customers than anyone else in the store because, she says, many shoppers just take a few steps inside and decide to leave.
She also hears more and more complaints. "I saw this for $3 or $4 less at Pay 'N Save," said one woman, waving an $18 Christmas decoration in Miss Bradham's face before setting it back on the shelf and walking out of the store.
Miss Bradham, 20, who works for Revlon, Ultima II's parent company, and not Penney, has heard it all before. "Everybody's looking for a bargain this Christmas," she said. "They come in here to get ideas, and then they go buy the things somewhere else for cheaper. They like to point it out, too. It must make them feel better."
 
Promoting a Bargain
 In this environment, making a sale takes a lot of Miss Bradham's ingenuity. Spotting a potential shopper lingering near pallets of eyeshadows, blushes and lipsticks that comprise Ultima II's 1991 holiday promotion, Miss Bradham moved in for a sale. She explained that the five lipsticks in the box would cost a total of about $55 if purchased separately, but the customer could get them plus other cosmetics in a set valued at $300 for a mere $25 if the customer spent $12.50 on other Ultima II products.
Miss Bradham's ploy is to suggest a purchase of mascara -- the one item that is not in the promotion and costs $12 plus tax. "If everybody's out looking for a deal this year and I've got a deal to sell, they're not going to know about unless I tell them," she said.
This apparently is not an attitude shared by many of her colleagues. Miss Bradham was the only person to pitch a sale to a browser who walked through more than two dozen specialty stores and six department stores in three malls one recent day.
Younkers, the Midwestern department store chain based in Des Moines, has spent two years developing a program to train its sales associates to sell harder. Perhaps not coincidentally, Younkers is one of the few retailers this holiday season reporting gains that outpace the rate of inflation.
Thomas Gould, the president of Younkers, attributes his stores' relative success to a strategy of selling more to its customers. "It's not that we have more customers, in fact, we probably have fewer," Mr. Gould said. "We just make sure we're selling more to those customers who are coming in."
 
Lacking the Selling Instinct
 But most of his competitors pay only lip service to such a notion. Retail service has long been a source of complaints, but this year's cranky consumers seem to have especially suppressed the selling instincts of most store clerks, who idle away their hours chatting with each other, rearranging merchandise, lurking around the cash registers and generally doing anything to avoid shoppers.
"I stood in the middle of one department at Marshall Field's for almost 15 minutes, wondering where everybody had gone," said Gladys Patterson, a 73-year-old shopper in Columbus. "Finally I just gave up."
Consumers said they were frustrated, too, by the shallow selections in most stores. Retailers have ordered carefully this season to avoid having too much merchandise left over, and some shoppers are finding that stores are sold out of the gifts they would like to buy.
Dora Ashworth, a 54-year-old retired machinist in Seattle, gave up on finding a red angora sweater for her daughter. She did find one at Nordstrom in Northgate Mall. But it cost $299, and she did not want to spend more than than $100. "They don't have what you want, and if they do, they want an arm and a leg for it," Mrs. Ashworth said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Palmer, right, is just one of many Americans who this year are rejecting much of the free spending that has come to characterize Christmas. Mrs. Palmer and her sister, Sue Magnuson, have been making dolls and doll furniture at home to augment the family income, which dipped this year. (Doug Wilson for The New York Times); Lora Lonadier's husband has been out of work for more than a year. She is buying gifts only for those closest to her, and her purchases are restricted to sale items at discount or outlet stores. She is making other gifts, like the wall hanging that she was weaving recently. (J. Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (83%); SSI (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (83%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (83%); STAGE STORES INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); OHIO, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); RETAILERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE PHILIP JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



831 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Closing Up Shop on a Time Gone By

BYLINE: By Andrew H. Malcolm

DATELINE: ASBURY PARK, N.J.

 BODY:
YOU might say Al Samaha was born with retailing in his blood. His father was a traveling candy salesman. His mother had a women's apparel store here. Even his birth in 1928 occurred in the store's stockroom, which doubled as the family's apartment.
But an awful lot has changed during the depersonalization of American retailing -- the malling of America, the chain-storing of every commercial corner, the decline of downtowns, the rise of mail order, and the eruption of superstores called marts with vast staffs of ill-informed salesclerks on perpetual break. Not to mention the natural aging of the owners of those Ma and Pa stores. And the disinterest of their children in working six days a week. All of which explains the presence of the man in the black suit. 
 "Do I look like a mortician?" says Stephen G. Mazur, who is, in a way. He puts little businesses like Mr. Samaha's to sleep.
The personable Mr. Mazur is hired for his considerable merchandising expertise to oversee two-month Quitting Business sales, minimizing the owners' leftovers and maximizing their profits while gently guiding these typically old-time operations into commercial oblivion. Such a sale is not big news because, beyond the owner's family, it obviously doesn't affect our lives any.
Business is great for Quitting Business sales these days, what with the recession, corporate downsizing and a general fear of the future inhibiting investments. In recent times, Mr. Mazur has driven his Lincoln Town Car from a drugstore in Westport, Conn., to a lumberyard in Kentucky to a stationery store in Plainfield, N.J., to a music store in Alton, Ill., to a party-goods store in Fords, N.J.
In October, he arrived at Mr. Samaha's Dainty Apparel Store here on Cookman Avenue, where boarded-up windows have outnumbered thriving businesses ever since what the local newspaper calls "the 1970 racial unpleasantness."
"I'm burned out," said the 63-year-old Mr. Samaha, who planned a career in chemistry until his mother sought his temporary help 47 years ago. "I want time to rest."
Through G. A. Wright Inc., a promotional clearing house in Denver with some 200 subcontractors like Mr. Mazur, Mr. Samaha subscribed to a detailed, carefully timed strategy of closing his store, involving a sudden sale, escalating discounts, special red signs and an incredibly complex contest for $2,000 in prizes. With points awarded for regular purchases, extra points awarded for extra purchases on special days and bonus points for stopping by, contestants can amass millions of points.
"I never thought my customers would go for such a thing," said Mr. Samaha. "But they're flooding in."
Mr. Samaha had a mailing list of 3,000 faithful customers, inscribed over the years in two tattered notebooks coded for the tastes of each woman, many of whom still favor white gloves for an afternoon's outing. When Dainty Apparel received a new shipment, the clerks would phone their clients with word of a particular new outfit. Knowing such preferences, clerks also advised forgetful husbands on last-minute gifts. This was called personal service.
Mr. Mazur arrived with his own mailing list of 19,000 area residents. The computer had already discarded men-only and low-income addresses. Had Mr. Mazur been closing a hardware store, the computer would have dropped all female-only households and apartment dwellers, where do-it-yourselfers do not abound.
"My job," said Mr. Mazur, "is to maintain traffic." He juggles discounts, new mailings and ads and strenuously promotes contest competition. It is a demanding, sometimes emotional regimen of 16-hour days and late-night deli salads downed in motel rooms while hand-addressing next week's mailing. Mr. Mazur, who is understandably single, visits his Chicago home so infrequently that bees have built a huge hive in his laundry-room vent.
He is also a counselor. "When they finally decide to close," he says, "owners don't really realize what they're getting into, or out of. For them, it's the end of a family's way of life. I've seen so many. I work hard trying to move every item. But much of my time is spent as a sympathetic ear, preparing the owner for that last afternoon in an empty store when there's nothing left of these years but dustballs."
Saturday was Dainty Apparel's last afternoon. The staff of four shed some tears. Emma Vitale's 109.7 million bonus points won the grand prize of a color television. Some leftover bridal gowns went to charity. And another storefront was boarded up.
This morning Mr. Mazur checked out of his motel for the first time since Oct. 10 and aimed his car back toward Chicago. January is looking very good, Denver reports.
In a week or so, Mr. Mazur will be back on the road to the next Quitting Business sale that is not big news because, beyond the owner's family, it obviously doesn't affect our lives any.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Business is great for Quitting Business sales, what with the recession, corporate downsizing and a general fear of the future inhibiting investments. Stephen G. Mazur, right, helps Al Samaha, Dainty Apparel store owner, in a going-out-of-business sale. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DAINTY APPAREL (ASBURY PARK, NJ) G A WRIGHT INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAINTY APPAREL (ASBURY PARK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (75%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (73%); 

PERSON: SAMAHA, AL; MALCOLM, ANDREW H

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



832 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Eased Rule For Loans

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
In an attempt to encourage more lending, the four Federal agencies that regulate banks and savings and loans are preparing new rules that would make it cheaper for institutions to make home-construction loans.
The Office of Thrift Supervision, which supervises the nation's savings associations, was the first of the four agencies to announce today that it would cut in half the amount of money that savings and loans must put aside as a cushion against possible losses from low-risk residential construction loans. 
 The Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency are expected to issue similar proposals soon for the banks that they regulate.
 
Easing 'Credit Crunch'
 The move by the four agencies, which has been coordinated by the the Treasury Department, is the latest move in the Bush Administration's broader effort to ease what it sees as a "credit crunch" that has inhibited an economic recovery.
Under the Treasury's guidance, the agencies have put pressure on their examiners to ease lending guidelines for banks and savings associations and have issued new guidelines intended to give institutions more latitude in making loans.
The examiners have come under criticism from President Bush and the Secretaries of Commerce and Treasury as a leading cause of tight credit by applying loan guidelines too strictly.
 
Capital Requirement Halved
 Banks and savings associations must now put aside $8 as capital for every $100 in home-construction loans. But when the new rule is given final approval, expected in the spring, it will permit banks to set aside $4 for every $100 in home construction loans in which an owner has already put up at least 5 percent in earnest money for the home. The 5 percent is intended to reduce the riskiness of the loan.
"It may significantly modify what's available to homeowners," said T. Timothy Ryan Jr., director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. "There is a lack of available credit for new-home construction."
Mr. Ryan has taken a leading position among regulators in responding to the tightening of credit by lenders and is widely speculated to be among the Administration's top choices as the new head of the Office of Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates many of the nation's banks.
Robert L. Clarke, the Acting Comptroller, was denied a second term by the Senate Banking Committee last month. He is expected to step down in February.
Administration officials said they had also been considering a plan that would encourage more lending and shore up banks' balance sheets by lowering the costs of purchase-mortgage-servicing rights, which are finding their way into the portfolios of banks that buy failed savings institutions.
Such rights are contracts bought or held by banks and savings associations under which institutions manage a portfolio of mortgages -- processing the monthly payments, distributing the proceeds among investors and handling foreclosures.
The Comptroller of the Currency, the regulator ofnationally chartered banks, now permits up to 25 percent of such contracts to constitute capital. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision allow up to 50 percent.
An interagency task force has been considering a plan that would move the level of the Comptroller of the Currency to 50 percent, which would be helpful to some of the nation's largest commercial banks, including Citicorp, the Fleet/Norstar Financial Group and the Norwest Corporation, all of which have large portfolios of purchase-mortgage-servicing rights.
In another move aimed at reducing the costs at savings associations, the Office of Thrift Supervision today proposed to remove all barriers to interstate branching by federally chartered savings associations.
The O.T.S. now permits savings associations to open branches across state lines for Federal institutions in limited instances and to acquire troubled institutions. When such branching is allowed, current restrictions often make it expensive to open the new branches because they require separate companies with separate boards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (60%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (77%); TIM RYAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



833 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Incomes Off, Spending Up Last Month

BYLINE: By Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Americans' incomes shrank last month as layoffs mounted, but rising expenses pushed up spending and curtailed savings, the Commerce Department reported today.
 Personal incomes fell one-tenth of 1 percent from October, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.88 trillion -- the first monthly drop in incomes since July, when they fell three-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Consumers' spending rose a surprising seven-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $3.95 trillion last month. The spending is closely monitored as a possible source of growth since consumers account for two-thirds of economic activity.
 
 
Weather Was a Factor
 But Richard Berner, an economist for Salomon Brothers in New York, said much of the increase was a result of cold weather in many regions last month, which pushed up spending for natural gas and electric service.
 Excluding the utility spending, which is a largely unavoidable expense, consumption rose only four-tenths of 1 percent in November.
 "It's not a strong picture," Mr. Berner said.
 The White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said the drop in personal income reflected the economy's problems. "It reflects the flat and sluggish economy that we find ourselves in," he said.
 Asked at a briefing whether the Federal Reserve Board's discount rate cut on Friday was sufficient to stimulate the economy, Mr. Fitzwater said: "We would leave it to the Fed to make a judgment.
 "But we think they are on the right track. We believe there is room for declining interest rates. But we won't try to dictate that at this point."
 The Commerce Department report showed that savings suffered in November, with the seasonally adjusted annual rate dipping to $200.1 billion from $232.6 billion in October and from $216 billion in September.
 One of the leading causes for economists' fears that the nation is headed back into recession is anxiety among consumers about their jobs in the face of rising layoffs.
 The most stunning announcement came last week when the General Motors Corporation said it was closing 21 plants and eliminating 74,000 jobs over the next four years.
 But Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers, said more than simply negative psychology was at work in retarding the economy's struggle out of recession.
 "Rather, it is bound up with real economic conditions: slow real income gains and weak balance sheets," he said.
 
 
Aftermath of the 80's
 Not only weak growth in job opportunities and wages are at play, but also high indebtedness and declines in the value of homes are revealing the fragility of the 1980's boom in consumption spending, the economist said.
 "The reality is that consumers are overspending -- personal consumption expenditures are growing much faster than real disposable incomes," Mr. Richards said.
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has testified before Congress several times, and again last week, that more savings are a prerequisite for building capital that can be invested in new production.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" shows total personal income from 6/90 to 11/91 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NATURAL GAS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); HOME PRICES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



834 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Fannie Mae Study Finds Phony Bids

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23

 BODY:
The Federal National Mortgage Association said today that phony bidding was common in its huge debt market, but the mortgage financing company declined to impose financial penalties on the 53 banks and Wall Street firms that buy its securities.
Releasing the conclusions of a four-month investigation, the Government-created company known as Fannie Mae said that all the institutions that buy its debt had inflated orders and submitted false information about their customers' demands to win a larger share of the market. 
 The company, the main source of credit for the nation's home buyers and corporate America's largest seller of debt, decided to put all of the members of its debt-selling group on probation and begin a series of auditing and record-keeping measures aimed at deterring and monitoring abuses. Any new violations for 12 months could result in suspension from the group.
In October, a smaller sister company, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, imposed similar measures and fined 17 banks and Wall Street firms about $1 million.
Fannie Mae said its investigation had found no evidence that the improper bidding practices had "caused economic harm to home buyers or Fannie Mae," although it said nothing about whether some bidders were hurt by the inflated bids of others.
"We couldn't come up with a justification for money fines based on our analysis of the selling action," said Frank D. Raines, the vice chairman of Fannie Mae, who headed the internal investigation. "The violations took a variety of forms, so it was difficult for us to see a fair fine structure."
The investigations by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Securities and Exchange Commission were prompted by this year's bidding scandal at Salomon Brothers Inc. in the Government securities market. The mortgage financing companies were also motivated to look hard at their markets to ward off any attempts at tighter regulation by the commission. They had a particular interest in preserving their exemption from many securities laws and expensive securities registration requirements.
 
Awareness of Employees
 Mr. Raines said the investigation had found that Fannie Mae employees were generally aware of what he called "salesmanship puffery" among the purchasers of debt, but that it had not found that employees knew that companies had been fabricating customers and sales.
"That occurred in more than a handful of instances," he said.
But the debt purchasers are still not entirely off the hook financially for their reported misconduct. In letters sent to them last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission asked the companies to settle cases stemming from the phony bidding practices.
Most of the firms have not yet responded to the letters, which ask each one to agree to pay an unspecified civil fine, sign an administrative order to "cease and desist" from future violations, and agree to new procedures assuring that violations do not recur.
In a letter sent Friday to the chief executives of the 53 companies, which include all of Wall Street's largest commercial and investment banks, James A. Johnson, the chairman of Fannie Mae, said the new record-keeping and audit program was intended "to protect the integrity of the process."
These are the companies that make up Fannie Mae's debt-seller:
Amsouth Bank; Bank of America; Bank of Boston; Bank One; Bear Stearns; BT Securities; Carroll McEntee & McGintley; Central Bank of the South, and Chemical Securities.
Citicorp Securities Markets; Commerce Bank of Kansas City; Continental Bank; Craigie; Dean Witter Reynolds ; Dillon, Read; Discount Corporation of New York, and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
A. Webster Dougherty; FBS Investment Services; First Boston; First City Bancorporation of Texas; First Fidelity Bank; First Chicago Capital Markets; First Tennessee Bank; Fuji Securities; Goldman, Sachs, and J.J.B. Hilliard.
W.L. Lyons; Kemper Securities Group; Kidder, Peabody; Aubrey G. Lanston; Lehman Government Securities; Marquette Bank Minneapolis; McDonald & Company; Mellon Bank, and Merrill Lynch Government Securities.
Morgan Keegan; J. P. Morgan Securities; Morgan Stanley; National Bank of Commerce; NCNB Capital Markets; Nomura Securities International; Norwest Investment Services; Paine Webber, and Prudential Securities.
Salomon Brothers; Security Pacific National Bank; Shawmut National; Smith Barney, Harris Upham; South Carolina National Bank; Stephens; Trust Company Bank; United Missouri Bank of Kansas City, and Vining-Sparks Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); FRE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; CORPORATE BONDS MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SALES & SELLING (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



835 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Paying the Tab For Retirees

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
A FEW companies have announced that they will take big deductions against profits to comply with a new accounting rule for medical benefits promised to future retirees. Starting in January 1993, all large employers must estimate and report their obligations to future retirees in an effort to charge all costs of current personnel against revenues.
Going a step further, a handful of employers have decided to set aside cash, although this is not required. 
 Benefits consultants say that many executives, recalling their experiences with pensions, were concerned that by allocating cash they might freeze their obligations to retirees, making it difficult or impossible to change their minds later. And some would rather spend the money on their businesses.
The amounts are enormous and hard to predict because among the uncertain factors are medical inflation trends and the future cost of money. The General Motors Corporation, for example, gave itself an $8 billion latitude when it announced that it would write off $16 billion to $24 billion.
For most companies, the bulk of the cost goes to catch up for prior years when retiree medical costs were written off on a pay-as-you-go basis. Under the new rule, these catch-up amounts can be taken in one huge amount or spread out over 20 years. The International Business Machines Corporation has already taken a charge of $2.3 billion; the General Electric Company took $1.8 billion. As a result, they will have much more modest amounts to report in future years.
But most actuaries expect the Chrysler Corporation, which announced an obligation of $4 billion to $6 billion, and G.M. to spread their amounts over the 20 years. Assuming that most employers will take the 20-year path, the General Accounting Office estimated that the total to be reported in 1993 would be at least $412 billion.
Only 91 employers, or 7 percent of the 1,385 responding to a survey by the William M. Mercer consulting firm, said they were "prefunding" their retiree health coverage. Most companies putting money aside said they would get tax advantages by adding to underfunded pension funds or Voluntary Employee Benefit Accounts, or VEBA's, which had been negotiated with labor unions.
But Donald G. McKinnon, a Mercer managing director in Stamford, Conn., said many employers that have enough union members to be interested in the funds "also happen to be companies for whom cash is a scarce commodity."
He said a few companies had considered covering the future costs by buying life insurance, which would build up tax-free interest and pay off when employees died. But there would be "even a heavier cash drain with the insurance than with the VEBA," Mr. McKinnon said.
Bruce Vander Els, a managing consultant in Philadelphia with the A. Foster Higgins consulting firm, noted that many companies could not get tax breaks. They would not qualify if they had fully funded pensions, or lacked enough unionized employees to justify a collectively bargained employee benefit account.
He added that some companies could get tax breaks in nonunion benefit trust funds if they limited their retiree benefit promises to a fixed dollar amount, as opposed to the usual open-ended benefit, and thus eliminated the medical inflation factor. But in a recent survey by Hewitt Associates, a consulting firm, only 3 percent of the 922 employers surveyed said they had switched to the fixed-dollar approach.
In the survey, 78 percent said they intended to make future retirees pay more of their own medical bills. Only 1 percent said they were eliminating all retiree health coverage.
Trying a different tack, the Proctor & Gamble Company got a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service permitting the use of an employee stock ownership plan, or ESOP, financed by tax-deductible contributions, for the purpose of financing future retiree costs. But the I.R.S. later issued a statement intended to discourage other companies from establishing similar ESOP's.
Most of the regional Bell telephone companies, several electric and gas utilities, and a handful of other public companies have indicated that they plan to use voluntary employee benefit accounts.
Howard C. Weizmann, executive director of the Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans, which lobbies in Washington for employers, banks and insurers, said that most members of the group had been reluctant to establish employee benefit trust funds. As a result, he said, members of Congress are not rushing to open a wider tax loophole for these funds.
"The push for change will come if it turns into a victims issue," Mr. Weizmann said, "if there are tons of victims and Congress sees that a lot of people are losing retiree benefits. That isn't happening."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (67%); GEC (LSE) (67%); GE (SWX) (67%); GE (NYSE) (67%); IBMC (BRU) (67%); IBM (NYSE) (67%); IBM (LSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (67%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (67%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FRINGE BENEFITS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPANY REPORTS; RETIREMENT RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); ACCOUNTING (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAX RELIEF (66%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



836 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Tough Choices Ahead For Phillips President

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Wayne W. Allen took over yesterday as the president and chief operating officer of the Phillips Petroleum Company, in the midst of a program to make the world's 28th-largest oil company a little smaller and more profitable.
Mr. Allen, 55 years old, has spent 30 years at Phillips, which is based in Bartlesville, Okla. He was most recently senior vice president for exploration and production. He replaced Glenn A. Cox, who retired. 
 Mr. Allen takes office at the close of a rough year. Phillips's net income for the first three quarters of the year totaled $56 million, down from $232 million for the comparable period last year.
Phillips, with a relatively high debt burden, wants to sell at least $500 million in assets over three years, and has already sold three tankers. It tried earlier this year to sell its Woods Cross refinery in Utah, but took it off the market because the company did not receive any acceptable offers.
The sales program is "going fine," Mr. Allen said in a telephone interview yesterday, despite the fact that "nothing of real high value" has been sold yet. "We want full value for our assets, so if it doesn't meet the hurdle, we withdraw it," he said.
The company is also waiting for a turnaround in natural gas prices. It produced more than a million cubic feet a day in the United States in the last quarter. "We've had quite warm winters, and the U. S. economy has been rather slow," Mr. Allen said. "All of those things are impacting the price."
But the weather will eventually turn colder and the economy will pick up, he added, and "natural gas itself being a premium fuel and very friendly to the environment we'll see a response. Down the road, that will be a good business."
The company also says it is well set up for an increasing emphasis on clean air, because of its position in natural gas and in natural gas liquids, of which it is the leading American producer. Some of those liquids are useful in making reformulated gasoline, Mr. Allen said.
The new president said he was determined to pare the headquarters staff, which now totals more than 5,000. Earlier this year, Phillips said it would cut 140 headquarters jobs.
Phillips's strategy has drawn praise from analysts.
"They're working hard to improve their financial condition, and they're making progress," said Eugene L. Nowak of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Of the slow asset sales, he said: "I think Phillips, like a lot of other people, is trying to avoid fire sales. They're not in a position where they're forced to sell anything, so I think they're calling their shots."
Mr. Allen, a petroleum engineer, is a graduate of Oklahoma State University, with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and master's in industrial engineering. He has served as Phillips's regional manager in Britain and the Ivory Coast.
In 1982, he received the National Order of the Republic of the Ivory Coast, for his work in developing the oil resources there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wayne W. Allen; Phillips Petroleum Company (Phillips Petroleum Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); SALES & SELLING (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (65%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, WAYNE W W ALLEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



837 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Which Students Are Worst At Science?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
EVERY few years, a new study rolls out announcing once again that American students know less math and science than even students in the poorest countries. And every time, the reports result in a national orgy of self-flagellation and cries for new rounds of reform in American schools.
The latest comparison, conducted by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N.J., and involving 20 countries, will be reported on Feb. 3. The betting is that the United States will, as always, rank at or near the bottom. 
 But this time, a growing and vocal collection of revisionists has begun arguing that the comparisons are invalid. The entire United States population, they contend, is consistently being compared with other countries' elites. No wonder Americans are found wanting.
These critics stress that they in no way mean they find nothing to improve in American schools. But, they say, it is disingenuous to use international comparisons to whip up the population to demand school reforms.
"The rankings of nations in international test comparisons are meaningless," said Dr. Iris Rotberg, a program administrator at the National Science Foundation who is on leave to work as a senior scientist at the RAND Corporation's Institute on Education and Training in Washington.
Dr. Harold Hodgkinson, the director of the Center for Demographic Policy in Washington and a former director of the National Institute of Education, said that the tests were flawed and not very helpful.
Dr. Daryl Chubin, a senior associate at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment in Washington, said, "The international comparisons have been over-interpreted.
"In this country and in particular in this era of educational ferment, anyone who has new numbers will use them to champion an argument," he added. "We're talking about the rhetorical use of rank numbers. In the absence of good data, you get along with whatever you can."
Proponents of the tests argue that the comparisons are useful benchmarks and that it would be a mistake to throw away discomforting findings because of methodological obstacles.
Archie Lapointe, the director of assessment at the Educational Testing Service, said that the criticisms have "a kernel of truth." But, he said, the data show what sort of achievement is possible, albeit often among the very best, selected students, and give Americans goals to aim for. And the elite students, Mr. Lapointe added, "are those with whom we will compete in the future."
In response to its critics, Mr. Lapointe said, the Educational Testing Service is being "much more careful about how we report the data." For example in the forthcoming report it will explicitly describe the different student populations in the body of the text rather than in footnotes and appendices, as was done previously. "Every time we say Israel, we will say, in parentheses, Hebrew schools," he said, to convey to readers that most Arab students were not included.
Dr. Diane Ravitch, Assistant Secretary of Education for Educational Research and Improvement, warned that it was dangerous to dismiss the international comparisons. "None of the assessments are perfect, that's true," she said, but that is no excuse for disregarding them. Every time an assessment is done, she said, "U.S. students have placed at or near the bottom."
"The consistency is so strong that you cannot ultimately ignore it and say it means nothing," she added. "When you come up with the same results time and time again, you have to say there's something there."
Dr. Harold Stevenson, a psychology professor at the University of Michigan, agreed. "One of the things that is convincing is that there have been so many studies with different populations, different cities, different tests and they consistently came out in the same direction," he said. Dr. Stevenson, who conducts a study comparing children's math and science achievement in selected cities in the United States, China and Japan, added that he finds that "U.S. children are behind as early as the first grade."
His view was supported by Albert Shanker, the president of the American Federation of Teachers. "It would be appropriate to raise this question if we had reason to believe that American students are doing well and all of a sudden international comparisons come along and say we are at the bottom," he said. "But I think it's silly to try to shoot holes in international comparisons when there is a huge body of evidence that we are doing terribly."
Among the recent implicit and explicit uses of international comparisons are President Bush's stipulation, as an educational goal, that the United States should rise to first place in the math and science comparisons by the year 2000. A 1989 report calling for reforms in mathematics education, put out by the National Reseach Council, stated: "Children can succeed in mathematics. Many do in other countries and some do so in this country."
Critics say that the international tests of mathematics and science achievement have all suffered from what Dr. Hodgkinson called the "major problem." By high school, most countries have already dropped the poorer performers from their schools. American high school students thereby end up being compared with other countries' select few.
"If you are comparing 16-year-olds you are going to compare the top 70 to 80 percent of Americans with maybe the top 30 percent in European countries," Dr. Hodgkinson said. "If a nation has only the top 5 percent in the comparison, it will do a lot better than any other nation's top 70 percent."
 
Some Schools Are Excluded
 There is an uneven playing field even when younger groups are compared, Dr. Hodgkinson noted. He said that many countries vie for top honors in these international comparisons by purposely excluding schools or districts or groups of students who they know will pull their scores down. "In many countries, to look good is very good for international prestige," he said. "Some restrict the students taking the test to elite schools."
Dr. Harold Howe, a senior lecturer emeritus at Harvard University who was the United States Commissioner of Education from 1965 to 1968, agreed. "Every country is highly motivated to make themselves look as good as possible," he said. "It is very hard in an international population where you don't control the detailed process of selecting the sample and administering the test to be sure that the process is watertight."
Mr. Shanker argued, however, that many tests of younger students do reflect representative samples of students in different countries.
Dr. Rotberg said that different countries varied substantially in the way that mathematics and science are taught. "In European countries, students who will go on to universities specialize right away," she said. They study mathematics and science intensively in high school rather than taking a broad range of courses. "This means there is a relatively small group of students and a very demanding curriculum," she said. "That will show up on test scores."
Karel van Wolferen, the author of "The Enigma of Japanese Power," said it should be no surprise that Japanese students do well on standardized tests. Only a small proportion who pass qualifying tests go on to the top high schools, where they spend their time training for college entrance exams, he said. Mr. von Wolferen, who recently established the Institute for Independent Japanese Studies in Washington, said that Japanese students "are educated -- or trained, I would hardly call it education -- to pass exams."
 
Memories of Sputnik
 The international comparisons began in the 1960's, when Americans had Sputnik fresh in their minds and were afraid they would lose the space race to the Soviet Union. They were conducted by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement, a group based in the Netherlands. These tests, Dr. Rotberg pointed out, compared the 80 percent of Americans who attended high school with 9 percent of West Germans, 13 percent of students in the Netherlands and 45 percent in Sweden who attended the highly academic and selective final years of high school in the 1960's. "It is not surprising that U.S. students did not do well in these comparisons," she said.
More recent comparisons by the international association have similar drawbacks, Dr. Rotberg said. For example, she said, in a 1987 report, Japan ranked first among 20 countries in eighth-grade mathematics achievement and Hong Kong ranked in the middle of the various countries assessed. But, she said, by 12th grade, when 15 countries are compared, Hong Kong ranked first.
The reason, Dr. Rotberg proposes, is not so complicated: by 12th grade, Hong Kong has eliminated all but 3 percent of its students from taking mathematics, while in Japan, 12 percent of students take mathematics in 12th grade. So, Dr. Rotberg said, Hong Kong's elite is being compared with broader ranges of students in other countries, making its pre-eminence inevitable.
Some American scientists say they have long been suspicious of international comparisons because the results belie their own observations. Dr. Ponzy Lu, a chemist at the University of Pennsylvania who went to high school in England and did postdoctoral work in Germany, said that he saw no evidence of American inferiority in science when he assessed students who study under him.
Foreign students have to meet much higher standards than Americans to enter American graduate schools, he said. At the University of Pennsylvania, Americans who score at the 50th percentile on their Graduate Record Exams are usually admitted, while foreign students must have scores above the 90th percentile, Dr. Lu said. But even so, the foreign students range from "absolutely awful to fantastically good," which means, Dr. Lu said, that "the standardized test scores don't mean much."
 
Emphasizing the Basics
 Dr. Rotberg agreed and cautioned that Americans' love of testing can result in a misplaced emphasis in teaching information that is easy to test in multiple-choice exams.
"I think that focusing on tests will make it much more difficult to make changes that need to be made," Dr. Rotberg said. In particular, she advocated placing more emphasis on teaching students basic concepts of science, scientific methodology, how to understand the science behind major issues in public policy -- like arguments over global warming -- and how to do independent research.
Dr. Hodgkinson said the emphasis on international comparisons masked the fact that many American schools were in fact doing a good job. The top 10 percent of American students are scoring 14 points higher on the Scholastic Aptitude Tests than they were 10 years ago, he said. There has been no decline in Graduate Record Examination scores, he said, adding that "if high schools are doing so miserably, you would hardly expect colleges to recoup that."
Dr. Howe expressed concern at the assumption often made by politicians and educators that if test scores are low, then the problem is in the schools and can be fixed by yet another round of curriculum reform or infusion of money.
Low test scores, "are not just a measure of schools," he said. "They are a measure of the entire society. The environment in the home and the kinds of social and medical services available to kids are extremely important in affecting the kinds of lives these children are able to lead and the kinds of scores they get.
"The main problem with the school reform movement in the United States is that we have the basic assumption that we can fix the schools so the schools can fix the kids, no matter what is wrong with the family and the community."

GRAPHIC: Table: "2 Comparisons and Caveats - Math Proficiency" shows average scores for 13-year-olds whot ook International Assessment of Educational Progress test in 1988. (Source: Educational Testing Service) (pg. C6)
 
Diagram: "2 Comparisons and Caveats"
 
Critics of International comparisons that find American high school students far behind in science and math tests say a large majority of American students are tested, while testing of their foreign counterparts frequently includes only elite students. (Source: Iris Rothberg) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (57%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; TESTS AND TESTING; MATHEMATICS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



838 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: A Strong Vote for One China

 BODY:
The most democratic vote for a legislature ever held in China took place Saturday -- in Taiwan. With its recent gains in economic development and political liberalization, Taiwan deserves serious attention in Washington. But as the vote itself makes clear, that attention is best based on the premise of eventual reunification between Taiwan and the mainland.
The election's big winner was the Nationalist Party, or Kuomintang, which has ruled Taiwan since the island was recovered from Japan. The Kuomintang had little interest in democracy during its half-century of domination by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. But the Generalissimo's son, Chiang Ching-kuo, began a process of liberalization that his successor, President Lee Teng-hui, has accelerated. 
 President Lee's policies, long resisted by the Kuomintang's reactionary old guard, were vindicated by Saturday's results. The Kuomintang won more than 70 percent of the vote. That margin testifies to public support for the Kuomintang's "One China" doctrine, holding that eventual reunification with the mainland is inevitable and that Taiwan's independence is inconceivable. The main opposition party, the Democratic Progressives, openly backed independence, and lost support.
Washington has publicly ignored Taiwan since it normalized relations with Beijing in the 1970's, as if to compensate for its foolish 25-year boycott of the mainland regime. Taiwan, home to more than 20 million Chinese and one of Asia's most successful economies, is too big to ignore.
It deserves U.S. support for its application to join, without prejudice to China, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. And it deserves America's sympathy in the event of future bullying from Beijing, which still insists on its right to impose unification by military force.
Taiwan's voters support One China, democratically reunited. Americans can applaud, and morally support, that choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN; CHINA TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); 

PERSON: CHIANG KAI-SHEK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



839 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Economical Wetlands Plan Along Hudson Is Timely Again

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A panel of scientists appointed by the National Research Council recommends that "the United States undertake an ambitious long-term program of ecological restoration" (news article, Dec. 12). Such a restoration project has been proposed right in New York City, along the Hudson River from 42d Street to Battery Park City. 
This section of Manhattan, to the west of the new Route 9A to be built in place of West Street, is publicly owned land whose fate is as yet undetermined. A lumbering West Side waterfront panel finally decided in November 1990 that the area should have an elaborate four-mile "esplanade," with plenty of room for commercial development, but the trouble was that the price tag was a minimum of $500 million (1990 prices). Since neither the state nor the city Correction
Because of an editing error, a letter on Dec. 16 by Allen Bromberger misstated that corporations will now have to pay tax on donations to nonprofit organizations. The nonprofit groups will have to pay the tax.
has money like that, nor is likely to for a long time to come, the plan was quietly shelved.
All along, a citizens group called the Wetlands Restoration Project urged an entirely different, much more beautiful and far less costly scheme: the transformation of that area into a tidal wetlands much as it would have been when Henry Hudson saw it 400 years ago. By letting nature do most of the work and all of the maintenance, such a project could no doubt be done for about $40 million -- which is just about half the money due to be paid the local governments by Washington if the land is suitably "scenic," as a lush and verdant wetlands certainly would be.
Now, as the National Research Council report makes clear, is the time to revive this wetlands project and get state and local officials actively working for its completion. As the scientists forcefully argued, this should be "a high priority task" for our city.
 
KIRKPATRICK SALE
New York, Dec. 12, 1991
 
The writer is an adviser to the Wetlands Restoration Project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; HUDSON RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WETLANDS WETLANDS (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAND RECLAMATION (90%); WATER QUALITY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



840 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Airlines, Let's Face It, Have Gone Into Tailspin

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Flights of Non-fancy" (editorial, Dec. 9), on airline deregulation, is myopic. We economists check the patient -- the airline industry -- almost continuously, and declare him trim and active. We conclude he must be in good health. But take a step backward and look at the larger picture. 
 Economists supported airline deregulation because the industry seemed to have none of the characteristics requiring regulation. There was no evidence of cost advantages for big companies over small ones. We thought that it would be as easy for new companies to enter markets as for others to exit. There seemed every reason to expect competition to drive airlines to provide what customers wanted while they strove to minimize costs. The airlines seemed in principle no different from bakeries or variety stores.
We were wrong. After a flurry of innovation -- introduction of the hub and spoke system, intensive use of peripheral airports, no-frills service and entry of small new competitors -- unexpected patterns started to emerge. Through control of reservations systems, in which size conveys substantial advantages, through frequent-flier kickbacks, which skim off the profitable business traveler, and through monopolistic domination of hubs, which offer a limited supply of takeoff and landing slots, big airlines were able to absorb or destroy most of their small competitors and some giant rivals. The number of airlines has shrunk since the mid-1980's.
Yet the economist continues to declare the patient well simply because the pulse beats, even when almost every piece of the earlier prognosis has proved wrong. There is every reason to doubt that the airline industry is in a steady state that can be sustained; it continues to sink. Eastern and Pan American have died, leaving unfunded pension commitments that the taxpayer probably will be forced to pick up. Other major carriers stagger along with negative profit and negative net worth.
The evidence points to a future of a small oligopoly of airlines. Through domination of hubs and reservation systems (and with implicit collusion), they will be able to raise prices not just to the level needed to make a normal rate of return, but higher.
Why don't we admit that deregulation is not working as we thought it would? Let us deliberately put into place the elements of a new regulatory system: further regulation of reservation systems, price or quantity limits to monopolistic practices at hubs, price or quantity limits to scheduling during peak-load hours, the elimination of kickback schemes.
Surely, auctions of takeoff and landing slots, slot pricing based on local concentration of ownership or other schemes are likely to be preferable to the fare and route regulation that we had formerly. Unless economists take the initiative in promoting the new regulatory system, we will have no right to complain when the prize patient enters political intensive care.
 
BERNARD WASOW
Assoc. Professor of Economics
New York University
New York, Dec. 12, 1991

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AIRLINES (93%); DEREGULATION (92%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (76%); CARTELS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: WASOW, BERNARD CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



841 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Airlines, Let's Face It, Have Gone Into Tailspin;
Free Market Zealots

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was disappointed by your Dec. 9 editorial proclaiming airline deregulation a success. Deregulation has produced in the United States: 
 * Five major airlines, 25 percent of the national fleet capacity, are in bankruptcy, including the two to which deregulation gave birth -- America West and Midway (Midway ceased operations this year, along with Eastern and Pan American).
* After 200 bankruptcies and 50 mergers, we now fly the oldest and most repainted fleet of aircraft in the developed world.
* The market share of the four largest airlines has grown by 14 percent in five years, to two-thirds -- a rate of concentration unparalleled in American business history.
* More than 50,000 airline employees have lost their jobs since Jan. 1.
* All the United States passenger airlines together are now worth less than Japan Air Lines individually.
Deregulation was supposed to produce more competition. But under deregulation, 13 major railroads folded into 7; 2 bus lines became 1, and two-thirds of the general freight trucking companies disappeared with no significant new entry.
From the late 1970's, Congress and the White House deregulated a host of industries. Free-market economists assured us that if we amputated the dead hand of regulation and sewed on Adam Smith's invisible hands, we would prosper in nearly textbook levels of perfect competition. Not since the Bolshevik Revolution has the discipline of economics embraced an ideology with such passion.
At first, airline deregulation looked like a masterpiece of public policy. Airlines lowered fares, tapping the elasticities of demand and filling seats that otherwise would have flown empty, thereby enjoying record profitability. Air Florida and People Express emerged, to drive first prices, and then themselves, through the floor. But now all the major new airlines are dead, or nearly so.
The implicit thesis of the theology of laissez-faire is that unconstrained human greed will produce a better society. Under the stars and stripes of the free market, corporate raiders were freed to devour healthy companies and suck them dry of capital, leaving them wounded, unable to produce a new product or compete better in a global marketplace.
Savings and loan deregulation will cost every taxpayer $5,000, minimum. Local telephone rates have risen sharply. Yet free-market economists insist consumers save billions.
Your editorial is not only misguided but also misleading. You ignore the prederegulation trend of declining fares and increased traffic. Yes, fuel and inflation-adjusted air fares are lower than in 1978. They fell every decade under regulation as well, and were falling at a faster rate before deregulation. Yes, more travelers are flying than ever before. That is also true every year since 1938.
The world is rightly rejecting the socialist alternative. But the ravages of too free a market should be as manifest. Take for example the illicit sale of narcotics, sex and gambling, markets tenaciously driving toward freedom. Only one who has a theological libertarian passion for free markets would prefer the anarchy created by the total absence of government.
 
PAUL STEPHEN DEMPSEY
Prof. of Law, University of Denver
Denver, Dec. 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: 9201 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (98%); AIRLINES (96%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); AIR FARES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TRENDS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); TELEPHONE RATES (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); TRUCKING (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (52%); GAMING (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: DEMPSEY, PAUL STEPHEN (PROF) ADAM SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



842 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Rate Cuts Push Dow Over 3,000

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stock prices leaped yesterday in what traders saw as a continued reaction to Friday's sharp cut in the discount rate and, hard on its heels, a cut in many banks' prime lending rates. The Dow Jones industrial average surged past the 3,000 barrier for the first time in more than a month to 3,022.58, up 88.10 points, or 3 percent.
The percentage gain was the best since Aug. 21, when stock prices rebounded after the failed coup in the Soviet Union, with the Dow also rising 88.10, to 3,001.79. 
 Trading was surprisingly heavy for a day that many expected to be a slow pre-Christmas session, with volume on the New York Stock Exchange hitting 229.2 million shares. That compared with more hectic trading on Friday, when 318.4 million shares changed owners on a day when various options contracts expired.
 
Supported by Credit Markets
 A firm bond market along with lower interest rates gave stocks early support. Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose and interest rates continued to fall. [Page D11.]
The dollar also tumbled further in reaction to the widening interest-rate gap between the United States and Europe.
The breadth of the market was overwhelmingly on the buy side as advancing issues on the Big Board outnumbered declining ones by more than 3 to 1, with gainers totaling 1,410.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks also had a big day, gaining 9.78 to finish at 396.82. The Big Board composite index rose 5, to 218.13, and the American Stock Exchange composite added 3.71 to end at 370.93.
Trading on Nasdaq took the composite index 8.14 points higher, to 543.90, while the Russell 2,000 index, a barometer of small stocks, gained 1.83 to close at 177.90.
 
Limit on Program Trades
 According to exchange rules, program trading was restricted in the afternoon when the Dow rose 50 points. Other factors may also have been at work. David Chao, the head trader in New York for County NatWest Securities, noted that for investors who had sold stock short, or sold borrowed stock in the hope of replacing it with stock bought later at a lower price, yesterday was the last day to buy to take a loss this year for tax purposes.
A gain or loss is registered on the settlement date, which is five business days after the transaction.
Traders said the market had little reaction to the November personal income and consumption spending data released earlier in the day by the Commerce Department.
Analysts at MMS International said the weaker-than-expected income and stronger-than-expected consumption would not change the market's perception of the economy.
The most-sought-after shares were the cyclical stocks and the utilities, with transportation issues up handily, Mr. Chao said.
The combination of falling interest rates, a strong bond market and weak overseas markets encouraged investors, traders said.
Elsewhere in the market, the share price of Summcorp common stock rose 4 1/2, to 35, in over-the-counter trading, after NBD Bancorp said it had reached an agreement to merge with Summcorp. The deal is valued at $323 million and calls for NBD to exchange 0.9 share of its common for each Summcorp share.
According to traders, the share price of Telefonaktiebolaget L. M. Ericsson, a worldwide telecommunications company that had been down in recent months, surged in heavy American trading. It said it would sign an initial contract next year to develop and install a cellular mobile system in metropolitan Tokyo. Last week, the company said it planned to cut its overall costs by 15 percent in 1992, which helped the stock. It gained 2 points, to 18 3/8.
American Cyanamid, after saying on Friday that it would restructure its global chemical businesses by combining them in a new corporate entity, advanced 2 1/4, to 62 1/2. William Young, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, repeated the firm's strongest "buy" rating. Traders said he thought the chemicals unit would eventually be spun off to shareholders.
Orion Pictures edged up 3/8, to 2 1/4, on 3.1 million shares. Metromedia and New Line Cinema said they had tentatively agreed to propose a reorganization plan for Orion, which sought Federal bankruptcy protection several weeks ago.
Syntex rose 4 1/4, to 46 7/8, after the company announced it had received clearance from the Food and Drug Administration to market Toradol tablets for treating pain. The injectable form was approved in May 1990. The company said the new oral medication is expected to be widely available in pharmacies in March 1992.
On a strong "buy" rating by David Webber of Alex. Brown & Sons, traders said, Synergen rose 2 7/8, to 59 1/8. Mr. Webber raised his earnings estimates for the company.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 1991, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about Monday's stock market activity referred incorrectly to the taxation of stock market profits and losses. Monday was the final day for an investor who had shorted a stock to repurchase it for the purpose of claiming a loss in 1991; other transactions that create a gain or loss may be made through Dec. 31.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRIME RATES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONSUMPTION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); COUPS (56%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991



843 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Ever So Cautiously, Skirts Creep Down

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
In testing longer skirts for the spring season, designers managed to avoid a possible disaster. Their approach was low-keyed, and calf-length skirts made up no more than 10 percent of most collections.
Twenty years ago, when the mini abruptly gave ground to the midi or calf-length skirt, the uproar was ferocious. Women refused to give up the freedom that above-the-knee skirts provided. They said the longer skirts were dowdy and old-looking. They insisted that designers were dictating to them and they refused to go along. 
 The protests were far stronger in this country than in Europe, where women have traditionally been far more in thrall to fashion than Americans. In the short run, women made their point by avoiding skirts of any length. Thus, the pants era was ushered in, dominating fashion for the next few years. Gradually, however, clothes became more formal, midi skirts won acceptance and the avant-garde slipped into ankle lengths.
Now, short skirts have had a five-year run, and many designers believe it is time for a change. But they are not rushing blindly into the new regime; they are proceeding with extreme caution.
 
Test Ground for Long Skirts
 Spring is not the best time for a big change in fashion, most designers believe, especially in a shaky economic period when customers are not in a mood to buy. So the spring collections were treated as a test ground to determine what kind of long skirts were viable. Some designers ignored the chance -- they kept everything short.
Still, there is a feeling that a change is due. And the majority of collections did offer a variety of longer styles as designers sought a style that was seductive, practical and esthetic.
Some designers tried a middle ground, offering long, full skirts that buttoned over shorts or minis. It was a form of hedging or having your cake and eating it too. Others emphasized seductiveness by splitting long, slender skirts up the side, front or even back to show plenty of leg, as high as the thigh. The reasoning for this variation is that the skinny, split skirt that provides a glimpse of leg is even more provocative than the brief skirt that conceals practically nothing. This view must be the most prevalent because this is the type of longer skirt that is seen most frequently.
Another approach is the uneven hemline that slants from above the knees to below them, the degree of dip varying with the style. Designers feel this, too, has a provocative look. So do thin, almost see-through fabrics that show the legs in a shadowy way.
Some of the most successful styles, however, do not pursue the seductive angle too aggressively. They simply make full skirts that end around mid-calf level, that look easy to move in and do not clutch the body. When they are successful, they look comfortable, relaxed and beyond reproach.
While their steps are tentative now, designers will pursue the grail of a length change more aggressively in their fall collections. The climate will be more appropriate. Who can resist the argument that long skirts will keep you warm? Women may be more receptive to change. Still, the mini will not disappear. Designers will do their best to keep a balance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isaac Mizrahi splits a long, narrow skirt up the back to create a sexy look.; A filmy full skirt by Calvin Klein is slit at the front and worn with a casual open-neck knitted pullover.; Bob Mackie's full patchwork skirt has a 1950's look.; A shirtdress by Carolina Herrera has a pleated skirt that buttons over a miniskirt.; A scoop-neck sweater is belted over a high-slit sheer plaid skirt by Michael Kors.; A striped knitted dress with a halter neck by Bill Blass can be worn to lunch or parties. (Photographs by Kim Garnick/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, BERNADINE

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1992



844 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Declines Further; Price of Gold Rises Slightly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled further yesterday in reaction to the widening interest rate gap between the United States and Europe, but a late rally on Wall Street helped the currency partly recover.
Gold prices rose slightly. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, bullion for current delivery fetched $359.30 an ounce, up 70 cents from Friday. At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold fetched $359.50 late in the day, up $1 from Friday. 
 Foreign-exchange traders said dollar sellers battered the currency through much of the day, accelerating the slide of late last week that resulted from higher interest rates in Germany and falling rates in the United States.
On Thursday, Germany's central bank raised key rates in a move to stem inflation. On Friday, the Federal Reserve announced a big cut in its lending rate to banks to stimulate the economy.
Both moves caught many currency-market strategists unprepared. Lower interest rates in the United States make the dollar worth less, and higher rates in Germany make the mark more valuable.
"A lot of people got the one-two whammy last week," said Zlatko Glamuzina, senior dealer at the New York branch of Banco di Sicilia. "Whoever had a long dollar position paid the piper the second time around in one week. That's a big no-no."
But the dollar's slide was eased late yesterday afternoon by a powerful rally on Wall Street.
"The late action in the stock market pulled the dollar out of its depths," said Jerry Egan, a trader at the Bank of Boston's foreign exchange desk.
In Tokyo, markets were closed for the Emperor's birthday. In London, the dollar fetched 126.50 yen, well below Tokyo's late Friday rate of 128.32 yen. Later in New York, the dollar fetched 126.65 yen, down from 127.55 yen Friday but higher than an intraday low of 126.20 yen, a level not seen since October 1990.
The dollar fell to 1.5135 German marks in Europe, down from 1.5335 late Friday. In New York, the dollar fetched 1.5130 marks, down from 1.5340 late Friday but above its intraday low of 1.5062 marks, a level not seen since last February.
Gold rose in London to $359.40 a troy ounce, from $358.25 late Friday. In Zurich, gold rose to $359.50, from $358 late Friday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $1.84 an ounce to close at $359.77.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (91%); HONG KONG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); JAPAN (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (91%); HONG KONG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1992



845 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Colleges Wary of Easing Curbs on South Africa

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 22

 BODY:
Not many years removed from the days when students were erecting mock shanty towns and staging protests against apartheid, a handful of universities and colleges are now taking tentative steps toward liberalizing their policies banning the investment of endowment funds in companies doing business with South Africa.
But, like the process of dismantling white rule in that country, campus officials and shareholder groups are moving slowly and cuatiously to loosen the restrictions. 
 "Nobody wants to be the first," said Jean Mayer, president of Tufts University, who has emerged as the most vocal supporter of reinvestment as a prod to keep negotiations for a new government going forward. A convention of political parties to draw up plans for an interim government and a new constitution opened Friday in Johannesburg.
"Everybody is slow because they are afraid of giving their students the wrong message," added Mr. Mayer, who supported Tufts's decision in 1989 to divest completely. "In particular, they are interested in making sure their black students don't think it's a reversal of their commitment to civil rights."
Indeed, those who attended a meeting in October of 29 colleges and universities interested in tracking South African developments declined to identify which members had raised their hands in an informal poll to see which institutions were actively reconsidering divestment.
Divestment policies were established after much deliberation, and any changes "will be done in a long, careful, thoughtful fashion," said Laurel Harvey, chairwoman of the steering committee for the Colleges and Universities Research Consortium on South Africa. "This is not something universities are going to respond to with a knee-jerk reaction."
But Mr. Mayer urges quick action, arguing that violence provoked by unemployment levels exceeding 30 percent is far more threatening to the South African negotiations than the reversal of divestment policies. "Unless there is reinvestment soon, then all the political progress is going to be wiped out," he said.
Mr. Mayer said he changed his mind this year when racist laws were erased from South Africa's constitution. "The idea wasn't that we were going to divest until there was a perfect democracy," he said.
In another case where divestment is being questioned, the board of regents at the University of Wisconsin has asked the State Attorney General to review a state ruling prohibiting investment in companies with ties to South Africa. But the regents' motives are more legal than political, according to Daniel Gelatt, chairman of the board's business and finance committee.
The Bush Administration's decision to lift economic sanctions this summer happened to coincide with the university's regular process of bidding for the services of investment advisers, said Mr. Gelatt, so the question of whether the original ruling was still justified was raised.
"My impression is that the changes in the apartheid laws have reduced the implicit employment discrimination" that was the basis for the state's divestment law, he said. The regents' action is "as much an issue of control over our investments as it's an issue about South Africa," he added.
But Donna E. Shalala, the university's chancellor, said she would oppose any reversal of the policy while negotiations on a new government are under way.
"I think it's too early," she said. "There's not 'one person one vote' in South Africa. Blacks are still disenfranchised in South Africa, and that was the whole point of divestment."
Just how much of an economic lift colleges and universities would give South Africa by reversing divestment is questionable, said D. Reid Weedon Jr., senior vice president of Arthur D. Little in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Weedon heads a program that for 15 years has monitored the behavior of American companies in South Africa for institutional investors with selective divestment policies.
"At this stage of the game it doesn't make all that much difference because the companies that have stayed have hung in there even though a lot of universities have sold their shares," Mr. Weedon said. Of more importance, he added, will be the decisions of 143 state, city and county governments that restrict their business and investment ties with South Africa.
Several colleges and universities have scheduled meetings to discuss re-evaluations of their investment policies. And university officials on both sides of the issue said they were less fearful of causing new student protests than they were of negatively influencing the ongoing talks in South Africa.
"I don't think there is the emotional fervor on campuses about South Africa that there was four or five years ago, but I may be wrong," Mr. Mayer said.
Indeed, some students at Tufts are planning protests and petition drives early next year before a meeting on the issue by university trustees.
There is also agreement that the time may be nearing when the subject of reversing divestment might be discussed freely.
"There's a clear sense that things are happening in South Africa," Ms. Harvey said, "and it's only a question of time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



846 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: In Uncertain Times, College Students See a Bleak Future After Graduation

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
Once they stood as splendid sanctuaries, with Gothic towers and heavy mantles of tradition that conveyed a soothing stability. But America's college campuses have come to bear the same fault lines as American society, and in uncertain times like these even self-possessed students like Michael Idinopulos, a philosopher-in-training at the University of Chicago, feel shaken.
There is a sense among students that they have no room to make mistakes, said Mr. Idinopulos, a senior from Cincinnati who intends to study the complex philosophy of mathematics in graduate school, if he gets there. 
 "If we're not the best," he said, "we don't get the jobs. If we sleep with the wrong person, we end up with AIDS. If we don't come up with a financially sound policy for the future of this country, we'll suffer the consequences."
In interviews with more than 65 students at colleges throughout the Middle West, whose students mirror the majority on campus, a powerful sense emerged that instead of feeling privileged, many of today's college students feel boxed in by anxieties and limitations.
Their days are filled with the same struggle, triumph and horseplay as have always characterized students' lives, and the old pressures of grades and romance remain strong. But the campuses have become complicated by tough issues like AIDS, acquaintance rape, racism, alcoholism and other real-world troubles that make some college newspapers read like big-city tabloids.
Such anxieties are reflected in many aspects of the way today's students live and study. But most striking is how many students, worried about the economy, said they did not expect to live as well as the previous generation.
"My parents got married and bought a little house when my dad was still a student," said Lida Poletz, a senior majoring in journalism and Russian at the University of Minnesota. "I'm not going to be able to do that."
It is not preoccupation with wealth so much as worry about landing a job, any job, that tends to be an overriding concern. Hard times influence what and how these students study more than do intellectual passion or political commitment. Even decisions to help volunteer organizations sometimes are made with an eye toward how such activities would perk up a dull resume.
Many students first focused on their post-college lives soon after they entered college. John Kramarczuk, a junior at the University of Minnesota who is majoring in history, has long planned to teach high school. Tiffany Swanson, an international studies major in her junior year at Bradley University in Peoria, Ill., has made up her mind to become a defense contractor.
Dana Owens, a senior at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, first thought he wanted to be a social worker. But he switched to journalism and wants to be a television news announcer so he can accurately represent news about minorities that he said is often misinterpreted.
"I just want to give a positive black perspective to some of the news," said Mr. Owens, who next June will be the first in his family to graduate from college.
Meeting expecations so shapes their lives that some students see college as an obligation rather than an opportunity. Christina Damas of Mahomet, Ill., just outside Champaign, is a senior English education major at Illinois State University. To help pay bills she works as an assistant in a dormitory on the campus at Normal, about 40 miles east of Peoria, enabling her to see first hand how much pressure there is for students to do well, look right and be first.
Recently, she said, there has been a problem in the dorm with students vomiting in bags and throwing them down the garbage chutes. She believes it is not from excessive drinking, but rather a sign of eating disorders that come with intense anxieties about appearance, especially among young women.
"We must be a depressed society for someone to do that," she said.
Few students said they read newspapers regularly or venture into literature beyond course requirements. When they bought a book that was not required for class, it tended to be something simple: the comic characters Calvin & Hobbes top many a campus bookstore's bestseller list. Generally, the students' view of the world comes through television. The TV also provides much of their entertainment, from afternoon soap operas to home video games that have become a standard study break.
Weekends are still reserved for parties, especially at schools where the fraternity system is strong like Bradley University. Students there say the weekend begins on Thursday night, and parties consist of hundreds of people crowding into a fraternity house, where they stand shoulder-to-shoulder, plastic cups of beer sloshing over expensive sweaters.
 
Of Parties Past
 Michael Sperling, a senior from Northbrook, Ill., was president of his fraternity, Alpha Epsilon, last year. He said that before kegs were banned, some fraternity on campus would have a 10-keg party at least once a week and it was not unusual to find the upstairs rooms at a fraternity house filled with people smoking marijuana. He said about a third of the guys at a party would have sex with a woman before the night ended.
Tricia Hackett, a political science major from Chillicothe, Ill., said she got drunk at fraternity parties in her first two years at Bradley and would allow a guy to walk her back to her room. Now that she is a junior, she considers herself lucky that she did not get into real trouble then. "A guy who normally is a pretty nice guy," she said, "at 2 in the morning after 15 or 20 beers turns into a different animal."
Studies show college students to be firm middle-of-the roaders in politics and social views, but idealism is not dead on campus. Many volunteer to help the needy, and it is not unusual to meet someone like Julia McCullough, a nursing major at Bradley, who recently spent a night huddled under a blanket in front of Bradley Hall to raise money for the homeless.
But most students interviewed had never attended or participated in a political protest, on campus or off. Such mass professions of allegiance to an idea are out of sync with the narrow focus these students take.
"We're living in difficult, confusing times," said Michael Newirth, a senior English major who a D.J. at the University of Chicago's radio station, WHPK. Turning down the studio speakers on which the group My Dad is Dead was sounding off, he added, "I still personally believe in the abstract concepts of America that I was raised with but the events of the last few years have made that difficult."
Mr. Newirth, from Port Washington, L.I., openly expresses his tastes in music at the station and hopes to be a writer of short stories later in life. Both activities invite forwardness, but he said he has not participated in protests or demonstrations in his four years at college because he doesn't think he has any answers.
"I'm only one individual; I feel uncomfortable suggesting what others should think," he said.
 
Thinking About the Economy
 Such self-restraint may seem excessive, especially in light of past campus ferment, but students now acutely feel the uncertainties of contemporary life. Foremost among them are the doubts raised by an out-of-gas economy in which the students' degrees appear to have little worth.
"I work part time in my parents' bar and what I hear mostly from the guys there is that they think college and a lot of education is just a waste of time," said Walley Wargolet Jr., a business management major from Milwaukee who is a senior at the University of Wisconsin, Parkside, in Kenosha. "They see this country as filled with thinkers and not doers."
Annette Hayes of Inkster, Mich., a finance major at Wilberforce University, a historically black university in Wilberforce, Ohio, said: "I get worried about it especially when I see white people, with white-collar positions, losing their jobs. I look at myself and think, 'What chance do I have?' "
As always, some students possess confidence and hope that cannot be diminished by headlines. That is the case for some at the counterculture holdout of Antioch College, in Yellow Springs, Ohio, where women are womyn, freshmen are first-year students and the American flag cannot be flown, by student consensus, from September till May.
"I'm not as scared about the economy contracting as I am about the contraction I see in society," said Mark Swanholm, a fourth-year student from Stillwell, Kan., majoring in international communications. "David Duke is much more of a threat to me than not being able to earn $50,000 a year."
Jon Rodriguez, a second year communications major from San Francisco, countered, "Yeah, but if you have the money, you have more say in changing political structures."
Down the road and across an ideological chasm from Antioch, the students at Cedarville College, a Baptist liberal arts college, attend compulsory chapel for 45 minutes a day. Michelle Polish, an accounting major from Fraser, Mich., has wanted to work for a major accounting firm since she was a freshman. She thought it would be great to make a lot of money, and to work in a sophisticated city environment.
But this semester, the start of her last year in school, when the real world started to look surprisingly near, she said she has grown frightened of ending up "just a number" in a big firm. A few job interviews confirmed her fear. "They seemed so rigid, so unapproachable," she said.
Now she thinks she will work for a small accounting company for about five years, around which time, she said, she would be ready to give up her career and start raising a family.
Such ideas were expressed regularly in the heartland. When a group of students at Wright State University in Dayton got together in a dorm room recently, a freshman, Shannon Nutt, said she planned to become an elementary school teacher and was not bothered by dim salary prospects. "My salary isn't going to be the main one anyway," she said.
For many, college is limbo, a time of focusing on the future while lingering imnpatiently in the present. At Bradley University, four young women living together in a stage-set college apartment, knee-deep in electronic gear and wash-and-wear clothes, talked with unsettling weariness about the future.
"We were watching TV and talking about cars and how much they've changed," said Karen Casaccio, a junior from Bloomingdale, Ill. She recalled the boxy station wagons her father used to own, and compared them uneasily to the all-purpose vehicles sold now that look, she said, "like spaceships."
"It's very scary to look at where the world is going to be in 30 or 40 years," Miss Casaccio said. "Everything is so technical and so complicated, I wish I was in my 50's right now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tricia Hackett, Bradley University -- "A guy who normally is a pretty nice guy, at 2 in the morning after 15 or 20 beers turns into a different animal." (Fred Zwicky for The New York Times); Annette Hayes, Wilberforce University -- "I get worried about it especially when I see white people, with white-collar positions, losing their jobs." (Mark Lyons for The New York Times); Michael Idinopulos, University of Chicago -- "If we're not the best, we don't get the jobs. If we sleep with the wrong person, we end up with AIDS." (Fred Zwicky for The New York Times)
 
Graphic: "What They're Reading on Campus" lists the top 10 selling books on 40 campuses across the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PEORIA, IL, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (59%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (59%); BRADLEY UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PEORIA, IL, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); AIDS & HIV (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



847 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 2-6
 
GORBACHEV TO RESIGN TODAY
Yielding to political rejection and the plummeting economy, Mikhail S. Gorbachev plans to announce his resignation as President of the defunct Soviet Union on television today, his office said. Page 1
 

RISING PRICES TROUBLE MOSCOW
Ordinary Muscovites, their money losing buying power, are aware of the cataclysmic politics giving birth to a new country. But they seem more concerned with announced price increases on food. 6
 
BUSH RELUCTANT ON GORBACHEV
President Bush was reluctant to conclude that his friend and political ally Mikhail Gorbachev clung to power too long and dulled the luster of his achievements, Administration officials said. 6
 
HAITI SUFFERING SINCE THE COUP
Human rights specialists, relief workers, investors and legislators say Haiti, racked by violence and strangled by an embargo, continues to pay dearly for its turn away from democracy. 1
 
DISNEY DRESSED DOWN OVER RULES
By requiring workers at Euro Disneyland near Paris to follow detailed rules on proper attire and grooming, the Walt Disney Company finds itself caught in a legal and cultural clash with the French. 1
 
SALVADORAN PEACE TALKS SLOWED
Despite international pressure and earlier vows of peace by Christmas, progress has slowed in talks between the Salvadoran Government and its leftist adversaries. 3
 
BURMESE JUNTA FACES NEW UNREST
Alarmed by rebel attacks within 50 miles of the capital and by large student protests, the military Government of Myanmar, formerly Burma, is reinforcing troops to counter widening unrest. 3
 
IN BETHLEHEM, A SPIRIT OF HOPE
Bethlehem Journal: Beyond improved commercial possibilities, a breeze of hopefulness stroked the gray stone streets of Bethlehem as several thousand pilgrims attended midnight Mass. 4
 
PARTY QUITS ISRAELI COALITION
The leader of a small far-right party in Israel said he was pulling out of the governing coalition to protest Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's stand on proposals to change the electoral system. 4
 
Efforts to free two German hostages in Lebanon appear deadlocked. 5
 
NATIONAL 7-11
 
BLUE-COLLAR RECESSION
For all the talk of a "white-collar" recession, blue-collar workers have lost more jobs and endured far higher rates of unemployment. And an increasing number of blue-collar workers are facing the harsh truth that although the economy will come back, their lost jobs are probably gone for good. 1
 
WHEELS ACROSS AMERICA
While millions of Americans whoosh across the continent in jetliners during the holiday season, those of more modest means go by bus. Yet bus travel appeals not only to people with little money but also to those with lots of time, a fear of flying or a taste for adventure. 1
 
THE NEW NON-ISSUE
Whether sleeping on grates or in shelters, or begging from shoppers, the homeless seem to be everywhere this winter. Everywhere, that is, except in the campaign for the Presidency, where they are referred to only obliquely, if at all. 9
Milwaukee judges abandoned their Christmas moratorium on evictions. 9
 
Salt Lake City enacted a law against "rent thieves." 9
 
A CONSERVATIVE'S SCALPEL
Like the fiscal conservative he professes to be, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder is running for President on his record of cutting the Virginia budget instead of raising taxes. 8
 
THE LONG GOODBYE
Washington Talk: Lawrence E. Walsh, the independent prosecutor for Iran-contra cases, may be approaching the end of his inquiry. But his goodbye farewell could be a lengthy one. 7
 
HEMOPHILIACS AND AIDS
The virus that causes AIDS has infected almost every hemophiliac born before 1985. And now hemophiliacs are angrily questioning whether the AIDS disaster among them could have been lessened with earlier warnings about blood products. 7
 
U.S. SUES MIAMI BEACH
After months of failed talks, the Justice Department accused Miami Beach of bias against black and Hispanic people seeking jobs as police officers and firefighters. 7
 
INITIATIVE IN FOREIGN STUDIES
Responding to a fear that the nation does not have enough people versed in foreign languages or customs to protect against external threats, the Government has created a $150 million trust fund that is being called the biggest initiative in higher education since the National Defense Education Act of 1958. 11
 
The F.B.I. defended its methods of using genetic tests. 10
 
METROPOLITAN Digest, B1
 
CUOMO SHARPENS HIS TONGUE
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo is stepping up his attacks on Republicans in the State Senate, the same officials he blamed for killing his Presidential aspirations this year by not compromising on a budget solution. 1
 
BUSINES DIGEST Digest, 47
 
The Living Section 25-29
New tradition for Kwanzaa: Marketing American style. 25
Lions don't scratch, and sheep want to be angels. 25
What's so hot about a toddy? The heat. 25
Metropolitan Diary 26
60-Minute Gourmet 26
Food Notes 26
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-24
Film: "The Prince of Tides." 13
"Madame Bovary." 13
Music: The Pop Life. 13
Word and Image: "La Bayadere" on television. 13
 
Education Page 39
College students see a bleak future after graduation
 
Health Page 64
 
Sports 40-45
Basketball: Knicks on a roll.42
A trip to the suburbs for Lafayette. 43
Nets fans get in the act. 43
Hughes replaces Motta as coach of Kings. 43
Columns: Berkow on basketball. 41
 
Obituaries 38
A.J. McClane, a fisherman and angling authority
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 30-31
Editorials 30
Christmas harvest.
Make room for Cambodians.
A dickcissel in a park tree.
Brent Staples: "JFK."
Letters 30
Leslie H. Gelb: Checking it twice. 31
Lynda Barry: All is calm, all is blight. 31
Spalding Gray: A child's Christmas on Rumstick Road. 31

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iran-contra prosecutor's inquiry is winding down. 7 (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%); EDL (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MYANMAR (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (83%); EURO DISNEY SCA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MYANMAR (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); FRANCE (76%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHRISTMAS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (65%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



848 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Some Take the High Road, Some the Bus

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Dec. 22

 BODY:
At 6:45 A.M., most of the 47 passengers aboard Bus 5412 were still in a somnolent sprawl: heads back, mouths open, limbs colliding. Richmond was a memory and the long, neck-stiffening miles of the Carolinas were yet to unfold.
Then the inky horizon began to glow pink, and the driver, Emmett Diggs Jr., brushed aside talk of discomfort with a hushed tribute to a bus journey's virtues. 
 "Bea-uuuuu-tiful sunrises," he said.
While millions of Americans whoosh across the continent this week by air, the less fortunate get stuck on the bus.
For them, the holiday season often begins with frayed nerves, bouts of fatigue, smoky waiting rooms with hard plastic seats and lines that stretch for hours.
The distance between the croissant counter at National Airport outside Washington and the Burger King inside the city's bus station is one more measure of class differences in America and the routine discomforts endured by those of modest means.
But bus travel is more than just a cheap way of getting places. It is at the center of an American subculture that appeals not only to people with little money but also to those with lots of time, a fear of flying or a taste for adventure.
About a half-million Americans will travel by bus this week. Some have never had a financial choice. Others forgot to make plane reservations in time. Still others, traveling between small towns have no other choice. And some people, pressed by the recession to economize, are taking buses for the first time.
It is an experience that cries out for a chronicler. Country music has immortalized the pickup truck, and folk singers the freight train, but far fewer poets have turned a phrase about 19 fuming tons of Americruiser.
A 18-hour, 725-mile ride from Washington, D.C., to Jacksonville, Fla., brings encounters with all kinds of bus riders: blacks who migrated to Brooklyn and are returning to the small towns of the South; a newlywed soldier from Fort Bragg about to meet his in-laws for the first time; a Greek Orthodox priest reading Hans Kung; a Long Island man who was bumped from the first leg of a plane trip to Ecuador, hoping to get the second leg out of Miami.
Louise Bishop, 66, first made the ride from Walterboro, S.C., to New York City in 1944. Then she settled in Brooklyn, found work in a factory, and has been making the 800-mile bus trip for holidays and funerals ever since.
This time, she bought a $189 round trip ticket at the last minute to see her Aunt Mabel, who is in a nursing home.
"After awhile it begins to get to you," she said as the darkness rolled past, explaining that recent surgery kept her from sleeping, and the enforced idleness sometimes made her feet swell. But she quickly added: "This isn't a bad ride. I shouldn't say that."
 
Sharing More Than a Ride
 People on a bus bestow surprising gifts.
Air travelers will occasionally exchange business cards. Where but on a bus, however, would a traveler find Carolyn Beachem, 32, offering up a can of Libby's Potted Meat Food Product.
People on a bus get excited.
"I love it, man!," said Mohan Naraine, 37, a Guyanese man from Queens who marveled at the peacefulness of the Carolina countryside. "You don't see these things in New York. So much room! And so quiet!"
People on a bus like 3-year-old Joey Vega have adventures. He said: "I like the bathroom. You pull the lock and the big light comes on. It's fun."
This was not a widely shared view.
"That restroom stinks," said the fourth driver of the run, Alan Bratton, as he neared the Florida line, handing a can of air freshener to a passenger.
There are also the lines. Greyhound is hoping to start a reservation system next year, but for now bus travel is a first come, first served proposition. The line for the 1:35 A.M. bus heading south from Washington had 76 people, including an elderly woman who had been standing for two hours complaining of high blood pressure. When the bus pulled in, 20 seats were available.
If the overflow is large enough, as it was that night, Greyhound tries to run an extra bus. If not, passengers must wait for the next departure.
And bus travel is not always as cheap as it sounds. Greyhound's round trip fare from New York to Miami is $203. Amtrak's $155 round trip is cheaper, but it is filled far in advance. Last weekend, American Airlines had a $338 round trip with limited availability and a $1,000 full fare on coach.
 
Decrease in Passengers
 Greyhound, which has enjoyed a monopoly since it acquired Trailways in 1987, does offer an advantage to families with children under 11: each child riding with an adult who pays full fare travels free in the month of December.
With the recession on, business is off. Greyhound emerged from bankruptcy proceedings only last month, and has been operating with replacement drivers since its unionized drivers went on strike in March 1990. Liz Dunn, a company spokeswoman, said Greyhound expected 460,000 passengers from Dec. 20 through Dec. 26, down by about 10 percent from last year.
Amtrak expects about 505,000 passengers to ride trains over the same period, virtually unchanged from last year. The American Transport Association predicts that 11.2 million Americans will take airplanes, a figure that is up by about 1 percent.
"We think we are getting some passengers who would normally travel by air," Ms. Dunn said, but added that it was not enough to replace those "who are choosing not to travel this year because of the economic conditions."
Ms. Dunn said that as air travel had become more affordable, Greyhound had come to serve an increasingly poorer clientele. Marketing surveys show that 46 percent of its passengers earn less than $15,000 a year and 19 percent earn more than $35,000.
 
$99 One Way, Anywhere
 This year, Greyhound offers a $99 one-way ticket anywhere, with a seven-day advance purchase.
Mason Smith grabbed it in Brunswick, Me. Estranged from his parents, Mr. Smith, 18, said he supported himself by washing dishes in a diner while he finished high school. The school librarian packed him a bag of Christmas cookies and he promised his coach he would return in time for the next basketball game.
Then he stuffed the remainder of his cash reserves -- a $5 bill -- into his sock for safekeeping, and headed off to surprise his grandparents in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Twenty-four hours later, he was bouncing along in the Carolinas, weary but content, in the back row alongside his new friend, Ray Titone, a 28-year-old truck driver on his way to visit his fiancee in Savannah.
They both wore rings in their left ears and billed caps.
"Me and him got so much in common," said Mr. Smith, a touch of amazement in his voice. "He likes Syracuse; I like Syracuse. He likes the Hurricanes, I like the Hurricanes. It's quite funny."
Savannah brought an exchange of addresses, and Mr. Smith rode the next 12 hours alone, hoping that his grandparents would be happy enough to see him to pay for a plane home.
He arrived at 3:00 A.M., and was met by his grandparents' neighbors, he said the next day by telephone. Too excited to sleep despite 40 hours of travel, he waited at their house until 7:00 A.M., sneaked next door and rang the bell.
How did it feel to be there?
"Great. Paradise. Can't describe it," he said.
Then he added what might be called the bus traveler's motto. "If I had to do it again," he said, "I would."

GRAPHIC: Photos: People on a bus bestow surprising gifts. Carolyn Beachem, right, with her daughters Kenyuana, 7, and Shantice, 2, offered cans of potted meat on a trip from Richmond to Jacksonville, Fla.; "Bea-uuuuu-tiful sunrises," is how Emmett Diggs, a driver, describes a bus journey's virtues. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Graph: "Riding the Bus" shows bus riders by race, employment and income (Source: Greyhound marketing research) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUSES; NYTRAVEL MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); TRAINS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); COUNTRY MUSIC (63%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



849 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
GORBACHEV PLANS TO GIVE UP POWER TO YELTSIN TODAY

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 24

 BODY:
Driven out by political rejection and the plummeting economy, Mikhail S. Gorbachev plans to announce his resignation as President of the defunct Soviet Union on Wednesday in a television address to the nation, his office said today.
Immediately after, the launching codes for the Soviet nuclear arsenal are to be handed over to President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, according to the transition plan for shifting Soviet power to the new Commonwealth of Independent States. 
 As Mr. Gorbachev prepared to leave the Kremlin, officials of the new commonwealth order met to discuss the horrendous economic problems they share. They also discussed the risks attending the plan of Russia, the dominant republic, to begin shifting Jan. 2 to consumer price rises and other painful free-market necessities. [Page 6.]
 
Fighting in Georgia
 At the same time, civil conflict raged for a third day between the Government and opposition in Georgia, one of the former Soviet republics, not in the commonwealth, whose volatile political vendettas formerly were policed by union troops.
Tonight, as the red Soviet flag still fluttered brilliantly in the Kremlin floodlights, a retrospective on Mr. Gorbachev's career was shown on state television.
His successor as the former empire's dominant politician, President Yeltsin, told reporters that in their transition meeting on Monday, Mr. Gorbachev had given him Kremlin archive documents, including some drawn up under Stalin.
These documents were described in a Tass press agency report as "casting light upon crimes against people of the Soviet Union and other countries." No other details were offered.
 
11th Hour Warnings
 Mr. Gorbachev was still warning in eleventh hour news interviews against "huge perils" he sees along the commonwealth path being taken by 11 former Soviet republics newly dedicated to independence within a loose association.
But the Soviet leader appeared ready to accept his fate, which will include as retirement benefits his 48,000-ruble annual salary. This is luxury remuneration under old Communist standards but, under the degraded economy of Mr. Gorbachev's reform years, it translates to less than $10 a week in the hard-currency world market to which the new commonwealth aspires.
The 60-year-old Soviet leader, whose reforms made possible the freely shifting politics to which he must now succumb, will also receive a Moscow apartment, a dacha retreat, two cars and 20 bodyguards. His pension, worked out by Mr. Yeltsin and other onetime rivals within the party who now are the leaders of the commonwealth, includes free care at the elite hospital system left as one of the legacies of the Communist hierarchy that Mr. Gorbachev once dominated.
The benefits, however, amount to so much hemlock to Mr. Gorbachev. The occasion is a bitter defeat as he retains worldwide respect for his daring nuclear disarmament initiatives even as he is shunned at home by the remnant republics of the union he fought to maintain.
Mr. Gorbachev personally thanked and shook the hands of his Kremlin staff today in cleaning up his affairs. "I wish you all great happiness and success," he told them.
After six years and nine months in office, Mr. Gorbachev seemed reflective in one newspaper interview about some of the critical might-have-beens of his tumultuous, liberating, crisis-bedeviled tenure.
"I expected a blow from the party's conservative circles and, therefore, I kept them close," he said in explaining why the conspirators who seized him last August in the hard-line coup that failed included his closest military and cabinet advisers. "Work among them was also under way," he told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper. "This is the reason why I did not quit the post of the party general secretary, whose tight grip I always felt."
 
Dismisses Coup Speculation
 Mr. Gorbachev dismissed the likelihood of another military coup attempt.
"The people will not accept it and the army will not move to stage it," he told the newspaper. "The sole danger emanates from the street, if disaffected people will take to the street and political prostitues and profiteers will prod them to action."
On the eve of his resignation, which Mr. Gorbachev termed "unavoidable"in one of his interviews, financial ministers tabulating the Soviet Union's debt announced that it would grow another five billion rubles this month and top the trillion-ruble mark for the year. The republics in the new commonwealth must still decide how to apportion this debt, which they have agreed in principle to honor.
A thicket of economic problems awaits the new commonwealth. Russia, the richest and largest republic, already is exercising the upper hand in seeking to set the currency and other free-market policies that the weaker, poorer republics, such as the central Asian nations, will find hard to resist.
A final session of the Soviet Parliament was attempted but had to be adjourned overnight after deputies could not bring themselves to vote immediately on a resolution stating that the "the U.S.S.R. as a subject of international law and geopolitical reality has ceased to exist."
"This is treason and betrayal," complained a deputy, Vavil Nosov.
The commonwealth went forward nevertheless, with republic prime ministers meeting here to prepare for a meeting of their presidents on Dec. 30 in Minsk, Byelorussia, the commonwealth headquarters.
That session will take up major differences that remain on creating a common military defense command and on controlling the Soviet Union's nuclear weapons. Kazakhstan, one of four republics with strategic missiles on its soil, is balking at a Russian proposal that all strategic missiles be moved to Russia. It has agreed in the meanwhile that President Yeltsin should be the individual controlling the nuclear button but with the assent of all four republics needed for a decision to launch.
The new politics and jealousies of the commonwealth are already becoming clear. President Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine complained that the West, in paying special attention to Russia, was slighting the other independent and equal states that had arisen with the fall of the union.
 
Death Toll Climbs
 In Georgia, the civil conflict continued to take lives and rip up the government center in the heart of Tbilisi as President Zviad Gamsakhurdia's defenders engaged in artillery, machine gun and rifle battles with rebel national guard units.
The death toll estimates varied from 30 to 80. The rebels, led by former Prime Minister Tengis Sigua and a national guard officer, Tengis Khitovani, claimed they were blocking the advance of reinforcements and would maintain the attack until the resignation of Mr. Gamsakhurdia.
Opposition critics complain that by introducing press censorship and other restrictions, Mr. Gamsakhurdia has been building an autocracy. But the Georgian President, whose popularity with the masses was established in a landslide election victory last spring, says his critics are merely coup plotters and opportunists.
President Yeltsin said that he had rejected President Gamsakhurdia's plea for a meeting because the Georgian leader had committed human rights violations in using military force against the Ossetian minority in their nationalism drive.
Commonwealth members, Mr. Yeltsin said, wanted to create "volunteer inter-republic security forces" in order to avoid appealing to the United Nations to handle such troubles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As fighting between Government and opposition forces went on for a third day in the republic of Georgia, an opposition National Guard soldier returned fire in an art gallery near Government headquarters in Tbilisi. (Reuters) (pg. 1); A terminal session of the union parliament was attempted but had to be adjourned overnight after deputies could not bring themselves to vote immediately on a resolution stating that "the U.S.S.R. as a subject of international law and geopolitical reality has ceased to exist."; President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, center, meeting with his staff yesterday in the Kremlin, perhaps for the last time. Mr. Gorbachev plans to announce his resignation as President of the moribund Soviet Union today. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (54%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



850 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 28.40 More, To 3,050.98

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks rose sharply yesterday in an abbreviated pre-holiday session, led by large industrial stocks still being swept along by the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cut on Friday.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 28.40 more points to its 88-point leap on Monday, adjourning for Christmas at 3,050.98. The Dow traded far higher during the day, at one point momentarily surpassing its record close of 3,077.15, set on Oct. 18. 
 The rally of the last three days demonstrates growing confidence in an eventual economic rebound, traders said. Since Friday, the Dow has gained 136 points, or 4.7 percent.
 
S.& P. 500 at a Record
 Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, another blue-chip indicator and perhaps a more meaningful gauge since it tracks a larger number of big issues, set a record closing high of 399.33, up 2.51 points. Its previous record, 397.41, was set Nov. 13.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was surprisingly heavy for the short session, which ended at 2 P.M., as shares changing hands totaled 162.4 million, compared with Monday's 229.2 million. Stocks that gained completely overwhelmed losing ones for the second day this week. There were 1,275 issues up and 437 down.
In the bond market, Treasury issues posted slight gains in a shortened session. [Page 56.]
John Brooks, a technical analyst with Davis Mendel & Regenstein in Atlanta, said people had to be impressed with the market. "Any thoughts of Monday's market being a flash in the pan was thrown out the window yesterday," he said.
"The advance and decline issues, again over 1,200 on very strong volume, indicates that prices may yet go higher," he added. "It is apparent that everyone is responding to this year's discount rate cuts, particularly the one percentage point cut on Friday."
 
Broader Indexes Higher
 The Big Board composite index rose 1.52 points to close at 219.65, while the American Stock Exchange index gained 2.52 points for a finish at 373.45. Trading on the Nasdaq was equally active as the composite jumped 5.66 points, to 549.56.
Smaller issues were also subjected to heavy buying by investors, as evidenced by the Russell 2,000, the barometer of small companies, up 1.65 points, to 179.55.
Early in the session, stocks rose in active trading as investors continued to get caught up in the enthusiasm generated by Friday's cut in the discount rate and by a stronger than expected rise in the November durable goods data, which traders say bodes well for economically sensitive issues.
The morning's gains were fueled by carry-over buying from Monday's session and a stronger-than-expected durable-goods report that suggested there might be life in the manufacturing sector after all.
 
Report on Durable Goods
 According to many economists, the 1.2 percent rise in durable goods hints of an economic recovery on track, but some say that while the trend is basically up, it may not be enough to guarantee a solid recovery.
The market first successfully tested the 3,040 level on the Dow, after failing for the first hour of trading to break that ceiling firmly. The next test was at the 3,060 level on the Dow.
The Dow managed to break through the 3,060 level for about an hour before retreating at the end.
Mr. Brooks believes that the next test for the market will be at 3,100 on the Dow, a big pyschological barrier.
 
Basic Industries Lead
 Traders said that if one did not believe that the large industrials were leading the market all they had to do was look at companies like Allied Signal, up 3, to 41, and Alcoa, up 2 1/4, to 64 1/4, to be convinced. One trader said, "You can't get any more basic than those two."
Elsewhere in the market traders said Cray Computer stock tumbled 5 1/8 to close at 5 3/4 in heavy trading after the company lost its only customer. Late Monday the company said Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory had decided to switch to another computer system that was being offered by a competitor, Cray Research, which is not affiliated with Cray Computer. Yesterday Cray Research stock rose 3 1/4, to finish at 37 3/4.
Merck, which said on Monday that it and SmithKline Beecham had signed a letter to co-promote a new anti-cholesterol drug called Zocor or Simvatatin, rose to a high of 161 before finishing at 158 7/8, off 1 1/8.
Traders said Steven Kernkraut, an analyst with Bear, Stearns, increased his rating on Charming Shoppes to a "strong buy" from a "buy," saying that the shares are undervalued compared with other retailers. The stock rose 1 7/8 to close at 22 5/8.
Hilton Hotels rose 3/4, to 38 1/8, as Steven Eisenberg, an analyst at Oppenheimer, reiterated his long-term buy recommendation, noting that lodging fundamentals were slowly becoming better and that business at the company's gaming tables improved greatly this year.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



851 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
 
 For all the talk of a "white collar" recession, it is blue-collar workers who have been hardest hit by the current economic slump, losing more jobs and enduring far higher rates of unemployment. Five times as many blue-collar jobs have evaporated, and jobless rates are more than twice as severe. [Page 1.] 
 New orders for big-ticket durable goods rose 1.2 percent in November, to $124.7 billion, the second straight monthly rise, the Government said. Some economists took it as an encouraging sign, while others cautioned that durables orders often swung wildly from month to month. [47.]
Some Manhattan retailers said business was strong, while several others said profits were flat to down from last year. Nearly all agreed that consumers are buying less. [47.]
 
Companies
Oil refineries can meet the deadlines specified by the Clean Air Act for less-polluting gasoline and diesel fuel, according to an independent consulting firm. The conclusion stands in stark contrast to the protests of oil companies. [47.]
Some of the biggest U.S. airlines confirmed that they are raising most domestic fares by 2 percent on Jan. 3. [47.]
Walt Disney's rules on employee appearance and hygiene for Euro Disneyland, near Paris, have caught the company in a legal and cultural dispute. [1.]
General Motors acknowledged that it paid merit bonuses and increased the pay of much of its salaried work force just before it announced widespread job rductions and plant closings. [50.]
 
Business Technology
Gathering the sun's energy in space and beaming it to earth for electric power is a long-harbored dream, but technology is moving toward that goal. [49.]
Microwave beaming of electricity from space seems destined to find smaller-scale applications fairly soon. [49.]
 
International
Secretive Maxwell units in Liechtenstein appear to hold a key to the unresolved question of how much money the family still has -- and whether there might be more for debtors to recover. [47.]
 
Markets
Stocks rose sharply in an abbreviated session, led by large industrial stocks still being swept along by the Fed's rate cut. The Dow rose 28.40, to 3,050.98, and the S.&P. 500 set a record. [47.]
Uncovered Nasdaq short sales fell 2.2 million, or 0.7 percent, to 332.5 million for the month ended Dec. 15. [53.]
The Treasury bond market closed with slight gains, rebounding from a spate of selling early in the day. [56.]
Cattle prices soared, continuing a rally that started on Monday, and wheat prices hit contract highs. [57.]
The dollar rose in a quiet session as the market took its cues from a Government report on business orders to factories. [57.]
 
Today's Column
America's frustration with Japan's growing trade surplus is threatening to boil over again. Economic Scene. [48.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%); EDL (PAR) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (55%); EURO DISNEY SCA (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); GASOLINE (74%); CLOSINGS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); DIESEL FUEL (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); AIRLINES (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (63%); US DOLLAR (62%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (61%); BOND MARKETS (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



852 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Wilder Runs on a Record of Achievement, and Thwarted Efforts

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Like all Presidential candidates, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder says he is running on his record.
In one sense, it is a record of huge achievement, the record of a man who overcame poverty and racism to become the first black ever elected governor in the United States. 
 But it is also the record of a man who, once he took office here in January 1990, found himself trapped in a national economic recession that thwarted his efforts to start new programs and squeezed much of the life from existing ones. In the two years since, he has been forced to spend most of his time searching for ways to keep the state budget out of the red.
 
Leader on the Job
 Unlike senators and other politicians who run for President, a sitting governor who becomes a Presidential candidate brings along a detailed, and current, record as head of state. Voters can look at that record and find clues about his abilities as an administrator, a delegator and an initiator, as well as his skills in attracting qualified aides.
Critics contend that Mr. Wilder's record for his first two years as Governor is one of few accomplishments. They say he has spent too much time out of state running for President rather than running the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Mr. Wilder counters that although he inherited an economic mess that was one of the worst in the nation and although he has lacked the money for new programs he has more than met the greatest governing challenge of his first two years.
He boasts that at a time when at least half of the nation's other governors were raising taxes to balance budgets wracked by the recession, he has avoided a tax increase and has balanced his state's budget by shifting money and cutting staff and programs.
"He was dealt a lousy economic hand right from the start," said Robert D. Holsworth, a political scientist at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. "But he played it like the fiscal conservative he claims to be and he gets credit for that. He cut and trimmed and he didn't raise taxes. Now he can legitimately make that part of his campaign credentials."
 
Budget Turnaround
 Virginia ranks near the bottom in the amount it taxes its residents, but Mr. Wilder says the burden is still too heavy. He said in an interview that cuts and trims are the best solution to a deficit and that he managed to cut and trim "without slicing through any arteries."
So proud is Mr. Wilder of his achievement, in which he erased a $2.2 billion deficit in a $26 billion budget, that he is making it a centerpiece of his run for the Presidency. He contends that the way he has handled Virginia's budget troubles is a good measure of his governing skills.
"The Democratic Party won't win the White House again until it stops offering up tax-and-spend nominees," he said.
In the first two years of his four-year term as governor -- under Virginia law he cannot run for a consecutive term -- Mr. Wilder has frequently promised better schools, better health programs, better housing and better highways. He has also called for greater efforts to control crime and drugs and to improve opportunities and jobs for blacks and women. So far he has had to put almost all of these initiatives on hold.
But when it comes to assembling an administration, he is credited with attracting a record number of blacks and women to state positions.
A third of his appointees to major executive and administrative jobs have been women, including two of eight Cabinet members. He has appointed two blacks to his Cabinet and filled one of every four top executive and administrative posts with a black.
Mr. Wilder was required by the Virginia Constitution to balance the budget. To make up the predicted deficit of $2.2 billion, he shifted some of the revenue from the lucrative state lottery, assumed higher revenue from state investments than was originally forecast, cut construction money for dozens of programs, froze the budgets of most agencies, let attrition and layoffs reduce the state work force and canceled raises for state workers. He cut his own salary of $108,000 by 2 percent.
The effect of the budget cuts is now being felt across Virginia in the form of crowded schools, abandoned highway projects, fewer services for the needy and government paychecks that have not kept up with inflation. Yet unlike some states, Virginia has not had to close schools for a few days to save money, nor are its main highways in bad shape. So far, only several hundred workers have been laid off.
Generally, state agencies had been scheduled to receive budget increases of 11 percent this year to keep up with inflation and population growth. But Mr. Wilder's cuts reduced that to 8 percent. The size of the work force was frozen at about 100,000 employees through attrition and several hundred layoffs. Increases in welfare payments were also frozen, as were services for the mentally impaired.
Capital expenditures were sharply scaled back, particularly work on a major new highway running through the state's undeveloped rural areas south of Richmond.
Mr. Wilder cut state aid to local schools by 5 percent, or about $100 million, resulting in more crowded classrooms and a decline in school construction. Teachers salaries were also frozen. He cut $50 million in aid to the state's college system, one of the best in the Southeast. Many schools then raised tuition to offset the loss.
Mr. Wilder's critics predict that most of the budget-balancing steps will come to haunt him in 1992 when he will again face declining revenue as well as rising costs and demands for state services. They say he will not be able to turn to those same areas for further savings without harming many programs and agencies. This time, they say, he will be forced to accept a tax increase or new bond issue.
"He's used a lot of smoke and mirrors and it's going to catch up with him," said Steve Haner, the director of the Republican caucus in the Virginia Legislature. "As starters, you can't rob Peter to pay Paul with lottery revenues and you can't assume higher returns on investments when interest rates actually are declining."
 
More Cutting Proposed
 The Governor said he was aware he might face new budget problems. Though he is running on his anti-tax record, he indicates a willingness to trim even in that area, if necessary.
"We've got more hard times coming in Virginia," he explained. "I would rather squeeze the budget harder than raise taxes, and I will propose no raise. But I would not automatically veto a new tax bill from the Legislature, so long as it had genuine bipartisan support."
There is some talk of an increase among legislators, who are fully aware that Virginia ranks 43d in the proportion of personal income that residents pay in state and local taxes.
The Wilder record for the past two years on the environment is not as easy to read.
He has opposed efforts to weaken laws designed to clean up the Chesapeake Bay and has been a leader in the national effort to restrict the use of an agricultural insecticide, carbofuran, which harms birds. But under his administration, the state has been criticized by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency for not cleaning up toxic waste at a state fuel depot.
"He has taken some good environmental stands," said David W. Carr Jr., the chief lawyer for the Southern Environmental Law Center, an advocate group based in Charlottesville. "But over all he hasn't been as aggressive as we would have liked."
Mr. Wilder's budget-balancing effort has cost him considerable support among Virginia voters.
According to several independent polls, his approval rating is around 25 percent, an unusually low figure for any governor. In fact, as he begins his quest for the Presidency, he is the most unpopular chief executive of Virginia in modern history.
The budget cuts are a main factor but far from the only factor.
Poll takers say another significant factor is Mr. Wilder's decision to run for President, which many voters view as an abandonment of Virgina at the moment when the state most needs his full attention. Several newspaper columnists in the state have proposed a bumper sticker that would proclaim "Wilder for Resident," since in 1991 the Governor has been out of state more than one of every three days.
Mr. Wilder has acknowledged that one of the risks in a Presidential candidacy is that it can detract from work back at the state capitol.
But Mr. Wilder plunged in anyway, as has another governor, Bill Clinton of Arkansas. "I will not let my candidacy hurt my state," Mr. Wilder promises.
 
Effect in Fall ElectionsUnease in State
 Mr. Wilder's declining popularity was a factor in this fall's state elections. Hardly any Democratic candidates asked the Governor to campaign for them. Republicans campaigned as much against Mr. Wilder as against their opponents, some successfully. Republicans gained eight seats in the 40-seat State Senate, cutting the Democratic margin to four seats.
One re-election victim was an important Wilder supporter, State Senator J. Granger MacFarlane of Roanoke.
"He did what he had to do and history will show it was a real feat of leadership," Mr. MacFarlane said of the Governor's performance over the past two years.
Thomas R. Morris, a University of Richmond political scientist, offered a broader view.
Mr. Wilder inherited what may have been the worst economic situation any Virginia Governor has faced in almost 50 years, Mr. Morris said in an interview. He credited Mr. Wilder with making hard decisions to balance the budget but added that those decisions, in a sense, made it easier to judge the Governor by what he had not done than by what he had done. Then he concluded:
"His greatest strength thus far has not been governing but winning elections with historical biracial coalitions. He is the only black in all of American history who has managed to get himself elected governor of a state. Nothing he has done in the 22 months since has transcended that victory."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Critics of Gov. L. Douglas Wilder say he has spent too much time running for President rather than running the Commonwealth of Virginia. Mr. Wilder after he announced his candidacy in September. (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: "Wilder's Virginia" shows Virginia's population, poverty levels, unemployment rate and teachers salaries (Sources: Census Bureau, Labor Department, Virginia Employment Commission, National Education Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); RANKINGS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (63%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; WILDER, L DOUGLAS (GOV) LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



853 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Homelessness Rises, but Not as Issue

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
Early in the 1988 New Hampshire primary campaign, almost every Democratic Presidential candidate accompanied Mayor Raymond L. Flynn of Boston on a visit to a city-run homeless shelter. Once there, the Democrats talked with residents of the city's Long Island Shelter while television cameras captured the candidates' concern and beamed the images to neighboring New Hampshire.
So far in this campaign, no candidate has visited the center, though all have invitations from Mayor Flynn. Only one, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, has expressed an interest in making such a visit. 
 Whether sleeping on grates or in temporary shelters, or panhandling from shoppers, the homeless seem to be everywhere this holiday season, everywhere but in the campaign for the Presidency, where they are referred to only obliquely, if at all.
 
Putting an Issue to Sleep
 The virtual disappearance of homelessness from the political debate is a study of how changes in the economy, perceived shifts in public opinion and a new mix of candidates can drive into the shadows what had been a major issue. And the issue of homelessness is receding even as the problem appears to be getting worse.
"A number of people are concerned about the homeless issue, but not many people down in Washington are effectively dealing with it, particularly the candidates for President both on the Republican and Democratic sides," Mayor Flynn said.
Homelessness would more likely have been raised in the campaign if the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who often spoke about the problem in 1988, had become a candidate. Mr. Jackson, who said recently that he planned to sleep in Lafayette Park, across the street from the White House, on Christmas Eve to dramatize the plight of the homeless, declared this week that he was "disappointed" that the issue had received so little attention .
So far in the current campaign, no Democratic candidate has issued a position paper addressing homelessness; the subject rarely comes up in speeches and it was not mentioned by any candidate in the nationally televised debate almost two weeks ago.
The only candidate who has put forward a plan for dealing with the homeless has been Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist who is challenging President Bush in the Republican primary in New Hampshire. Mr. Buchanan has suggested that the homeless be forcibly removed from the streets each night and taken to temporary shelters, or jailed if they persist in trying to sleep in public.
"In places like New York, a lot of these homeless folks are stabbing people to death," Mr Buchanan told reporters this week. "I think they shouldn't be wandering the streets frightening women and people."
 
'There Is Great Concern'
 While the candidates seem to be saying little about homelessness, it is perhaps the nation's most visible poverty issue. For the most part, problems of the poor, including welfare dependency, births out of wedlock, hunger and lack of health care, exist as abstractions or television images for many. But everyday the homeless confront people who live and work in cities.
"People that I talk to in my city and opinion polls show that there is great concern by the American public about homelessness on the street," said Mayor James Scheibel of St. Paul, who is chairman of the United States Conference of Mayors Task Force on Hunger and Homelessness.
But that concern is not always for the well-being of the homeless.
Some advocates for the homeless acknowledge that a backlash against the homeless in recent years is growing. They say that cities as widely situated as Santa Monica, Calif., Atlanta and New York have placed restrictions on begging or sleeping in public.
The number of the homeless is expected to rise as the nation's economy continues to falter, though precise numbers are difficult to come by. A 1991 survey of 28 cities that was made public two weeks ago by the mayors conference showed that requests for emergency shelter had risen by an average of 13 percent over the last year. Mr. Scheibel said it was the ninth consecutive year in which the survey had found an increase in such requests.
Yet, although the number of homeless people has gone up, the economic and political climate for a public discussion of the issue has undergone drastic change since the last Presidential campaign.
In the robust economic climate of 1988 the issue for Democratic candidates was fairness and compassion for people at the bottom of the economic ladder. They tried to position themselves as candidates who would not forget about the poor and the homeless.
But with the recession increasingly eliminating or threatening the jobs of blue-collar and white-collar workers, Democratic candidates are talking about the problems of the middle class rather than those of the homeless.
"Last time, homeless people were so illustrative of what was happening in the economy," said Lorraine Voles, spokeswoman for Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, one of the Democratic candidates this year. "This time, the economy is so much worse, you can take your pick -- white collar out of work, blue collar out of work. There are so many other groups that illustrate the economic woes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 HOMELESSNESS (97%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PANHANDLING (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (58%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



854 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene

BYLINE: By Sylvia Nasar

 BODY:
AMERICA'S frustration with Japan's growing trade surplus is threatening to boil over again. The common complaint, echoed both in Congress and the Administration, is that the cheap dollar is not curing the United States trade deficit.
But contrary to the politicians' claims, argues Paul Krugman, an international economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose views were published recently by Science magazine and the Institute for International Economics, the cheap dollar has worked better than people realize. He calls stagnating productivity, not the trade deficit, America's top economic problem. 
 The United States trade deficit, correctly defined as the current account deficit, which includes tourism, shipping, financial and other services as well as merchandise, has all but disappeared. The deficit, as Mr. Krugman puts it, went up and down the hill with the dollar in the 1980's, only more slowly.
In the first half the 80's, the dollar appreciated by an astounding 50 percent. The trade deficit, which had bobbed around zero for most of the 60's and 70's, zoomed to 3.6 percent of the gross national product in 1987, two years after the dollar started falling from its zenith.
"By early 1991," Mr. Krugman writes, "about half of this divergence from the historical norm had been eliminated, due in large part to a sharp rise in the dollar value of the yen and the mark."
As it turns out, Mr. Krugman's estimate for the 1991 current account deficit, which he put at 1.7 percent of G.N.P., or roughly $80 billion, was too pessimistic. The deficit is likely to come in at one-half of 1 percent of G.N.P., around $25 billion this year, according to economists at J. P. Morgan.
The Morgan economists expect the deficit to be around $30 billion next year. Relative to the size of the economy, that is not far above its level in the late 70's, when the dollar's value relative to the currencies of its trading partners was roughly where it is now.
Japan's surplus also shrank sharply from 1988 to 1990 -- from a peak of 3.6 percent of Japan's G.N.P. in 1987 to 1 percent last year, its long-term average. The fact that Japan's surplus has been swelling this year neither portends a major reversal, Mr. Krugman said, nor is it a sign that Japan's economy does not respond to price changes.
Part of last year's decline in Japan's surplus was because of one-time events. Japanese exports are fetching higher prices because the yen has strengthened since last year, and the prices of oil and other imported commodities have fallen.
Japan is expected to run a small surplus, about 1 to 2 percent of G.N.P, most of the decade, economists say. One reason is that its surplus with the United States, its largest trading partner, is not likely to vanish.
Why hasn't everyone noticed the extent of the adjustment? Partly because most people focus on the merchandise trade deficit, which is still close to $70 billion, rather than on the broader current account balance. It is also that many focus on the absolute size of the deficit, not its size relative to the economy.
"What people don't realize is that a $70 billion deficit today is the same as a $30 billion deficit in 1980, Mr. Krugman said.
Two important conclusions emerge. One is that the current United States deficit -- as well as the Japanese surpluses -- are economically sustainable. Japan's foreign assets are no longer exploding, Mr. Krugman said, and neither is the United States' foreign debt. "It would take generations to run up a Latin America size debt," he said.
The second conclusion is that having nearly balanced trade is not the same as having a clean bill of economic health. The deeper problem, that Japanese investment is outstripping that in the United States, remains. Productivity in the United States, which determines how fast living standards can rise, is rising only about 1 percent a year, against 4 percent in Japan.
United States productivity began to stagnate in the early 1970's, long before the nation began running huge trade deficits. Now that those deficits have dwindled, productivity is still stagnating. "The whole point is that flexible exchange rates guarantee that any country, no matter how poor its productivity performance, will find something to export," Mr. Krugman said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; CURRENCY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) PAUL KRUGMAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



855 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Refugees in Cuba Will Get Gifts a Day Late

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
In the wake of a mushrooming barrage of criticism and embarrassing publicity, the Air Force will play Santa's helper to thousands of Haitians held at a United States refugee camp in Cuba, the Department of Defense said today.
But organizers of the drive to bring some holiday cheer to 7,000 Haitian refugees said the Defense Department's decision came too late to get 16 tons of toys and clothing donated by New Yorkers to the camp by Christmas. They said the gifts, collected through a drive on two black-owned local radio stations, will not be delivered until Friday because of delays by officials in the administration of President Bush.. 
 "Like the Grinch, he almost stole Christmas," said Percy Sutton, chairman of the board of Inner City Broadcasting, which owns the two radio stations that organized the relief drive. "The Bush Administration has had some reservations. And because of those reservations we can't get down there before Christmas."
The last-minute announcement of the airlift, which followed consultations between senior Defense Department and White House officials, comes amid growing criticism of the Administration's policy toward the Haitian refugees being held at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay. Some prominent blacks have characterized the Government's earlier decision to send the Haitians back to their homeland as racist.
 
Santa or Scrooge?
 Administration officials have "to decide whether they want to be Santa Claus or Scrooge," Charles Moses, an aide to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, said before the Defense Department announced its decision to have an Air Force plane land at Guantanamo.
Spokesmen for the Administration and the Defense Department denied that the decision and its timing were caused by public criticism, an example of which was the Page 1 headline in The New York Post -- "Scrooge!" -- over a photograph of Defense Secretary Dick Cheney. "We weren't embarrassed into doing this," said Judy Smith, a White House spokeswoman. "We're doing this because it's the right thing to do."
Defense Department officials said the delay in arranging the flight was unavoidable, caused by the unusual circumstances of the airlift request. "It just didn't follow normal procedures so it took a little longer," said Major Bryan G. Whitman, a spokesman for the department.
Three weeks ago, Guantanamo was visited by a group headed by Mr. Sutton, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat who has been a leading advocate of efforts to obtain asylum for the 7,000 Haitians being held in a tent city at the base. The Haitians were plucked from boats by Coast Guard cutters after fleeing their homeland, which has been torn by violence in the wake of a September coup that overthrew the elected Government of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The Administration, in arguing for forced repatriation, insists that the Haitians are economic refugees. But leaders of the Haitian community in the United States and their supporters say the refugees are fleeing political persecution and should be given asylum.
Mr. Sutton said that, during his group's visit to the camp, the Haitians and military commanders asked them to help bring some Christmas cheer to the refugees. "They're the most bored people on earth," he said in a telephone interview. "They have no entertainment, nothing to do. So we decided to do something nice for them."
That led to appeals for toys, clothing and canned goods, broadcast on Inner City's radio stations, WLIB, 1190 on the AM dial, and WBLS, 107.5 on the FM band. Response, Mr. Sutton said, was "overwhelming," with the public and advertisers donating to what became known as Operation Hope. At least 16 tons of goods were dropped off in two weeks at seven collection sites, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (90%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; GUANTANAMO (CUBA) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS GIFTS; AIRLIFTS REFUGEES (91%); CHRISTMAS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NAVIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CITY LIFE (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GRUSON, LINDSEY GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (57%); JESSE JACKSON (55%); CHARLES B RANGEL (54%); THOMAS C SUTTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



856 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: C.D. and Bank Fund Yields Post Steeper Drop in Week

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
The declines in yields on certificates of deposit and bank money market accounts gained momentum in the seven days that ended yesterday, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, a publication that specializes in covering interest rates.
"The downturn will continue," said Robert K. Heady, The Monitor's publisher. He added that he expected cuts to continue into February, now that the prime lending rate has been cut by a full percentage point, to 6 1/2 percent, by most leading commercial banks. The prime rate serves as the benchmark rate for loans to many small businesses and consumers.
 
Widespread Cuts
 In the last week, the New York commercial banks cut yields on money market accounts by an average 23 basis points, to 3.88 percent; on three-month certificates by 28 basis points, to 3.76 percent, and on six-month certificates by 32 basis points, to 3.85. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
 At savings institutions in the New York area, yields were cut to 4.67 percent, down by 11 basis points, for money market accounts; to 4.52 percent, down by 20 basis points, for three-month certificates, and to 4.70 percent, also down by 20 basis points, for six-month certificates.
In the case of money market accounts and three-month certificates, the largest cuts were made by the Bank of New York, which lowered its yield by 52 basis points on its money market accounts and by 62 basis points on its three-month certificates.
 
Midlantic Moves Ahead
 Midlantic Banks Inc., based in New Jersey, was the leader in cutting the yield on six-month certificates, which it lowered by 75 basis points.
The Monitor, based in North Palm Beach, Fla., said the average yields at 20 large banks outside the New York area had been cut by 32 basis points, to 4.08 percent, on money market accounts, and by 26 points, to 4.18 percent, for six-month certificates.
In addition, The Monitor said its index for the week for regional banks outside the New York area was 4.34 percent for money market accounts and 4.37 percent for certificates of deposit.
By comparison, at the Treasury Department's weekly bill auction on Monday, the three-month bill was auctioned at an average discount rate of 3.75 percent, compared with 4.14 percent a week earlier, while the six-month bill averaged 3.85 percent, compared with 4.19 percent the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on December 24, 1991, by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D	New York	4.15	4.13	Los Angeles	4.37	4.33	Chicago	4.38	4.42	San Francisco	4.32	4.27	Philadelphia	4.35	4.37	Detroit	4.30	4.33	Boston	4.34	4.49	Houston	4.21	4.24	Dallas	4.42	4.25	Washington	4.59	4.83	Bank Rate Monitor Index* 4.34	4.37	 	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
 
"Bank Money Accounts"
Tables: "Regional Bank Rates"
 Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, Dec.18,1991. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

New York Area	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	Banco Popular	4.34	3.67	3.77	Bank of N.Y.	3.56	3.46	3.56	Bank of Tokyo Trust	3.88	3.50	3.35	Chase Manhattan	3.56	3.67	3.72	Chemical	3.82	3.39	3.48	Citibank	3.50	3.50	3.50	Conn. Natl Bank	4.18	4.18	4.39	EAB	3.77	3.82	3.87	First Fidelity (N.J.)	4.00	4.00	4.35	Fleet Bank	4.17	4.25	4.43	Manufacturers Hanover	3.56	3.67	3.61	Marine Midland	4.07	3.67	3.67	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	4.08	4.00	4.25	Nat'l Westminster	3.67	3.56	3.67	Republic Nat'l	4.08	4.08	4.08	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	American Savings	4.50	4.40	4.60	Anchor Savings	4.60	4.55	4.76	Apple Bank Savings	4.44	4.24	4.60	Astoria Federal	4.33	4.15	4.20	Bowery Savings	4.71	4.71	4.85	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	5.38	4.80	4.85	Crossland Savings	4.95	4.75	5.03	Dime Savings Bank	4.75	4.50	4.70	Dollar Dry Dock	4.71	4.60	4.81	Emigrant Savings	4.40	4.35	4.40	First Nationwide	4.45	4.10	4.15	Green Point Savings	4.70	N.O.	4.95	Howard Savings (N.J.)	4.75	4.80	5.10	Hudson City Bk (N.J.)	5.07	5.00	5.15	People's Bank (Conn.)	4.33	4.29	4.39	
Major Banks Outside N.Y.	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.		Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	Security Pacific (L.A.)	4.38	0.26	4.10	0.15	First National (Chicago)	3.98	0.26	3.98	0.26	Bank of Boston	4.33	0.26	4.44	0.36	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	4.34	0.00	4.55	0.00	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.81	0.27	3.45	0.57	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	4.35	0.15	3.95	0.20	NBD Bank (Detroit)	3.65	0.78	3.83	0.32	Union Bank (S.F.)	4.33	0.37	4.24	0.47	Fleet Bank of Mass.	4.18	0.00	4.45	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	4.34	0.26	4.00	0.30	Maryland Natl Bk	4.60	0.05	4.75	0.15	First Bank (Minnesota)	3.76	0.47	4.18	0.22	Meridian (Reading, Pa.)	3.78	0.67	4.40	0.20	Sovran (Richmond, Va.)	4.43	0.16	4.30	0.20	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	4.33	0.00	4.10	0.05	C & S (Atlanta)	4.09	0.25	4.12	0.36	Citibank, S.D.	4.37	0.10	5.17	0.11	Texas Commerce (Houston)	3.07	1.00	3.81	0.21	NCNB Tampa	4.00	0.25	4.05	0.25	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.45	0.91	3.65	0.90	
 
N.A. Rate not available N.O. Not offered
Source: Bank Rate Monitor
N. Palm Beach 33408

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); READING, PA, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); READING, PA, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; INTEREST (MONEY) INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (61%); AUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



857 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Laughter Greets Gifts For Neediest

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
After Santa left, they just hugged the red and green packages, courageously planning to save them until Christmas Day. But when Duane Ortega made the big bold move by opening his present on Monday, pandemonium erupted.
"Aiee! Aiee!" the 32 toddlers screeched in the East Harlem gymnasium. The wrapping paper seemed to moan before their relentless efforts. Four-year-old Vladimir Ramos, his face ablaze with wonder, pulled the cord on his new See N' Say. "I am a cow," it said. "I go moooooo." Then he jumped aside because Mark Moreno, 5, was coming by with his new yellow truck. Mark took a pit stop by Albert Ramierez, 3, who was staring blankly at a box containing an orange horse named "Pokey." 
 "That's Gumby's friend," he told him in Spanish.
The youngsters, who are part of the Children's Aid Society's Head Start program, are among the thousands of children who received Christmas and Hanukkah presents this year through the seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. "For the majority of these children who come from such very poor homes, these are the only gifts they'll get," said Dallas-Lee Dexter, the program's director. "We also give them coats, hats and gloves, but at this time of year few things are as essential as that toy or doll that lets them know they are not forgotten."
 
Fewer Toys This Year
 The Children's Aid Society said it has collected 15,000 gifts this year and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies said it will give away about 16,000 presents. Still, the agencies report that there are not enough to go around. "We had 31,000 requests for those 16,000 toys," said Jackie Ewbanks, who runs the federation's toy drive.
Reflecting the tough economic times, Marianne Chierchio of the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn said toy donations have fallen sharply this year. She said one company that in the past had provided enough gifts to fill several rooms gave barely enough this year to fill an office, and that a bank that traditionally collects hundreds of toys at its various branches got only four this year.
To try to make their supply come a little closer to demand, the charities said they buy gifts with money from the Neediest Cases. Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then the publisher of The New York Times, the Neediest Cases has enabled millions of people -- through two world wars, through the roaring 20's and the Great Depression, and through the booming 80's and the slumping 90's -- to find that best part of themselves and lend a helping hand to New York's sick, poor and disabled. Last year, at least 15,580 individuals and organizations contributed a record $4.4 million to the Neediest Cases.
The Times covers all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected is passed on to the seven charities. The money buys food for the hungry, homes for the homeless and clothing for those without clothes. It also helps provides holiday gifts for the city's poorest children.
 
A Mother's Smile
 Often, the presents provide as much relief to parents as joy to children. "My kids are asking every day 'Why isn't Santa Claus coming?' because the tree is empty of presents," Margaret Estremera explained Monday, as she was picking up presents from Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn.
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,205,967.47
Recorded yesterday . . . 66,350.00
 
Total . . . $2,272,317.47

GRAPHIC: Photo: Erica, 19 months old, was not keen on the idea of sitting on Santa's lap at the Head Start Christmas party on Monday. Five-year-old Diana had a more grown-up attitude on the matter. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS (93%); CHILDREN (89%); CHARITIES (87%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (72%); RELIGION (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); HANUKKAH (52%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



858 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Set A 2d Round Of Fare Rises

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Some of the biggest United States airlines confirmed yesterday that they were raising most domestic fares by 2 percent as of Jan. 3, the second round of price increases within a week.
Last Thursday, the airlines said they were raising their bargain advance-purchase fares, which require Saturday-night stay-overs, by $20 round trip. The increases are part of a strategy to stem the multibillion-dollar losses they have reported as a result of the Persian Gulf war and the recession. In the slowdown many carriers cut fares to stimulate travel. 
 "As you're well aware, the economy hasn't been kind to the airlines," said Jim Faulkner, spokesman for Northwest Airlines in Minneapolis. "All of us are looking at ways to make sure our prices reflect our true costs."
United Airlines initiated the latest fare increase, and disclosed it on Monday by inserting the new pricing structure into the computerized reservation system that enables travel agents to book tickets on all airlines. Northwest, American and Alaska Airlines followed suit.
Lynn Martenstein, a spokesman for Chicago-based United, said yesterday, "We are doing it because it reflects an adjustment of fare levels to more compensatory pricing."
With the increase, a full-fare Chicago-New York round-trip coach-class ticket, for example, will rise from $838 to $854. A 21-day advance purchase discount fare from Minneapolis to New York will go from $358 to $365.
At Alaska Airlines, a Seattle-based carrier that flies primarily to the West Coast, officials said they had been pondering a fare increase for several days and decided to match United's increase when they learned of it.
"Have you looked at the economic situation in the airline industry?" said Harry Lehr, the airline's vice president for planning. "That's why we're doing it. We need the money."
It was unclear when or whether other big airlines would match the latest increase, but there were indications that they would. At Houston-based Continental Airlines, which instigated the fare rises last week, a spokesman, Ned Walker, said the carrier was undecided, but a 2 percent increase "seems to make sense."
At Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines, a spokesman, Robert Harper, said a decision would be made later in the week. Officials at Trans World Airlines did not return telephone calls.
The airline industry lost a combined $5.9 billion in 1990 and 1991. Three of the weakest carriers financially, Eastern, Midway and Pan Am, perished in bankruptcy court this year. Continental has been operating under bankruptcy protection for much of 1991, and T.W.A. is expected to seek that status sometime next year as part of an arrangement with its lenders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIRLINES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); DESERT STORM (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



859 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Ho-Ho-Hum at Finer Stores, Too

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
A Christmas Eve walk through some of Manhattan's toniest shopsfound store owners still hoping for a Merry Christmas, but acknowledging that they were not having a watershed day.
And while some retailers maintained that business was strong, several said profits were flat to down from last year. Nearly all agreed that individual consumers were buying less. 
 At James Robinson Inc., the silver and antique jewelry dealer that has been on 57th Street since 1953, its owner, Edward Munves Jr., said business was flat this year. But, echoing some other luxury-goods sellers, he added that the real shock wave hit in 1990, when business fell about 15 percent.
"That was the year we lost Wall Street," said Mr. Munves, whose family started the store in 1912. "We lost a lot of lawyers and advertising people who we just did not see at Christmas."
Mr. Munves believes the 1990's will be different. "People should be saying this is normal. The 1980's were not normal," he concluded, aware that his company was not likely to match 1989, its superstar year, very soon.
Mr. Munves said that one thing that had helped his store was that people who bought silver and antique jewelry often felt they were acquiring something of long-term value. "They are changing one set of assets for another," he said.
Mr. Munves said that sales this year might end up even or slightly ahead of 1990. "But instead of buying a $700 place setting" to give as gifts, he said, customers now "are giving two or three pieces" that total $300.
Of course, there are winners in this recession, too. "We have a bankruptcy lawyer who has bought tremendously," Mr. Munves said, without divulging names. "There are always people making money in any economic downturn."
At E.A.T. Gourmet Foods, the restaurant and takeout store on upper Madison Avenue, Eli Zabar, whose family owns the Zabar's food store on Broadway and who started E.A.T. in 1973, said that for the first time he could remember, customers were asking for discounts.
"I can't remember ever seeing that before," Mr. Zabar said, as he watched his staff wrap the store's trademark extravagant gift baskets.
Roughly 90 percent of the gift baskets, which cost between $50 and $350, are bought by corporations. Most of those accounts cut back this year, according to Mr. Zabar. "Almost everybody is giving less," he said. "Even when they can afford it, the culture is anti-heavy buying."
Mr. Zabar said that six years ago, E.A.T. started a gift shop next door. He said that volume at the shop was up, in part because the store had shifted its focus from high-priced gifts like furniture priced at $300 to much less expensive items. Store executives now hope that buyers will buy several low-priced items, but that their cumulative bills will be higher.
Mr. Zabar said the move had succeeded and that volume was up. But he conceded that profits were flat. The labor costs of handling more small items is higher than for fewer more expensive items, he said.
 
Absence of the Wealthy
 Allen Milstein, who publishes The Fashion Report, an industry newsletter, said that store owners were "on prayer rugs, wearing them thin praying for customers." He estimated that business on 57th Street was off 20 percent to 25 percent from last year.
"The difference between this recession and the 1930's is that the Ginger Rogers and the Fred Astaires have stopped shopping," he said, referring to the very wealthy, who can afford to buy, but are not.
At jewelers like Harry Winston Inc. on Fifth Avenue, both the recession and the luxury-goods tax are hurting business, according to Ronald Winston, who runs the company.
Mr. Winston says that even those who can afford to buy are waiting until the tax on items over $10,000 is repealed. 'It's decimating the business," he said.
But for Harry Winston, the problem extends beyond the United States. Mr. Winston said that while business in Japan was great -- "A customer walked in recently and bought a $1 million necklace. I haven't see that in New York." -- the recession has hurt the jeweler in Europe.
"When America sneezes, Europe catches cold," he said, quickly correcting himself: "No it gets pneumonia."
 
Sales Per Customer
 At the Hermes fashion boutique on 57th Street, best known for its leather goods, Chrys Fisher, the president and chief executive, said that overall volume was up this year compared with 1990, though he gave no figures. But Mr. Fisher noted that sales per customer were down. Several retailing experts believe that sales in high-end stores may be off as much by 25 percent per customer.
Hermes not only carries $3,000 handbags, it has quietly adopted a strategy of offering lower-priced items too, like $35 bottles of cologne that permit customers to spend relatively little and take home a gift with the Hermes cachet.
If customers are catching on to such bargins, it is not only at Hermes. Diana Brainerd, a financial relations executive, noted that when she was shopping at Saks Fifth Avenue several days ago, the line for gift certificates seemed particularly long.
"Lots of the people were without shopping bags," she said. "I think they were giving gift certificates because they would rather have the money spent after Christmas, when people expect better sales."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The recession and growing fears about the economy have affected upscale retailers, too. Eli Zabar, whose E.A.T food shop supplies gift food baskets for a number of corporate customers, spoke of smaller orders and flat profits this Christmas as he inspected gift baskets being prepared for delivery. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CHRISTMAS; HOLIDAY TRADE; SALES CHRISTMAS (93%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FAST FOOD (78%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); 

PERSON: JAMES A ROBINSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



860 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: November Durable Goods Orders Up 1.2%

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
In a sign that some economists took as encouraging, new orders for big-ticket durable goods rose 1.2 percent in November, the second straight monthly rise, the Government said today. But other analysts cautioned that durables orders often swung wildly from month to month.
Still, the announcement by the Commerce Department surprised many analysts, both because the rise, to $124.7 billion, marked the first back-to-back increase since April and because many economists had forecast a drop of more than 1 percent. 
 New orders for durable goods -- items like cars, refrigerators and computers that are expected to last more than three years -- are a significant barometer of manufacturers' views of the future. An increase in orders can signal gains in both production and jobs.
Orders for military goods -- always a volatile statistic -- plummeted 38.9 percent last month after a 50.3 percent jump in October. Excluding the military area, durable goods orders increased 4.1 percent in November.
But another element of the report, unfilled orders, which is also considered a predictive indicator, fell last month. Some pessimistic analysts chose to stress the decline in backlogs, while others saw grounds for optimism in the higher orders figures.
"Over all, if you look at these numbers and the low, low interest rates, it looks like what we might be seeing here is the beginning of a turnaround," said Michael L. Penzer, vice president and senior economist at the BankAmerica Corporation in San Francisco.
Mr. Penzer said the most heartening figure was November shipments of nonmilitary goods, which rose eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $118.5 billion.
"That's very positive for fourth-quarter gross domestic product," he said, referring to the Government's measurement of goods and services produced within the nation's borders.
But the decline in unfilled orders, to $491.4 billion, was the third in three months. The decline could signal a reduction in production lines and jobs. Indeed, the Labor Department reported three weeks ago that manufacturers lost 33,000 jobs during the month and the Federal Reserve found that industrial production had fallen four-tenths of 1 percent.
"We know the economy is going to hell in a handbasket and this is more support for that," said Richard D. C. Trainer, chief economist of the Bank of Tokyo in New York. "As these unfilled orders continue to slide, it doesn't look good for future production and hiring."
On Monday, the Federal Reserve reported that consumer spending had risen by seven-tenths of 1 percent in November, even though income levels declined from October. Consumer spending is expected to be off this month from the usual high levels associated with the holiday season, one factor that prompted the Fed last week to slash interest rates boldly.
 
Revised October Figure
 November's 1.2 percent gain in orders for durable goods represented a $1.4 billion increase, compared with a revised 2.6 percent increase in October orders that had previously been reported as a 3 percent gain. In September, orders had dropped by 4.3 percent.
The latest figures showed an across-the-board increase in demand for most products, with the limited exception of instruments and stone, clay and glass products.
Shipments of durable goods, a coincident indicator, increased in November by seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $127.2 billion, reaching their highest level since October of last year.
Transportation equipment orders were up 3.9 percent last month after an 11.2 percent increase in October. A significant increase in aircraft orders made up for lackluster orders for new cars and for military ships and tanks.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods from June 1990 to Nov. 1991. (Source: Commerec Departnment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (66%); BAC (LSE) (66%); 8648 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (66%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (51%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); NEW ORDERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SHIPMENTS (73%); DEFENSE ORDERS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



861 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 56; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Edge Up in Light Trading

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Treasury bond market closed with slight gains yesterday, rebounding from a spate of selling early in the day.
Securities dealers said the sharp rise in bond prices that had occurred since the Federal Reserve's sharp cut in short-term rates last Friday was the catalyst for some selling yesterday by traders who wanted to lock in profits. 
 By 1 P.M., when most trading stopped in the American market, the 8 percent Treasury bonds due in 2021 were offered at 105 3/4, up by 2/32 point, to yield 7.51 percent. On Thursday, before the Fed's move, the bellwether 8 percent issue was offered at about 104, to yield 7.65 percent.
 
Some Early Selling
 The Commerce Department's report yesterday of a much stronger-than-expected 1.2 percent increase in orders for durable goods, items expected to last three years or more, spurred some early selling. Despite the gain, most of which reflected aircraft orders, analysts at Reid, Thunberg & Company, an advisory firm in Wilton, Conn., said, "The trend of the U.S. economy remains flat."
Because many traders and investors are absent during the holiday season, analysts do not expect much movement in bond prices for the next several trading sessions.
"I expect we will mark time for a while and see what Congress does," said one trader whose firm does not allow public comment. He said continued increases in bond prices and declines in yields would be most likely if Congress refrained from any new spending or tax cuts.
Inaction by Congress would help the bond market, the trader added, because it would reduce the chances of a brisk economic recovery that would revive credit demands and put upward pressure on rates.
Although the fear of inflation and the volatile prices of long-term bonds have kept their yields from declining as much as short-term interest rates in the last few years, investors are under increasing pressure to buy bonds rather than shorter-term notes if they want to keep earning the interest rates to which they became accustomed during the 1980's.
Yields on intermediate-term notes have now fallen below the rates assumed in many corporate and government pension plans. The new 6 1/8 percent Treasury notes due in five years, for example, were offered yesterday at 100 17/32 , unchanged on the day, to yield 6 percent. At last week's auction, the five-year issue sold with an average yield of 6.24 percent, down from about 7 3/4 percent for comparable issues a year ago.
In the short-term market, rates rose modestly, as banks and securities dealers prepared for the turmoil in financial markets that often occurs in the last days of the year.
Traders do not expect overnight bank loans to trade at the same 100 percent rate reached on last Dec. 26, but they expect the abnormal flows of money around the end of the year could cause overnight bank loans in the Federal funds market to trade around 13 percent on Dec. 31 and on Jan. 1.
The rate is high enough temporarily to keep interest rates on securities and deposits due in one month higher than those due in three months or more. For example, one-month Eurodollar deposits were offered yesterday at 5 percent, while three-month deposits were 4 1/2 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields on selected Treasury securities (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (94%); BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (68%); AIRCRAFT MFG (68%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



862 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 57; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises in Slow Day And Gold Falls in New York

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday in a quiet pre-Christmas session as the market took its cues from a Government report on business orders to factories.
Gold prices slipped on the Commodity Exchange in New York, with gold for current delivery falling 20 cents, to $359.10 an ounce. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid of $359.25 an ounce, down 25 cents. 
 Dealers said the dollar got support from the Commerce Department's report that factory orders for durable goods rose 1.2 percent in November. Along with a revised 2.6 percent advance for October, it was the first two-month rise since the spring.
The report raised hopes that the economy might be getting stronger and that further interest-rate cuts would not be needed. Higher American interest rates make dollar-denominated investments more attractive and bolster the dollar.
Simon Fischer, vice president of foreign exchange at ABN-Amro Bank in New York, said dealers had expected a decline in the durable goods numbers.
Dollar traders were particularly encouraged that orders for nonmilitary capital goods, excluding aircraft, were up 1.1 percent.
The dollar also got support from Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average rose 28.40 points yesterday on top of a gain of 88.10 on Monday.
The dollar also closed marginally higher in trading overseas. In London, the British pound fell to $1.8760, from $1.8775 late on Monday. In New York, sterling fetched $1.8735, less expensive than late Monday's $1.8820.
The Japanese yen fell against the dollar in Europe and New York. The dollar settled in London at 127.30 yen and in New York at 127.55 yen, higher than Monday's 126.65 yen.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 127.25 yen, down 1.07 from Friday's close. The Tokyo market was closed on Monday for a holiday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday, included: 1.5205 German marks, up from 1.5130; 5.1995 French francs, up from 5.1715; 1.3490 Swiss francs, up from 1.3437; 1,152.00 Italian lire, up from 1,147.00, and 1.16055 Canadian dollars, up from 1.15785.
In London, gold was quoted at a late bid of $359.80 an ounce, up from $359.40 late on Monday. In Zurich, gold rose 30 cents, to a closing bid of $359.80. Overnight in Hong Kong, gold fell 12 cents, to $359.65.
Silver gained. On the Commodity Exchange, it rose to $3.903 an ounce, from $3.899 late on Monday. In London, silver rose 2 cents, to $3.91.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); ABO (ASX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); GERMAN MARK (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



863 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 57; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Cattle Prices Extend Rally; Wheat Up on Export Hopes

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 24

 BODY:
A surge in the stock market sparked optimism for a turnaround in the economy and sent cattle prices soaring today in a shortened session. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 28.40 points, to 3,050.98, after an 88-point leap on Monday.
Meanwhile, recent declines in the dollar prompted hopes for a revival of the wheat export business, sending prices to their highs for the current futures contracts. 
 On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, cattle futures continued a rally that started on Monday, as traders were wary of going into the Christmas holiday on the short side of the market.
Beef-packing companies have been buying cattle only sporadically in the last two weeks, instead preferring to curtail operating hours and trim beef production, analysts said.
But the slow buying may have caught them short of cattle for pending production, which could prompt greater sales activity at higher prices in the primary cattle feeding areas of the Plains states.
Live cattle futures for February delivery jumped 1.025 cent, to 70.900 cents a pound.
At the Chicago Board of Trade, prices for soft red winter wheat extended a rally. Traders banked on the theory that the recent skid in the value of the dollar would make wheat more attractive to foreign buyers.
Tight wheat supplies in American bins further fueled the gains, traders said.
"The last time we had a supply situation in wheat as tight as it is now was in 1973 when prices went to more than $6.00," a grain trader said.
Wheat for March delivery rose 2.25 cents, to $4.00 3/4 a bushel, but earlier in the session set a contract high of $4.01.
Trading on both exchanges ended at 1 P.M., Eastern time, for the Christmas holiday and will return to normal hours on Friday.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, energy futures closed mixed in an abbreviated session.
February crude oil futures gained 19 cents to close at $18.97 a barrel. January unleaded contracts closed 0.94 cent higher, at 53.93 cents a gallon, while January heating oil contracts slipped 0.05 cent, to 51.79 cents, erasing early gains in late activity. The market also closed at 1 P.M., Eastern time.
The spot December gold contract fell 20 cents, to $359.10 an ounce, on the Comex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; CATTLE; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (93%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BEEF (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BONDS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); HEATING OIL (76%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



864 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: New Tradition For Kwanzaa: Marketing, American Style

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
THE wind whistled Christmas as it toyed with scores of shoppers in Harlem who braved low temperatures and high prices to carry out a modern holiday ritual of giving and getting. There were expensive video games to buy, dolls to overdress and lines to wait in to see a department store Santa.
But at the same time in Harlem, as in thousands of other American neighborhoods in which blacks live, another wind blows strong this yuletide season. It is Kwanzaa, an elegantly African and aggressively American holiday of affirmation. 
 For 25 years blacks, cautiously and few in the beginning, have been looking to Kwanzaa to help them rededicate themselves to their teachings, culture and traditions. During Kwanzaa, eggnog gives way to ginger beer; caroling finds harmony with African chants, and Christmas stockings dangle next to the royal designs of West African kente cloth.
"It's not a substitute for Christmas," said Dereca Blackmon, a young black film maker who is making a Kwanzaa documentary. "It is not a substitute for anything. It's a movement to something."
Kwanzaa was established in 1966 by Dr. Maulana Karenga, now chairman of the black studies department at California State University at Long Beach. In formulating the holiday, he drew on themes he found to be common in many celebrations and rites in African societies.
Starting on the day after Christmas and ending on the first day of the new year, Kwanzaa, which is an East African word meaning "the first fruits of the harvest," is greeted by millions of blacks as a time for reflection, rejoicing and appreciation. And particularly in recent years, it has also become a time for Kwanzaa business.
Earlier this month, 30,000 people attended a three-day, noon-to-midnight Kwanzaa Holiday Expo '91 at Manhattan Community College that included 200 black vendors. Two floors of the college were transformed into a bustling African bazaar. The air was filled with an audio rainbow of African, African-American and Caribbean music and was thick with the spicy scents of foods for sale. Many of these foods were of the down-home Southern variety, but some were dishes from Africa and the Caribbean.
But it was the merchandise -- all with a decidedly Afrocentric flair -- that moved the throngs of people through a maze of stalls and stands. Products at the expo were exhibited or sold under names like Unity Gallery, In the Black Products and Ujamaa Now. A Hoboken, N.J., coffee company with new African partners has just introduced a Kwanzaa blend that proudly proclaims itself "100 percent African coffee." And Zahmu, a Philadelphia singer-songwriter recently released a single record titled "It's Kwanzaa Time."
"Black people are becoming more educated about themselves," said Yusuf Muhammad, who was doing a brisk business at the fair, marketing African-print neckties and casual clothing under the name Kareem Enterprises. "They want things that say something positive about their heritage." Throughout the New York City, at nearly every stand, shop and storefront in which there is black commerce, there are products aimed at the black consciousness and pocketbook.
Still a far cry from anything approaching the commercialism that grips much of Christmas, the marketing of Kwanzaa has pleased some people who say the holiday is getting wider exposure. The giving of modest gifts, like ethnic toys, books by or about blacks and anything in kente cloth, is as much a part of the holiday's ritual as the feast on the eve its final day.
But it has not pleased everyone.
A black woman with an 8-year-old daughter called in recently to WLIB radio's morning talk show that broadcasts live from the Apollo Theater to voice the uneasiness she was feeling about what she described as Kwanzaa's "creeping commercialism."
The woman, who did not give her name, said she believed too much emphasis was being placed on its "buying aspect."
"A lot of us left the whole Christmas vibration because of that buying," the woman said.
Dr. Karenga, the founder of the holiday, who was a guest on the show, told the woman that she posed a "delicate question." But, he said, he didn't believe the economics generated by the holiday were overshadowing its cultural contributions. "One of the major problems we had is pretending we're not in America," he said.
Dr. Karenga, who was in Manhattan as a guest of the Expo '91 promoters, said that commercialism was as American as the Fourth of July and that blacks should not shrink from being entrepeneurs, even if it meant producing kente-cloth wrapping paper and Kwanzaa greeting cards. One of the principles of Kwanzaa is to encourage what is known as ujamaa, or cooperative economics; in other words, blacks working together to create and maintain their own stores and shops for the good of the entire community.
"I don't think blacks are afraid of the commercialization of Kwanzaa so much as the co-opting of Kwanzaa," said Eric V. Copage, an editor of The New York Times Magazine and the author of "Kwanzaa: An African-American Celebration of Culture and Cooking," recently published by Morrow.
Mr. Copage said that blacks might have a reason to be fearful, too, "considering the omnivorous nature of capitalism and the fact that few blacks have their hands on the throttle of that engine."
Just how many blacks actually celebrate the holiday is hard to determine. But by most estimates it poses a tempting market. Cedric McClester, the author of "Kwanzaa: Everything You Always Wanted to Know but Didn't Know Where to Ask" (Gumbs & Thomas, 1985), wrote that more than 13 million Americans observed Kwanzaa in 1984, a figure that includes people who celebrate Kwanzaa as well as Christmas. Current numbers are difficult to come by.
But there is anecdotal evidence that an increasing number of blacks in the United States, and even some abroad, are either participating in Kwanzaa or giving it an approving nod. Dr. Karenga, who travels throughout much of the United States, said he has not visited a city that does not hold a Kwanzaa celebration of some kind.
In New York, the Mayor's Office of African-American and Caribbean Affairs announced a citywide schedule of events as early as Nov. 5. Already there have been a special concert of traditional African music, an education forum on multiculturalism and an museum exhibition of African handicrafts in honor of the holiday. A series of Taste of Kwanzaa food celebrations took place in all five boroughs.
Still to come are numerous Kwanzaa observances scheduled in homes, churches and civic centers this week and next. At the American Museum of Natural History, a three-day Kwanzaa festival begins on Friday, complete with a re-created African village and authentic African foods.
On Monday, the museum's Hall of Ocean Life will be the scene of the Kwanzaa 25th Anniversary Gala Celebration, from 7 to 11 P.M. (tickets, $100; (212) 219-4510) featuring dancers, a magician and a dinner with foods from northern and southern Africa. The kente-print-trimmed invitation suggests "Afrocentric attire preferred, or black tie."
Mr. McClester has helped produce several of New York's largest Kwanzaa celebrations, including the Expo '91, through the New York Urban Coalition, for which he is a spokesman. "I have consciously tried to market the holiday," he said. "Kwanzaa needed to be sold. It was in the confines of a few nationalists."
His latest contribution is the creation of Nia Umoja, a kindly, Afrocentric Santa Claus figure who gives youngsters not only gifts but direction as well. "It is ludicrous to just do Santa in blackface when there are black characters children can relate to," he said.
But more important than Santa substitutes, market plans and black vendor shows, Mr. McClester said, are the Nguzo Saba, which are the seven principles of the holiday, the essence of Kwanzaa.
For each of the celebration's seven days, a candle is lighted and placed in an African-styled holder called a kinara. Each candle represents a principle that gives focus to Kwanzaa and, according to some of its observants, gives blacks a code for survival.
Like the word Kwanzaa itself, the principles all have Swahili names: umoja (unity); kujichagulia (self-determination);, ujima (collective work and responsibility); ujamaa (cooperative economics); nia (purpose); kuumba (creativity), and imani (faith).
"Kwanzaa is a philosophy for life," said Dr. Karenga. "It is a value system."
Zahmu, a Philadelphia singer-songwriter who also works as a computer trainer, said he read a book by Dr. Karenga about Kwanzaa and found himself, in almost a dreamlike state, setting the holiday's spirit to music.
With an investment of $3,000 of his own money he has produced 500 copies of the single "It's Kwanzaa Time." Zahmu's cheery lyrics have combined to help make the song something of a hit in black bookstores in Philadelphia and some inner city schools in the area.
"Nguzo Saba, they are the principles to be our guide," he sings to a pulsating urban beat, "a formula for families to keep the children strong, to build a mighty nation, take us where we belong."
"What is clear is that Kwanzaa is an irresistible holiday," said Kinshasha Holman Conwill, director of the Studio Museum in Harlem, which held its annual pre-Kwanzaa celebration and workshop last week with African storytellers and artisans.
"It is more than an alternative," she said. "It is central to many people and to their holiday celebration. And even for those who do not consciously celebrate it, it is an important cultural touchstone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nia Umoja is an Afrocentric Santa figure who gives children direction as well as gifts. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: KWANZAA (CELEBRATION); FESTIVALS; BLACKS (IN US) KWANZAA (94%); CHRISTMAS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); MUSIC (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); FESTIVALS (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); COFFEE (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); SONG WRITING (61%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



865 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: (Christmas) Greetings From the President of the United States

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN, N.Y.

 BODY:
WHITE HOUSE followers have never been short of material, from handwritten notes to taped conversations to the tell-all memoirs of erstwhile Presidential confidants.
But Presidential Christmas cards have rarely been seen by more than their 150,000 or so recipients and, of course, their families and friends. Now Presidential holiday sentiments are open to public view at an exhibit of official White House Christmas cards, dating from 1961 to 1990, at Sunnyside, the historic home of Washington Irving here in Tarrytown. The exhibit is sponsored by Historic Hudson Valley, a preservation association. 
 "What's interesting about these cards is that they reflect what else was going on at the White House at the time," said James Archer Abbott, assistant curator of the Historic Hudson Valley group, at a recent lecture on Presidential Christmas cards.
For instance, the Christmas card sent by Ronald and Nancy Reagan in 1981 may shed light on the web of power in that Administration. The card, a reproduction of a painting by Jamie Wyeth, commissioned by the Reagans, was a night scene of the White House. The only light burning in the Presidential mansion is in Mrs. Reagan's dressing room.
In other years, Mrs. Reagan emulated Mrs. Kennedy's choice of cards showing White House rooms that illustrated the Administration's restoration efforts.
Mrs. Kennedy's influence on Mrs. Reagan extended beyond her choice in Christmas cards, Mr. Abbott said. "When Mrs. Reagan asked who did this or who bought that piece of furniture, if the answer was Mrs. Kennedy, she always wanted to do it the same way," he said.
As much as the Reagans paid homage to the Kennedy style, the Nixons did not. "The Nixons were responsible for dismantling most of what Mrs. Kennedy had done with the White House," Mr. Abbott said. "All they needed was to be told that something was done by Mrs. Kennedy and they did just the opposite."
The Christmas cards of Richard and Pat Nixon were also a departure from those of previous Democratic Administrations. They sent what might have been the most austere cards in White House history.Instead of using the snow scenes tranquil landscapes favored by the preceding Johnson Administration, the Nixons used Presidential portraits from the White House art collection, grandly presented with engraved gold overlays, in a cardboard folder.
"It seems odd to have a somber-looking Lincoln wishing you a very merry Christmas," Mr. Abbott said. The Nixons didn't sign their cards, but used a gold seal that read, "The President and Mrs. Nixon, Christmas, 1970." The three Republican Presidents since the Nixons followed that style; Democratic Presidents and wives used full names cards.
President Nixon also broke with tradition by mailing his cards in faux-velvet envelopes; the standard envelope had been plain white with a gold Presidential seal. "The velvet envelopes disappeared along with Mr. Nixon," Mr. Abbott said.
Throughout history, all Presidents sent out informal Christmas greetings of some kind. It wasn't until the Eisenhower Administration that the official White House Christmas card appeared. The cards were originally intended to be sent to White House staff members but are now sent to more 9,000 people. A smaller card goes to more than 160,000 friends and supporters of the President.
At first, Dwight D. Eisenhower included an informal photograph of himself and his wife, Mamie, sitting on the South Lawn of the White House. Later, President Eisenhower, who painted as a hobby, started to send reproductions of his own watercolors depicting favorite scenes in Europe and Colorado.
The first card sent by President John F. Kennedy and Mrs. Kennedy showed ducks swimming across the White House pond, symbolizing that for the first time in 50 years, young children were in the White House. The ducks belonged to their daughter, Caroline.
Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter's cards were reflective of their informal style. Their first Christmas card was a simple pen-and-ink drawing of the White House.
Later Carter cards focused on nostalgic 19th-century scenes, which were also popular with Gerald and Betty Ford. "This was no doubt an attempt to take people's minds off the recession and difficult economic times during that period," Mr. Abbott said.
The cards sent by Lyndon and Lady Bird Johnson were usually scenes with two little girls -- representing their daughters, Lynda and Luci -- frolicking in the snow with their dogs. One card was a night scene of the White House decked in holiday greenery as guests arrived for a Christmas party. "They represented the Johnson White House as the center of Texas hospitality, which was the case not only at Christmas but during their entire Administration," Mr. Abbott said.
On their cards, the Johnsons also wrote a long greeting, effusive with warm wishes for the holiday season. Their last card included a postscript on their Administration and their regret over its conclusion. "It expressed their sadness about leaving the White House," said Mr. Abbott. "They wanted people to know that they did their best and joined the rest of the country in wishing for a peaceful new year. It was a nice way to go out."
George and Barbara Bush's cards have all been upbeat in tone. Their 1991 card features the most festive room in the White House, the Yellow Oval Room. This jewel-like room, with gilded furnishings and bright yellow wallpaper, is in the family's living area and is reserved for the most celebratory occasions. The Bushes' previous cards included a view of the decorated South Portico of the White House in 1989 and the Oval Office complete with Christmas tree and presents in 1990.
The Christmas card exhibit will be on display at Sunnyside, on West Sunnyside Lane, Tarrytown, through Dec. 31. Admission is $3. The cards come from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. Nash Castro. Mr. Castro is a director of the White House Historical Association and a trustee of Historic Hudson Valley.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Reagans' 1983 card included the redecorated Green Room.; The Kennedys' 1963 card also showed the Green Room.; Washington was the Nixons' choice. (Photographs courtesy Historic Hudson Valley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUNNYSIDE (IRVINGTON, NY)

ORGANIZATION: SUNNYSIDE (IRVINGTON, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS CARDS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); WHITE HOUSE (WASHINGTON, DC) ; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) CHRISTMAS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ART COLLECTING (74%); 

PERSON: EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969); NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63); CARTER, JIMMY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON ; VIZARD, MARY MCALEER RONALD REAGAN (92%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



866 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
New Hat for Wenders: Daffy and Lighthearted

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
When it comes to making movies, Wim Wenders is not your average wild and crazy guy. Antic fun for its own sake is not something for which he is known. The German-born director's more recent films ("Wings of Desire," "Paris, Texas," "Hammett") have been schematic and dour, with hard surfaces encasing centers as soft as chocolate-covered cherries.
For much of its nearly three-hour running time, "Until the End of the World" is something else, a daffy, eccentric road movie that pursues its own inscrutable lighthearted logic through 15 cities in 8 countries on 4 continents. 
 "Until the End of the World" has less to do with Mr. Wenders's own early road movies, "Alice in the Cities" and "Kings of the Road," than it does with the kind of elegantly slap-dash improvisations that Jean-Luc Godard once made with (and for) the incomparable Anna Karina. Though it is set in 1999, the movie looks like a mint-condition artifact of the 1960's.
As the film opens, a narrator informs us that an Indian nuclear satellite has swung out of orbit and threatens to crash to earth to destroy all life. The rest of the world is in a panic but, the narrator goes on, "Claire couldn't care less."
Claire (Solveig Dommartin), who sometimes wears a black wig that emphasizes her resemblance to the young Anna Karina, is waking up in a strange place, as has been her habit of late, this time at a chicly decadent party in Venice. On the drive back to Paris, Claire becomes the willing bag lady for a pair of loutish but gentle thieves who have just robbed a bank in Nice.
She agrees to transport the loot to Paris in exchange for a one-third cut. She then picks up Sam Farber (William Hurt), an American on the run, though from whom or what Claire doesn't know. Again she couldn't care less. She's attracted to Sam for his sad eyes and his taste in music, an audio tape of songs sung by pygmy children in Cameroon.
Claire's patience is tried when Sam makes off with a large part of her money. She tells her lover, Gene (Sam Neill), a novelist based in Paris and a man whose patience is inexhaustible, that she's going after Sam.
In this fashion the chase begins: Sam, followed by Claire, followed by a bounty hunter (Sam is said to be involved in industrial espionage), a private detective, the bank robbers and Gene, who wants to protect Claire and who, in passing, provides the film's narration. Money for travel arrangements never seems to be a problem. By 1999, the recession is clearly over.
The trail leads from Paris to Lisbon, Berlin, Moscow, Beijing, Tokyo and San Francisco. It finally ends with all the characters in the Australian outback, where what amounts to another movie begins. This one involves Sam's father, Henry (Max von Sydow), a brilliant scientist, and Sam's blind mother, Edith (Jeanne Moreau).
In his underground laboratory, Henry has been perfecting a camera that will allow the blind to see. It records the impulses of a brain when it contemplates an image, then feeds those impulses into the brain of the blind person, providing the equivalent to sight. More than that, though, it's a device for "sucking out the dreams" of almost anybody.
It is one of Mr. Wenders's more comic conceits that Claire and the others who participate in the doctor's experiments quickly become dangerously addicted to the taped images of their dreams. They lie listlessly about the outback all day, not eating or tending to fundamental hygiene. Instead they either dream of dreams or watch those dreams on portable video monitors.
Each addict isolates himself from the others. It's the video age as a real-life nightmare. Time and the world of commonplace responsibilities have come to a halt. Only Gene continues to believe "in the magic and the healing power of the word."
There's much more to the movie, not all of it logical, much of it absurd and some of it (the last sequence, for example) funnier than even Mr. Wenders may know. The film's center is characteristically squashy.
What is appealing about "Until the End of the World" is its looseness. It appears to be composed of musiclike riffs, and with the exception of Mr. von Sydow and Miss Moreau, nobody seems to take it too seriously until the name of Greenpeace is mentioned. As often happens with Mr. Wenders, it's not always possible to tell whether he knows when he's gone over the edge.
The members of the cast are attractive and, above all, game. Shooting the film in so many far-flung locations in such a short time must have been its own nightmare. The futuristic gadgetry is kept modest in scale so the actors never have to battle the special effects.
"Until the End of the World" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has some vulgar language.
 
Until the End of the World
 
Directed by Wim Wenders; screenplay by Mr. Wenders and Peter Carey, based on an original idea by Mr. Wenders and Solveig Dommartin; director of photography, Robby Muller; edited by Peter Przygodda; music by Graeme Revell; production designers, Thierry Flamand and Sally Campell; produced by Jonathan Taplin and Anatole Dauman; released by Warner Brothers. At the Festival, Fifth Avenue and 57th Street. Running time: 157 minutes. This film is rated R.
 
Sam Farber . . . William Hurt
Claire Tourneur . . . Solveig Dommartin
Eugene Fitzpatrick . . . Sam Neill
Dr. Farber . . . Max von Sydow
Edith Farber . . . Jeanne Moreau
Philip Winter . . . Rudiger Vogler
Burt . . . Ernie Dingo
Chico . . . Chick Ortega
Raymond . . . Eddy Mitchell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: UNTIL THE END OF THE WORLD (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (56%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); FRANCE (58%); TEXAS, USA (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (89%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); ESPIONAGE (65%); ROBBERY (62%); BANK ROBBERY (62%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT; WENDERS, WIM WILHELM 'WIM' WENDERS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



867 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Christmas Harvest

 BODY:
At most of his stops on this cold morning, the driver, named Lex, picks up bread. The best comes from the Union Square Cafe -- sourdough rye, the kind with thick crust and big holes, still squeezably fresh. A place called Michael's Muffins and the new Au Bon Pain outlet in the Port Authority Bus Terminal offer sweeter items. Muffins, croissants and fruit pastries ought to bring class and taste to the humblest homeless shelter's coffee urn.
Upstate farmers finished reaping their crops weeks ago, but the big season for City Harvest hit its peak this week. The nonprofit group's seven trucks ply daily routes on New York City streets, picking up leftovers from restaurants, corporate cafeterias, caterers, fashion shoots and movie locations -- anywhere a host might overestimate appetites. City Harvest distributes these gleanings to soup kitchens, shelters, food pantries. 
 City Harvest is a good idea, as worthy as it is simple, and it bears continuing witness to two disturbing facts: A shocking number of people go hungry in the city each day, even as a shocking amount of food goes to waste.
This service, in operation since 1982 and supported mostly by private financial contributions, collects and distributes more than 10,000 pounds of food daily, or nearly four million pounds a year. Yet it has no warehouse. More than 100 receiving agencies easily consume all that the trucks bring each day. When 50,000 pounds of potatoes arrived from Maine, City Harvest gave them all away in hours.
Toward noon, the truck pulls up before the Gustavus Adolphus Lutheran Church in Chelsea. In the social room, volunteers are stringing Christmas lights above long tables set for the noon meal. Lex enters, a huge sack of bread slung Santa-like over his back, to warm greetings from a minister and a director of the community dinner program. In the back of the truck the load of bread looked massive. In this room it looks small indeed: 120 people are expected for dinner.
City Harvest's managers believe the need can be matched by a so-far untapped supply of leftovers. They had no trouble signing up the 260 regular commercial clients whose bounty now fills their trucks, along with canned goods collected by schoolchildren and other groups. The list continues to grow despite the recession.
These weeks are the busiest, as office parties and holiday feasting yield up uneaten hors d'oeuvres, cold cuts and baked goods. Hunger, however, takes no holiday; and every day, throughout the year, City Harvest offers the people who need it most a taste of Christmas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITY HARVEST (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: CITY HARVEST (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; EDITORIALS; FOOD FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); CATERING SERVICES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); CHILDREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



868 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Checking It Twice

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB; Anna Quindlen is on vacation.

 BODY:
It turns out that the sweat socks President Bush bought on his recent shopping spree weren't Christmas gifts for Barbara Bush. Mr. and Mrs. Bush have a longstanding policy of not exchanging Christmas presents.
"They have everything they need, and anything they want they can get," explained Anna Perez, the First Lady's spokeswoman. 
 I, too, am blessed with everything I need. So I don't want any gifts. But my wife says I ought to give "gifts" in my column "to those less fortunate who make mistakes."
"And don't just think your usual way," she continues, warming to the task. "Go beyond male marginalia -- a little of this and that. Escape from the prison you males call reality. Make a wish list. Give things leaders should have but don't because of their narrow sense of realism and lack of imagination and courage."
"You don't know what you're talking about," I say. "Your political ideas could only be comforting to Martians."
"Well, it might be that my ideas will get as much reaction as any of the foreign policy columns you write," she insists, bordering on total irrationality.
"You don't know what you're talking about," I say, suspecting she didn't hear this point a moment ago. "I'll lose all my credibility and effectiveness. (Pause.) But O.K., O.K., if you promise never to ask me again, I'll use my first Christmas column, at the end of my first year in this job, to present your list of miracle gifts."
What follow are my wife's gifts plus my commentary in parentheses:
To scientists and economists: the know-how and political backing to plug up the holes in the ozone layer so we don't burn up from ultraviolet rays, and to save the rain forests so we can continue to breathe. No other gifts will mean very much unless this is done, and soon. (I just knew you'd start out with something vaguely reasonable.)
To American automotive executives: the knowledge to make cars as good as Japan's. And part of making a better car is tying executive salaries to profits. If they don't make any profit, they don't get paid so much, or they even get fired. (You're joking. They'll lay off every plant worker before they take big pay cuts.)
To U.S. legislators: the guts to flat-out ban all handguns and semiautomatic weapons. Every moron knows there is no constitutional right to have these weapons. Every moron knows a ban will save lives. Anyone who stands in the way of a ban should fry under the ozone hole. (Most politicians will choose the ozone penalty.)
To all American leaders: the realization that American children are being lost in a tragically inadequate education system, and the dedication to make fixing the system a major national priority. The decline in the ability to read, write, speak, compute and function in the sciences is a national crime. (All right, you've got a point here, but you can't do much without first restoring the American family, fighting teachers' unions, etc., etc.)
To black American leaders: the good sense to stop abstract battles about "rights" and start concentrating on doing something about community safety, education, teen-age pregnancy and the like -- as a lot of blacks are trying to do in their own neighborhoods. (Not likely.)
To their white counterparts: the conscience to confront growing prejudice against blacks and other minorities, and the courage -- despite the political winds -- to help those who need help. (Also fat chance.)
To all who would ban abortion: the decency to remove themselves from other peoples' bodies and beliefs. (They'll put a contract out on you for that one.)
"Look, I'm running out of space," I say.
"Well, I've got more . . . Teaching English as the first and must language, using old army bases for the homeless, a cure for AIDS . . ."
"You've had it," I say.
"The kids have some ideas for gifts too," she says.
"They don't know what they're talking about either," say I, recovering my columnist's voice. "And besides, I've had enough of these Christmas miracles."
"The point is they're not miracles," she says. "The problem is you guys just think they are. Barbara Bush should give George Bush . . . Wait, I'm not finished . . ."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; CHRISTMAS GIFTS; NEW YEAR CHRISTMAS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H BARBARA BUSH (92%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1991



869 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Troops Reinforced as Civil Unrest Grows

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
The military Government of Myanmar, alarmed by rebel attacks within 50 miles of the capital and large anti-Government demonstrations by students in two cities, is reinforcing troops in several regions to counter widening civil unrest, according to Administration officials and independent experts on the country, formerly Burma.
Neighboring Bangladesh put its frontier forces on high alert today after Burmese troops attacked a Bangladesh Army base, killing at least one soldier, the Bangladesh Government reported. 
 The movement of Burmese troops comes amid reports that Gen. Saw Maung, the leader of the ruling State Law and Order Restoration Council, may be ill and under pressure from within the junta or from Gen. Ne Win, who ran the country for more than a quarter of a century and is still a power behind the scenes. Foreigners returning from Yangon, formerly Rangoon, have reported that General Saw Maung has suffered some form of breakdown.
Foreign Minister Raul Manglapus of the Philippines said that when he went to Myanmar in early December on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, he was told that he could not meet General Saw Maung because the junta leader was undergoing surgery.
 
At Religious Festival
 On Saturday, General Saw Maung appeared on Burmese television attending a religious festival in the company of the head of military intelligence, Maj. Gen. Khin Nyunt, whom many consider to be the closest to General Ne Win and the real power in the junta. But General Saw Maung did not speak, and several who saw the program said that it was difficult to make a judgment about his health. Burmese exiles said that the film might have been an old one.
Mr. Manglapus told reporters in Bangkok after his visit that Burmese generals seemed obsessed by fears of "Nuremberg-type trials" for their suppression of a democracy movement in 1988. In 1990, after national elections were won by the National League for Democracy, the military refused to hand over power. Mr. Manglapus said that the generals told him that a civilian government might bring them to court.
There have been reports that General Saw Maung has been troubled by the repeated crackdowns, the isolation to which Mynamar has been subjected internationally and warnings from the few remaining nations giving aid that the junta must improve its record on civil rights.
The most recent such warning came last week from Japan. South Korea is reported to be withholding about $22 million in development projects.The United States has cut all aid links to the Burmese Government.
 
Attacks by Karen Guerrillas
 Josef Silverstein, a Rutgers University historian and expert on Myanmar's ethnic minorities, most of whom have been in rebellion for four decades, said that attacks led by ethnic Karen guerrillas in late November and early December in the Irrawaddy Delta between Yangon and Moulmein were "a major shock" to the military Government, which reported killing more than 570 rebels, indicating large confrontations. The rebels said they killed 500 troops.
"The attacks were organized by Karens, but what came as a surprise was that that Burmans and Arakanese and Mons also joined in against the army," Professor Silverstein said, referring to other ethnic groups in Myanmar. "It took the army by surprise. The military has been particularly vicious since then."
Mr. Silverstein said that the Karens and armed student groups claimed to be moving small units around the country. Students were also active in mounting demonstrations in Yangon and in Mandalay on Dec. 10, the day on which the National League for Democracy's leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, would have received her Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo. She has been under house arrest since July 1989.
Administration officials believe that the recent movement of Burmese troops to the Arakan area near Bangladesh is precautionary. David I. Steinberg, a Georgetown University specialist on Burma, said that the Bangladesh-Burmese border has always been a sensitive one for Burmese governments because the Arakan region has a large Muslim population that has always been thought of as being outside the national mainstream.
 
Many Cross Borders
 Many Bengalis crossed into Burma over the last half century and Arakanese have from time to time fled into East Bengal, now Bangladesh.
The Burmese Army is thus facing Karens in the east and south, Arakanese in the west and Kachin rebels in the northeast along the border with China.

GRAPHIC: Map of Myanamar highlighting Mandalay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MYANMAR; BANGLADESH MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (58%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HISTORY (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNICITY (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (53%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992



870 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Without Presidency to Shoot For, Cuomo Takes Aim at Republicans

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 24

 BODY:
In the four days since he announced that he would not run for President, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo seems to have sharpened the vitriol he directs at the Republicans who control the New York State Senate, whom he depicted as forcing him to renounce a presidential candidacy because they would not agree with him on a solution to state's budget woes.
The Governor has stepped up warnings that he will use his veto power to be a player over the coming months in state lawmakers' reapportionment of both their own districts and those of the New York Congressional delegation. 
 And with a view towards next fall's legislative elections, he has employed unusually ominous language to condemn the Senate Republicans for, in his description, their failure to cooperate in mapping out a 15-month plan for solving New York's considerable budget ills.
 
Solution Elusive
 "If they don't do it, they're dead politically," Mr. Cuomo said at a news conference Monday night. "If they don't do the 15 months, they're going down. Why? Because they're going to have such trouble doing the budget in daylight, in April, May, June, July, they're going to get killed when they are revealed to the world. They are going to get badly burned."
The Senate Majority Leader, Ralph J. Marino, has lashed out at many of Cuomo's proposals and appeared to almost taunt the Governor by dismissing the rhetoric. Asked Monday whether he was concerned about the Governor's threatening his party's hold on the Senate, Mr. Marino rolled his eyes and said, sarcastically, "Oh, I'm scared stiff."
By any standard, the bitterness surrounding these talks is remarkable and has shown no signs of letting up, even without Mr. Cuomo's national ambitions dragged in as a complicating factor.
After a month and a half of talking, the Governor and legislators have taken no steps to lessen the combined $5 billion deficit New York faces in its current and future budget.
They have not even agreed whether they should pass a straightforward package of spending cuts to close the $875 million gap in the $30 billion budget for the fiscal year that ends March 31, or devise an elaborate 15-month plan to attack both that deficit and the much larger one in the 1992-93 budget.
A four-hour meeting today between Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders produced no accord.
 
Republicans in Favor
 The 15-month plan trumpeted by the Governor had the obvious attraction of freeing him to hit the campaign trail, and in the days after Mr. Cuomo first floated the idea in mid-November, many of the Republicans who control the State Senate derided it as a gimmick.
But now the Republicans have become the most vocal proponents of the plan, which could blunt the impact of many spending cuts and arguably help them to maintain their 35-26 majority in the Senate when they run for re-election next fall.
Mr. Cuomo, who is not up for reelection next year, and Saul Weprin, the new Speaker of the Assembly, where Democrats maintain a much more comfortable margin, have both expressed considerable skepticism in recent days that the 15-month budget can be agreed to.
Whatever the merits of the longer plan, they say, the Legislature should concentrate now on immediate deficit-reduction.
The inaction here also carries the serious risk that Wall Street rating agencies will step in with their own version of a censure, a drop in the state's credit rating. That could add millions of dollars to the taxpayers' cost of borrowing money and wreak havoc for New York City and hundreds of other localities and school districts whose costs of borrowing are tied to the state's rating.
"I don't want to exercise brinkmanship at the expense of all the localities and the school districts," Mr. Weprin said Monday night after the second of two inconclusive meetings that day on the budget.
Vladimir Stadnyk, managing director for the Standard & Poor's Corporation, one of the major bond rating agencies, said in an interview that he could not give "a date or a time or a place" for when his agency might next issue a formal comment on the state's credit.
But he warned, "I would say that given the lack of progress, it makes me concerned that permanent solutions won't be forthcoming anytime soon, and given that fact, the probability of one-shots, temporary solutions, et cetera becomes greater. If that is the case, then the likelihood of a ratings change increases."
New York State's Standard & Poor's rating has been A since 1989, when it was downgraded from AA minus.
 
Focus on Social Service
 The crux of the dispute remains how to apportion hundreds of millions of dollars of spending cuts. The Senate continues to insist that the cuts focus on social-service programs, which have risen in some cases by nearly 20 percent in the past year, in part because of the recession.
"What's killing the state is that it is overburdened with Medicaid and welfare costs," said Mr. Marino, a Republican of Oyster Bay.
"That is what we've been saying over and over and over again, and apparently they're not listening."
But both the Governor and the Assembly have criticized many of the Republicans' proposals for cutting these services as assaults on New York's most vulnerable citizens.
"When they say cut spending, they mean cut spending on an unemployed worker who has run out of unemployment benefits and who is now on home relief for 60 days," said Mr. Cuomo, referring to the welfare program for people who do not qualify for Aid to Families with Dependent Children. "He should lose his home relief. They call that a legitimate cut in spending."
The Governor and the Assembly have raised the possibility of cuts in the state's $8 billion school-aid budget next year. But Senator Marino, whose party derives its core support from suburban areas where concerns about property taxes have turned school aid into political lifeblood, has backed a budget without any cuts in aid this year or next.
"I said the number was zero," Mr. Marino told reporters on Monday. "Zero. Do you understand that?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo is warning that he will use his veto power to be a player over the coming months in lawmakers' reapportionment. (Associated Press) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES; REAPPORTIONMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992



871 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2154 words

HEADLINE: Accepting the Harsh Truth Of a Blue-Collar Recession

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
For all the talk of a "white collar" recession, it is blue-collar workers who have been hardest hit by the current economic slump, losing more jobs and enduring far higher rates of unemployment. Five times as many blue-collar jobs have evaporated, and jobless rates are more than twice as severe.
More and more, blue-collar workers are facing the harsh truth that though the economy will no doubt come back, their lost jobs are probably gone for good, given the relentless advance of automation and international competition. Last week's announcement by the General Motors Corporation that it plans to shut 21 assembly plants and shed more than 70,000 jobs over the next few years -- only about a third of the cuts will come from the salaried ranks -- was just the most recent indication that the squeeze on blue-collar factory workers will continue. 
 So in places like Haverhill, Mass., a struggling industrial town in the state's northeast, workers are starting to train for new occupations, which offer brighter employment prospects but often pay far less.
 
Losing a Way of Life
 When Robert Harrington, a machine operator, was laid off in July, he lost a $37,000-a-year position and a standard of living he may never recover. After 20 years, his job in a nearby plant that prints and binds telephone directories was eliminated in a cost-cutting program.
By September, Mr. Harrington was not only out of a job, he was also divorced. Instead of a spacious colonial home, he now lives in a two-room apartment with his 15-year-old son, Robert. After he deducts his rent, utilities and other expenses from his unemployment check, Mr. Harrington figures that he lives on $12 a day. These days, a night on the town is a chicken fajita at McDonald's.
Mr. Harrington is studying in a federally financed program to be a paralegal, or lawyer's assistant. If he lands a job, he will earn at least $10,000 less than in his old blue-collar job.
"The money will be less, but I was looking for something that is recession proof," said Mr. Harrington, who is 38. "I don't want to go through this again."
 
Traditional Target for Cost Cuts
 The unemployment rate in blue-collar occupations -- a broad category covering more than 30 million Americans, from skilled craftsmen to manual laborers, with varied talents, incomes and circumstances -- stood at 9.1 percent in November, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. By contrast, the white-collar unemployment rate was 4.1 percent.
Since the peak of economic activity in July 1990, the blue-collar unemployment rate has increased by two percentage points while the white-collar rate has risen by one point. And the number of blue-collar jobs has fallen by more than a million, as desk jobs over all have declined by about 200,000.
Of course, white-collar professionals like bankers and lawyers, who once considered themselves immune to recessions, have also lost jobs. Those layoffs have been well publicized, and many occurred early in the economic downturn, reinforcing the image of the white-collar recession.
"But the traditional American way of cutting costs is to lay off blue-collar workers in times of recession, and that remains overwhelmingly the case," said Erica L. Groshen, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, who has studied the impact on workers in various occupations.
 
'Joe Middleman' As Odd Man Out
 In a series of interviews in Massachusetts, Connecticut and Michigan, blue-collar workers, regardless of occupation, expressed the concern that the hold they once had on middle-class status was increasingly precarious. "I am the working man -- 'Joe Middleman,' " said Gary Aldous, an out-of-work carpenter from Torrington, Conn. "But we seem to have an economy now that produces two classes, the rich and the poor. It seems as though this country is trying to eliminate people like me in the middle."
The pinch on blue-collar workers has been tightening for years. From 1980 to 1990, after adjusting for inflation, the wages of blue-collar workers fell by 6.3 percent, while white-collar salaries rose 3.9 percent. "Even a strong economy did not arrest the decline of earning capacity of blue-collar workers," said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
The manufacturing sector, heavily blue collar, suffered more in the 1981-82 recession than this time around. In the previous downturn, 2.2 million manufacturing jobs were lost. Many of the cuts were made in the name of fashioning a lean and newly competitive corporate America that could hold its own against foreign rivals. The streamlining process succeeded in making American producers more vigorous and, recently, manufactured exports have been one of the few sources of strength in the American economy.
Yet the process of squeezing more production from fewer workers is by no means over. This time, companies began shedding factory jobs 18 months before the recession began. Since January 1989, companies have eliminated 1.2 million manufacturing workers. "Manufacturing employment has been hard hit in this recession and for years before," said Thomas Nardone, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 
Fewer Auto Sales, Fewer Auto Parts
 Howard Miller, a 53-year-old machinist of Jackson, Mich., went to work for Jackson Drop Forge in 1958, which made forged steel parts for companies supplying the Big Three auto makers. He worked there until the place finally shut down in November 1990, laying off its last 60 workers.
A member of the United Automobile Workers Union, Mr. Miller made more than $10 a hour, and when the forging plant was busy, he made $28,000 a year. But this year, such jobs have been scarce, as the Detroit auto makers are struggling and thousands of companies that supply the auto industry are retrenching again.
Unlike workers for the Big Three, who thanks to their labor contracts collect more than 90 percent of their wages when laid off, workers for the subcontractors have no such safety net. Mr. Miller's state unemployment payments of $226 a week ended last May. His wife, Geraldine, died in June of a prolonged kidney ailment.
Mr. Miller owes the hospital $1,700 and the funeral parlor $2,000. His 1988 Buick was repossessed in July. His house was paid off years ago, but he is behind on his property tax payments. A neighbor helps by cooking him meals and baking him bread. Mr. Miller used to bowl for recreation, but, he said, "I don't do anything anymore."
Mr. Miller worked for two months this fall for a nearby company that repairs industrial machinery. As a part-time worker, he was paid $4.50 an hour, with no benefits. But the weakening economy brought that job to an end in November, and his prospects are bleak. There is very little forging work left near Jackson these days. The few machinist jobs available in the region require applicants who can handle computer-controlled equipment, a skill Mr. Miller does not have.
The auto parts industry, with more than 650,000 workers, is America's largest manufacturing employer. But with increasing competition from Japanese suppliers, which are building new factories in America and hiring young workers, "the domestic parts industry is where the next shakeout is going to be," said Sean McAlinden, a labor economist at the University of Michigan's Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation. "And there's no retraining solution for the older workers in that industry."
 
A Union Carpenter, Trying to Scrape By
 During the 1980's real-estate boom, Ron Richnavsky, a 29-year-old carpenter from Harwinton, Conn., had all the work he could handle. A union carpenter, paid $17.50 an hour plus benefits, he made up to $50,000 a year. In 1988, he and his wife, Linda, bought a $135,000 four-bedroom house for themselves and their three daughters, Nicole, Amanda and Danielle. "At the time, I was making good money," he said. "We thought we could handle it."
Mr. Richnavsky has had some work this year, but not nearly enough. He is about six months behind on his mortgage payments of $1,200 a month, and the bank is threatening to foreclose, he says. His wife makes $130 to $150 a week in her part-time job as a waitress. His unemployment benefits amount to $300 a week. "We can scrape through," he said, "as long as I don't pay the mortgage."
 
Blinded by the 80's
 Like so many other Americans, Mr. Richnavsky admits that he got caught up in the prosperity of the 1980's, assumed it would continue and took on too much debt. "When times are good, you don't think," he said.
Mr. Richnavsky has thought about seeking training in another field -- "some kind of computer training," he said -- but not seriously. As a journeyman carpenter, he is a skilled craftsman who should be in demand when construction activity picks up.
The amount of work may never again reach the superheated pace of the 1980's. The current 30 percent unemployment rates in construction in Connecticut, with the number of hours worked by the state's union carpenters cut by half since 1988, is the biggest slump in more than two decades, says John Cunningham, president of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners Local 210, representing Fairfield and Litchfield counties. The situation cannot help but eventually improve, Mr. Cunningham says.
 
Seizing the Chance For a Fresh Start
 In the lower Merrimack Valley of Massachusetts, the industrial northeast corner of the state, local government officials are not waiting for the recession to end. They are engaged in an aggressive effort, aided by Federal money under the Job Training Partnership Act, to retrain and find jobs for laid-off workers. Under the local program, the trainees receive unemployment benefits for an extended period of 10 months while they take courses to prepare for a new career.
The lower Merrimack region includes high-tech industries and traditional manufacturing plants clustered around the cities of Lowell, Lawrence and Haverhill, which have unemployment rates of 12 to 15 percent. The well-known companies in the area include American Telephone and Telegraph, Wang, Digital Equipment and Raytheon, all of which have cut their payrolls.
Ellen Reingold worked for 24 years as a electronics production worker for various companies in the region. Her most recent job was a yearlong stint at $10.50 an hour for Raytheon, debugging the electronic circuitry on the Patriot missiles of gulf war fame. But she was laid off last May. Mrs. Reingold, who is divorced with two grown children, was forced to sell her house in Haverhill, unable to make the $1,068-a-month mortgage payment. "It was either sell it or lose it after I lost my job," she said.
In the good years, Mrs. Reingold made $30,000 as an electronics assembler. But in each of the last three years, she has been laid off for months at a time. Seeking a field that offers more steady work, she is studying for a career in medical transcribing, the task of typing up doctors' tape-recorded notes into a computer. Besides word-processing skills, she is studying medical terminology.
Hospitals and clinics have stables of medical transcribers, she has heard. "They say there's a lot of work out there," said Mrs. Reingold, who is 41 years old.
 
From Dying Job to a Healing One
 Some of the retraining students have embarked on striking career changes. Rene Martineau, a burly 48-year-old former printing superviser, is training to be a licensed practical nurse. A nursing job, he says, will pay only about half of the $50,000 a year he used to make. "But printing is a dying industry," he said. "It will all be done by computers soon. And there is a real shortage of nurses."
Others see the recession as an opportunity. Michelle Dryver of Amesbury, Mass., has moved through a succession of mainly factory jobs since she graduated from high school eight years ago. She and her husband, Andrew, an assembler at a circuit-board plant, are scrimping to get by and have put off plans to start a family.
But Ms. Dryver is now studying office management, accounting and word processing at Northern Essex Community College in Haverhill, as well as medical terminology and transcribing. "I should be able to get something more than dead-end jobs when I graduate," said Ms. Dryver, who is 26 years old. "This is a perfect opportunity for someone like me."
Northern Essex Community College has about 1,000 of what the college president, John Dimitry, likes to call "our new breed of student," in the worker assistance program, a three-year-old endeavor. The students' grades, he said, have been about a full grade point higher than those of the younger students.
"What this has taught me is that there is enormous flexibility on the part of the work force," Mr. Dimitry said. "They want to be retrained and educated, given the chance. It can be done and it is being done right here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Harrington, who lost his job as a bookbinder in July, recently visited his former workplace, a North American Directory Corporation plant in Haverhill, Mass. With the job prospects bleak in his old field, Mr. Harrington is training for a new occupation: paralegal. (Michael Quan for The New York Times); Unemployment in the construction industry is roughly 30 percent in Connecticut. Ron Richnavsky, a carpenter who earned up to $50,000 a year in the building boom of the 80's, is now out of work and scrimping. He spent a recent Saturday at home with his daughters, Nicole, 8, in background at left, Amanda, 7; and Danielle, 5, foreground. (Judith Pszenica for The New York Times) (pg. 50)
 
Graphs: "Uneven Impact" shows unemployment rate for blue and white collar workers from 1/90 to 11/91 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 1); "Comparing Unemployment Rates" shows unemployment among craft, repair, management and professional (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION;
LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; AUTOMATION EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PARALEGALS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992



872 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 64; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Women Who Lose Breasts Define Their Own Femininity

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Twenty to 30 years ago, women with breast cancer worried that even if they survived the disease, the loss of a breast would somehow diminish their femininity and sexual attractiveness. Many women hid their mastectomies, disguising their single-breasted figures with cumbersome prostheses even around family members.
Today, women are less likely to perceive breast cancer as an attack on their innate feminine nature. For one thing, more and more women are having surgery that removes the malignancy but spares the breast. When a mastectomy is necessary, more and more women are having reconstructive surgery using an implant or their own fatty tissue. 
 And while breasts are still viewed in many societies and cultures as a symbol of womanhood, nurturing and sexuality, many men no longer consider the loss of a woman's breast as having lessened her physical attributes or sexual desirability.
 
'We Are What We Are'

"When it comes to self-image, you can't let cancer dictate who and what you are," said Jean Ettesvold, a 60-year-old retired social worker from Grand Rapids, Mich. who had a mastectomy just over a year ago. "We are what we are, in spite of the trauma we have suffered."
In a recent study of the effects of breast cancer on sexuality, body image and intimate relationships, Dr. Leslie R. Schover, a staff psychologist at the Center for Sexual Function at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in Ohio, concluded: "The majority of women cope well with the stress of cancer surgery and the loss of a breast. The options of breast conservation and reconstruction give women a new sense of control over their treatment and are quite successful in helping women feel comfortable with their bodies again."
Indeed, breast cancer patients are becoming militant, not only lobbying legislators and staging demonstrations urging more research on the disease, but talking about what it is like to have it.
In more than a dozen recent interviews, women who had lost a breast to cancer, ranging in age from their 30's to their 60's, said they did not feel less attractive then women with natural breasts. Most chose reconstructive surgery, though some used prostheses.
Some women have had their reconstructed breasts cosmetically tattoed instead of having additional surgery to reconstruct nipples or areolas.
"My cellulite bothers me more than my missing breast, because the cellulite's more visible," said Susan Brooks, a 39-year-old schoolteacher, wife and mother of two whose breast cancer was diagnosed in 1988. Two years later, Mrs. Brooks, who lives on Long Island, underwent a bone marrow transplant after the cancer spread to her left eye, back and right hip.
 
Some Reject Camouflage
 Indeed, breast cancer survivors like Audre Lorde, a poet who had a mastectomy in 1979, reject any kind of camouflage after mastectomy. They say cosmetic remedies undermine efforts to focus attention on thousands of women suffering and dying from the disease.
"When other one-breasted women hide behind the mask of prosthesis or reconstruction, I find little support in the broader female environment for my rejection for what feels like a cosmetic sham," said Ms. Lorde, a black lesbian feminist who has chosen not to wear a prosthesis for philosophical and political reasons. "The social and economic discrimination practiced against women who have breast cancer is not diminished by pretending that mastectomies do not exist."
In "The Cancer Journals," (Spinsters/Aunt Lute, 1981), a book that chronicles her battle with breast cancer, Ms. Lorde wrote: "I would lie if I did not also speak of loss. Any amputation is a physical and psychic reality that must be integrated into a new sense of self. The absence of my breast is a recurrent sadness, but certainly not one that dominates my life."
 
A Sense of Loss
 Other women agreed that loss of a breast can provoke feelings of loss, anger, pain or anxiety.
"When you walk through a lingerie department, you have a different feeling," said Mrs. Ettesvold. "Whether you have an implant or the mastectomy, you are reminded every time you look in the mirror."
"I didn't grieve the loss of my breast until eight years after I had my mastectomy," said Barbara Glenn, recalling that her double mastectomy at the age of 35 also came at a time, the 1980's, when women in New York outnumbered men. "I had a mental block. I didn't want to face it so I made believe nothing was happening. My denial was a way of surviving."
Most of the married women said their mastectomies had not had not harmed their marriages or their sex lives. The single women said their surgery had not impaired their relationships with men or dating. Some said they found men to be even more supportive after their mastectomies than before. Others said men seemed emotionally moved by their stories,often calling them courageous or survivors.
Paradoxically, many married women said they felt that single women fared better in coping with relationships after losing a breast, while single women believed that married women fared better.
"Single women particularly may feel more vulnerable, although many married women have as many problems as single," said Linda Dackman, the author of "Up Front, Sex and the Post-Mastectomy Woman" (New York Viking, 1990). Ms. Dackman, who is single, had her right breast removed in 1985.
Many women said they needed the reassurance of the men in their lives to feel psychologically whole again.
"My husband's been wonderful," said Carol Samnick, a 43-year-old mother of two from Plainview, L.I., who had a mastectomy and breast reconstruction last February. "He says he doesn't really care about the breast.As a teen-ager, I was big-breasted, and that was one thing people liked about me. So when I lost my breast, I had trouble dealing with it. In fact, I had more trouble dealing with it than my husband."
 
Touching the Scar
 "My wife wouldn't get dressed in front of me and I wouldn't allow it," said Michael Brooks, who is married to Susan Brooks, the schoolteacher. "At first, she wouldn't let me touch her scar, but I insisted." Mr. Brooks belongs to a men's support group set up by the Cancer Care Foundation for cancer patients' "significant others." Another member of the Woodbury, L.I., support group, who asked to be identified only as Robert, said his wife was also self-conscious about her reconstruction.
"That was so secondary to me," he said. Most men, he said, live in a society where they see a lot of cute girls with firm breasts. "I still look," he said. "But when I get in bed with my wife, I'm not afraid to touch. I think she's more uncomfortable with it than me."
Although many women are so afraid of losing a breast that they refuse to examine their breasts or have mammograms, women who have actually faced the disease often say that surviving is foremost, saving the breast is secondary.
"Initially, all I thought about was this stupid breast," acknowledged Betty Rollin, whose book "First, You Cry" (Lippincott, 1975) tells of her struggle with cancer and coping with a mastectomy. She had a second mastectomy in 1984. "Then I came to realize, I don't walk on it or type with it," she continued. "So what's the big deal? The second diagnosis, I really could have cared less about the breast. What I totally cared about was that I had cancer again."
 
Other Traumas
 In many instances, the women said they found the range of possible effects of chemotherapy -- hair loss, premature menopause, infertility and weight gain -- as traumatic as the loss of a breast, if not more so.
"I've always had a problem with thin hair," said Mrs. Samnick of a 43-Long Island, who had her mastectomy in early 1990. "Then I was told that the chemotherapy might cause me to lose my hair. First my boobs, then my hair, the two things a woman cherishes the most." Now, she says, she is able to laugh about her feelings , adding, "Humor is a healthy antidote for cancer."
Ann Marcou, the founder of Y-Me, a national support network for women with cancer, said: "I think it doesn't have quite the stigma it did. It's more accepted to have it."
Ms. Marcou, 59, who had a mastectomy 15 years ago, said: "People used to hide in the closet. Individual women still tussle with their body because it's so valued in society. Every woman who goes through this will wonder about her femininity and sexuality. But it comes down to this: 'Your femininity is not determined by whether or not you have breasts.' "


GRAPHIC: After breast removal, some women are comfortable with external prostheses and some prefer not to camouflage a missing breast.
 
For women who decide on breast reconstruction, there are two major surgical approaches
 
Complex flap surgery, using tissue from elsewhere in the body, can cost $20,000 for two breasts. 1,300 women had such reconstruction in 1988.
 
Less complex silicon implants are less expensive, at about $5,000. Safety concerns have been raised, 33,000 mastectomy patients got them in 1988. (Source: American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons)
 
Drawing
Diagram: "Alternatives After Mastectomy"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (70%); OHIO, USA (54%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GRAND RAPIDS DIECRAFTS (55%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF PLASTIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGEONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF PLASTIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGEONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); MICHIGAN, USA (70%); OHIO, USA (54%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (55%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BREAST; IMPLANTS; CANCER; MASTECTOMY; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; SEX BREAST CANCER (95%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); CANCER (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); WOMEN (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); INTERVIEWS (61%); LOBBYING (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992



873 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
BUSH LAUDS VISION OF SOVIET LEADER

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25

 BODY:
President Bush moved quickly tonight to recognize Russia and other former republics of the now-extinct Soviet Union.
After praising the former Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Mr. Bush went out of his way to express support for President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, who has emerged as the first among equals in the new Commonwealth of Independent States and as the custodian of the old Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal. 
 In his brief televised speech, Mr. Bush said that the United States would now recognize the independence of the 11 former Soviet republics that have banded together, as well as a 12th, Georgia, which has shunned the alliance. [Transcript of Mr. Bush's remarks, page A16.]
But he indicated that the equally important step of establishing diplomatic ties between Washington and all 12 parts of the old Soviet empire would be more complicated.
The President said he was satisifed with the assurances on nuclear controls that he has received from Mr. Yeltsin and from the other former republics with nuclear arms on their soil. Mr. Bush also said that the United States would establish diplomatic relations with Russia, Armenia, Ukraine, Byelorussia, Kazakhstan and Kirghizia.
Diplomatic relations with the remaining republics would come when the six meet five informal guidelines that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d outlined in September.
Mr. Baker said then that relations would be governed by the Soviet republics' commitments to peaceful self-determination by their citizens; to respect for borders; to orderly and democratic means of change; to human rights, and to the debts and other international obligations, such as treaties, that Moscow had already agreed to honor.
The White House appeared to have delayed recognizing Ukraine and Russia and openly supporting the new Commonwealth until after Mr. Gorbachev's formal retirement as a personal courtesy to the man Mr. Bush has praised as a visionary and peacemaker.
Long before Mr. Gorbachev made his resignation official in a speech on Soviet television today, Mr. Bush had been accused of allowing sentimentality to cloud cold judgments about where in the collapsing Soviet Union the White House should throw its support.
Mr. Bush's speech and a written statement issued tonight were tinged with sadness at the forced retirement of a man whom he had once dismissed as a fraud, but came to regard as a partner in the creation of a post-cold war order.
 
Eulogy for af Leader
 In his written statement, the President eulogized Mr. Gorbachev's leadership as "responsible for one of the most important developments of this century -- the revolutionary transformation of a totalitarian dictatorship and the liberation of his people from its smothering embrace."
"His personal commitment to democratic and economic reform through perestroika and glasnost," Mr. Gorbachev's opening and restructuring of Soviet society, "permitted the peoples of Russia and other republics to cast aside decades of dark oppression and put in place the foundations of freedom."
That task demanded "the highest degree of political and personal ingenuity and courage," Mr. Bush said.
But the President's decision to delay diplomatic recognition for six of the former republics reflected the Administration's own conviction that Mr. Gorbachev has left a task unfinished.
This fall, shortly after a coup attempt laid bare Mr. Gorbachev's faltering power, Mr. Baker expressed hope that the Soviet states could bind into a confederation so that Washington could deal with a single authority on matters of nuclear weapons and foreign affairs. Mr. Gorbachev's departure makes that hope reality, for now, but even Mr. Baker was said this week to fear that the confederation is doomed to fragment.
Tonight, Mr. Bush said that concerns about "responsible security policies and democratic principles" had led him to delay diplomatic recognition for Georgia and five Commonwealth members: Turkmenia, Moldavia, Tadzhikistan, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
In extending diplomatic recognition to Russia and Ukraine and some other members of the new Commonwealth, Mr. Bush joined major nations in certifying the new status of Russia as the continuation of the U.S.S.R., entitled to its permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.
Britain, the Netherlands, Israel and the European Community today said that they recognized the Russian Federation as the legal successor to the Soviet Union. The European Community said in a statement from the Netherlands that it will speed up the establishment of diplomatic ties with the other former Soviet states.
 
Europe Issues Guidelines
 The community last week issued guidelines that it said the republics must follow to win recognition.
The Netherlands said in a separate statement that it considers Russia "to exercise the international rights and obligations of the former U.S.S.R., including those under the U.N. Charter." Italy said it is beginning the process of recognizing Russia.
Britain's Prime Minister, John Major, told Mr. Yeltsin in a letter on Monday that Britain already views Russia as the successor to the old Soviet Union of 15 Republics because the Russian Republic was the original founder of the Soviet Union in 1922, the Associated Press reported today.
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said today that Canada will establish diplomatic relations immediately with Russia. Canada, which has a large population of Ukrainian origin moved to recognize Ukraine on Dec. 2.
Israel recognized all the states in the Commonwealth. Foreign minister David Levy urged the new nations to protect the rights of Jewish minorities, including their freedom to emigrate.
China's Foreign Ministry today issued a report on the world situation in which it said that the Soviet Union's demise signals the end of the East-West conflict and the dawn of a new "multi-polar" age, Tass reported.
China said it expects to have friendly relations with the new Soviet states "guided by the principle of noninterference in the domestic affairs of other states," Tass quoted China's foreign minister, Qian Qichen, as telling a committee of the Chinese Congress of Peoples Deputies.
Libya announced it recognized the new Commonwealth nations as well as Georgia. Iran recognized all the new states with the exception of Moldavia.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev said their personal farewells in a telephone call on Wednesday morning Washington time, shortly before Mr. Gorbachev made his resignation speech.
Mr. Bush praised Mr. Gorbachev in the conversation "for his personal courage and leadership in reforming the country," the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said. Mr. Fitzwater said that Mr. Gorbachev thanked Mr. Bush for his support.
Tass, the press service, reported that Mr. Gorbachev told Mr. Bush that he would immediately surrender control of the Soviet Union's 27,000-plus nuclear weapons to Mr. Yeltsin. Mr. Gorbachev told Mr. Bush that the White House could "spend a peaceful Christmas evening," with Mr. Yeltsin in control, Tass reported.
 
No Hiding in the Woods
 In an interview today with Cable News Network, Mr. Gorbachev said that he told Mr. Bush that he has "no intention of hiding in the taiga, hiding in the woods" now that he is out of power.
Mr. Bush's remarks tonight largely echoed those of leaders around the world who praised Mr. Gorbachev's determination to change the course of history and his willingness to step aside without a bloody struggle for power.
The British Prime Minister said: "It is given to very few people to change the course of history, but that is what Gorbachev has done. Whatever happens today, his place in history is secure."
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, who vigorously urged economic aid to help Mr. Gorbachev's Government through the transformation to a market economy, said today that the Soviet leader played a pivotal role in world history.
"Without Mikhail Gorbachev, the overcoming of the East-West conflict and the unprecedented success in the last years of disarmament and arms control would not have been possible," he said. "His place in the history of our century will not be challenged by anyone."
France's President, Francois Mitterrand, expressed "personal gratitude for the work accomplished in the defense of peace." The Japanese Government, which saw a 50-year-old dispute over boundaries begin to edge toward resolution under Mr. Gorbachev said in a statement that his accomplishments "will be highly appreciated and will remain in the history of this century."
The Secretary General of NATO, Manfred Worner, said that Europe, most of all, is grateful to Mr. Gorbachev for his "essential contribution . . . toward a Europe whole and free."
The Israeli Foreign Minister saluted Mr. Gorbachev's "historic part" in ending controls on the emigration of Jews.
 
Praise From Reagan
 Among those with the warmest praise were two pillars of Western anticommunism who quickly came to recognize, shortly after Mr. Gorbachev's rise to power in 1985, that he represented a break with the Soviet past.
Former President Ronald Reagan said today that Mr. Gorbachev "will live forever in history." He "has been willing to break down barriers that have divided our countries and enslaved his citizens," Mr. Reagan said in a written statement.
Margaret Thatcher, the former British Prime Minister, said today, "He did great things for the world, and we are very grateful."
"He restored liberty to all the East European countries," she said, and "he brought it for the first time to the peoples of the Soviet Union." By itself, she said, that was "a tremendous achievement." But more important, she said, "he did it all without a shot being fired."
It was Mrs. Thatcher who first ushered Mr. Gorbachev onto the Western world's stage in December 1984, when he was still a deputy to Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko, but his apparent successor as well.
Mrs. Thatcher's comments about her Soviet colleague, made after a meeting in London between the two, resounded around the world. "I like Mr. Gorbachev," she said. "We can do business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush last night. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); GEORGIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); GEORGIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); POLITICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



874 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: From L.I. to Angry Illinois: A 5-Day Trash Odyssey

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAYLORVILLE, Ill., Dec. 20

 BODY:
The story of Ocke Ketelsen's garbage began Dec. 15, when he put it out on his curb in Westbury, L.I. It was nothing special, just things like an old milk carton and some scraps of aluminum foil, and Mr. Ketelsen didn't give it a second thought. "Garbage is garbage," he said.
Not really, not anymore. 
 Garbage has become a multimillion-dollar industry, a touchy environmental issue and a major headache for crowded states like New York and New Jersey. And the next day, while Mr. Ketelsen stayed home, his trash began an odyssey that took it north, south, and finally 900 miles west to the flat, open community of Taylorville, where the major industries are farming, paper and New York State refuse.
The system that got Mr. Ketelsen's garbage here is as messy as trash itself. Mr. Ketelsen now pays five times as much in waste-disposal taxes as he did 15 years ago. And as they deal with closing landfills, wildly varying environmental regulations, and a crazy-quilt pricing system that can draw garbage halfway across the country in search of a good deal, many municipalities are finding that garbage is their biggest worry and their biggest expense.
"Garbage is the most serious problem that we face," said Ernest J. Strada, who, as Mayor of Westbury, is responsible for removing Mr. Ketelsen's trash. "The general public talks about it in a general sense -- we make garbage and it goes away. But it doesn't."
In the uneven picture of garbage in America, few places are as complicated as Long Island. The Island has dozens of overlapping jurisdictions, no space for landfills, and a population that produces twice as much garbage as the national average -- about seven pounds a day per person.
They collected Mr. Ketelsen's two bags at 11:30 A.M. on Monday, Dec. 16, three men in grimy clothes with a grim indifference to the trash around them. Garbage collection in Westbury is still so personalized that many of the 13,000 residents know their trash collectors by name.
But even though things seem the same to the residents, garbage collection has grown increasingly complicated for the village. In 1976, Westbury paid $390,000 to dispose of its trash; in 1992, the cost will be $2.1 million, and maybe higher.
 
Next Door Is Closed
 What really bothers Westbury is that even though the village is a half-mile from an enormous new garbage-burning incinerator in Hempstead that dominates the landscape and that would gladly charge $66 or so a ton for its trash, Westbury isn't allowed to use it. Instead, because the village is part of the town of North Hempstead under the system of interlocking governments on Long Island, it is required to truck its trash 10 miles and leave it, for $106 a ton, at North Hempstead's transfer station.
The village won a lower-court decision against the state flow-control law, which says that all the village's garbage belongs to the town. But the town plans to appeal, and it is unclear where the garbage will go.
And so, the village truck made its lumbering way to Port Washington, the center of North Hempstead's garbage operation.
It was about 1:30 P.M. on Monday, Dec. 16, when Mr. Ketelsen's garbage joined the rest of the town's at the huge transfer station, which looks like an airplane hangar and is known as a tipping floor.
If garbage annoys Mayor Strada, it drives the North Hempstead Supervisor, Benjamin L. Zwirn, crazy. Garbage takes up about half his supervising time and a good chunk of his budget: the town spent $13 million on waste disposal in 1991 and expects to pay $24 million in 1992.
 
A Long Way From the Dump
 Garbage has come a long way since the old days, when it was just tossed in the dump. Then, the town made a profit by charging the villages a modest fee for their trash. (In 1975, Westbury paid $8 a ton.)
As garbage policy evolved and trash became solid waste, the dump became a landfill. But it had all the dump's problems. Methane gas escaped from the garbage, seeping underground and exploding, sometimes in people's basements. Part of the landfill was declared a Federal Superfund site, with a cleanup cost of $50 million. And last spring, when garbage-suffused water began sickening residents with a rotten-eggs smell, the state closed the landfill.
Without its own incinerator -- a previous administration tried to build one, but residents didn't want it -- the town can't handle its trash alone. But it still wants all the trash it can get, because it desperately needs the tipping-fee revenue to keep the transfer station running.
Why not take it to the Hempstead incinerator, just 10 miles away? "Because," Mr. Zwirn explained, "it costs more to take the garbage to Old Country Road than it does to send it to the Midwest."
He's right. Dumping the trash in Hempstead would cost about $87 a ton, which the incinerator's operators say they need to pay off their debts and keep the plant running. But hiring a Brooklyn company, Star Recycling Inc., to take it off Long Island to the vast Midwest costs just $69 a ton.
 
Cinnamon to Fight Seagulls
 At 6 A.M. Tuesday, Dec. 17, the trash sped off down the Long Island Expressway with the earliest commuters, toward the Star Recycling transfer station in an industrial corner of Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
It was still mostly dark when the trash pulled in, joining a haphazard armada of trash-bearing trucks in the freezing morning. In a rush of noise and machinery and the incongruous smell of cinnamon, which is sprayed from the roof to cut the stench and to discourage seagulls, the garbage was disgorged onto the small mountains already on the enormous floor.
Star takes in about 2,500 tons of trash a day, said James Solano, its general manager. About four-fifths is from New York City, the rest from Long Island. The trash is shoved onto conveyor belts that zip past a dozen or so workers who feverishly pick out potential recyclables. Then it is crushed, baled, trussed and spat out by machines onto a loading area, where it is piled on trucks.
Some of the trash goes to landfills as far afield as Massachusetts, Virginia and Oklahoma. The rest goes to incinerators, including, amazingly enough, the incinerator in Hempstead -- the one that Westbury has been barred from using and that North Hempstead finds too expensive. (Star gets a good deal, Mr. Solano said, because it contracts with the incinerator on the monthly spot market).
 
Goodbye, Good Deal
 The company gets a good deal at Midwestern landfills, too; tipping fees there can run only $8 or $10 a ton. But the landscape is changing fast. Under new Federal regulations, hundreds of landfills nationwide will have to either shut down or pay millions of dollars to conform to stricter environmental standards.
There is also a strong anti-Eastern-garbage movement afoot. Many Midwestern communities resent New York and New Jersey's shipments, which in 1989 totaled 15 million tons of trash. In Congress, Senator Dan Coats of Indiana is gathering support for a bill that would allow states to impose fees on out-of-state garbage or to ban garbage imports altogether.
And as some municipalities worry that they might be liable for any future environmental problems at the Midwestern landfills where they dump, New York officials warn that the state won't be able to rely on out-of-state solutions forever.
"From an economic and an environmental standpoint, it does not make sense to manage our waste that way," said Thomas C. Jorling, Commissioner of the state Department of Environmental Conservation. "In New York, we should manage the waste we generate here."
 
Hoping for 7-Year Delay
 Mr. Jorling said that the state was trying to open more landfills and step up recycling, and he said he wished that Congress would delay its bill about 7 to 10 years, until New York could sort out its solid-waste problems.
By now, Mr. Ketelsen's own trash had been swallowed up, much as an eyedropper-full of water would if you added it to a river. But you could still tell which trash had come from North Hempstead, and Star Allied officials agreed to spray-paint red X's onto the four bales of town garbage so a reporter could keep track of them.
A little after 4 P.M. on Dec. 17, 50 tons of trash was loaded onto an 18-wheel tractor-trailer driven by 53-year-old David Watts of Nashville. Mr. Watts drove straight along Route 80, stopping to sleep in Brookville, Pa. He drove through Ohio and past Indianapolis, through snow and ice, before rolling on to his final destination: Taylorville.
Past cows, grain elevators and fields for corn, soybean, wheat and oats, Mr. Watts's truck rumbled in to the Christian County landfill at 11:30 A.M. today, five days after Mr. Ketelsen took his trash out.
Covering almost 36 acres in the heart of farm country, the landfill takes in about 1,200 tons of trash from 60 trucks a day, a rate that will fill its capacity of 213 acres by the year 2020 or so. Half the trash is from Illinois; the rest is from New York State, which pays $13 a ton to dump there.
Taylorville residents don't like New York, and they don't like New York's garbage. Many of them remember the infamous garbage barge Mobro, which roamed the Atlantic Ocean for almost four months in 1987, piled high with Long Island trash. They complain about the trucks, worry about their own garbage after the landfill is full, and speak darkly about several cases of rare cancer in town.
 
'We Have Our Own Problems'
 "I don't know much about New York," said Maurice Hodge, a coal miner who was mailing letters at the local post office. "I guess they have a bad situation, but we have our own problems here. What's going to happen in 20 years?"
Driving around the landfill in his Jeep, Mitchel T. Hoban, the landfill's Illinois regional manager, acknowledged that the issue was touchy. But the landfill has begun paying fees: 95 cents to the county and $1.25 to the state for every ton it takes in. And, Mr. Hoban said, the money helps keep down the town's costs at the landfill.
"It takes a certain volume of garbage, and the revenue generated from that volume, to run a safe and sanitary landfill," he said. "Without the waste stream from New York, the local population would have to support the landfill by itself."
Mr. Hoban drove up near Mr. Watts's truck just as the landfill officials were unloading it. Out came a tumble of bales, including the four marked with X's. The workers cut the bales, and New York garbage spilled out all over Illinois soil -- a half-eaten chicken breast, the sole from a man's sneaker, newspapers from Dec. 15.
Workers at the dump say New York garbage is just like local garbage, except that they sometimes find big wads of cash that were thrown out by mistake. As it was bulldozed, the garbage was mixed with the rest of that day's load until it was impossible to tell it apart at all.
Mr. Watts got back in his truck, lighted a cigarette and looked out over the vast countryside. He imagined it filling up with enormous piles of trash. "I think about my grandkids's kids, in 100 years," he said. "What are they going to do?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The end of the road for garbage collected in Westbury, L.I., is Taylorville, Ill., where New York garbage is a major industry. (Terry Farmer for The New York Times); Ocke Ketelsen of Westbury starting his garbage on its cross-country burial trip. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Diagram illustrating the route of Ocke Ketelsen's garbage from Westbury to Taylorville, Illinois. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; LANDFILL; PRICES AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (67%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



875 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
Text of Gorbachev's Farewell Address

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's resignation speech in Moscow yesterday, as recorded through the facilities of CNN and translated by CNN from the Russian:
Dear fellow countrymen, compatriots. Due to the situation which has evolved as a result of the formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States, I hereby discontinue my activities at the post of President of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
 I am making this decision on considerations of principle. I firmly came out in favor of the independence of nations and sovereignty for the republics. At the same time, I support the preservation of the union state and the integrity of this country.
The developments took a different course. The policy prevailed of dismembering this country and disuniting the state, which is something I cannot subscribe to.
After the Alma-Ata meeting and its decisions, my position did not change as far as this issue is concerned. Besides, it is my conviction that decisions of this caliber should have been made on the basis of popular will.
However, I will do all I can to insure that the agreements that were signed there lead toward real concord in society and facilitate the exit out of this crisis and the process of reform.
This being my last opportunity to address you as President of the U.S.S.R., I find it necessary to inform you of what I think of the road that has been trodden by us since 1985.
 
Squandered Resources
 I find it important because there have been a lot of controversial, superficial, and unbiased judgments made on this score. Destiny so ruled that when I found myself at the helm of this state it already was clear that something was wrong in this country.
We had a lot of everything -- land, oil and gas, other natural resources -- and there was intellect and talent in abundance. However, we were living much worse than people in the industrialized countries were living and we were increasingly lagging behind them. The reason was obvious even then. This country was suffocating in the shackles of the bureaucratic command system. Doomed to cater to ideology, and suffer and carry the onerous burden of the arms race, it found itself at the breaking point.
All the half-hearted reforms -- and there have been a lot of them -- fell through, one after another. This country was going nowhere and we couldn't possibly live the way we did. We had to change everything radically.
It is for this reason that I have never had any regrets -- never had any regrets -- that I did not use the capacity of General Secretary just to reign in this country for several years. I would have considered it an irresponsible and immoral decision. I was also aware that to embark on reform of this caliber and in a society like ours was an extremely difficult and even risky undertaking. But even now, I am convinced that the democratic reform that we launched in the spring of 1985 was historically correct.
The process of renovating this country and bringing about drastic change in the international community has proven to be much more complicated than anyone could imagine. However, let us give its due to what has been done so far.
This society has acquired freedom. It has been freed politically and spiritually, and this is the most important achievement that we have yet fully come to grips with. And we haven't, because we haven't learned to use freedom yet.
However, an effort of historical importance has been carried out. The totalitarian system has been eliminated, which prevented this country from becoming a prosperous and well-to-do country a long time ago. A breakthrough has been effected on the road of democratic change.
 
Market Format Nears
 Free elections have become a reality. Free press, freedom of worship, representative legislatures and a multi-party system have all become reality. Human rights are being treated as the supreme principle and top priority. Movement has been started toward a multi-tier economy and the equality of all forms of ownership is being established.
Within the framework of the land reform, peasantry began to re-emerge as a class. And there arrived farmers, and billions of hectares of land are being given to urbanites and rural residents alike. The economic freedom of the producer has been made a law, and free enterprise, the emergence of joint stock companies and privatization are gaining momentum.
As the economy is being steered toward the market format, it is important to remember that the intention behind this reform is the well-being of man, and during this difficult period everything should be done to provide for social security, which particularly concerns old people and children.
We're now living in a new world. And end has been put to the cold war and to the arms race, as well as to the mad militarization of the country, which has crippled our economy, public attitudes and morals. The threat of nuclear war has been removed.
Once again, I would like to stress that during this transitional period, I did everything that needed to be done to insure that there was reliable control of nuclear weapons. We opened up ourselves to the rest of the world, abandoned the practices of interfering in others' internal affairs and using troops outside this country, and we were reciprocated with trust, solidarity, and respect.
We have become one of the key strongholds in terms of restructuring modern civilization on a peaceful democratic basis. The nations and peoples of this country have acquired the right to freely choose their format for self-determination. Their search for democratic reform of this multi-national state had led us to the point where we were about to sign a new union treaty.
 
Popular Resentment
 All this change had taken a lot of strain, and took place in the context of fierce struggle against the background of increasing resistance by the reactionary forces, both the party and state structures, and the economic elite, as well as our habits, ideological bias, the sponging attitudes.
The change ran up against our intolerance, a low level of political culture and fear of change. That is why we have wasted so much time. The old system fell apart even before the new system began to work. Crisis of society as a result aggravated even further.
I'm aware that there is popular resentment as a result of today's grave situation. I note that authority at all levels, and myself are being subject to harsh criticisms. I would like to stress once again, though, that the cardinal change in so vast a country, given its heritage, could not have been carried out without difficulties, shock and pain.
The August coup brought the overall crisis to the limit. The most dangerous thing about this crisis is the collapse of statehood. I am concerned about the fact that the people in this country are ceasing to become citizens of a great power and the consequences may be very difficult for all of us to deal with.
I consider it vitally important to preserve the democratic achievements which have been attained in the last few years. We have paid with all our history and tragic experience for these democratic achievements, and they are not to be abandoned, whatever the circumstances, and whatever the pretexts. Otherwise, all our hopes for the best will be buried. I am telling you all this honestly and straightforwardly because this is my moral duty.
I would like to express my gratitude to all people who have given their support to the policy of renovating this country and became involved in the democratic reform in this country. I am also thankful to the statements, politicians and public figures, as well as millions of ordinary people abroad who understood our intentions, gave their support and met us halfway. I thank them for their sincere cooperation with us.
 
Avoidable Mistakes
 I am very much concerned as I am leaving this post. However, I also have feelings of hope and faith in you, your wisdom and force of spirit. We are heirs of a great civilization and it now depends on all and everyone whether or not this civilization will make a comeback to a new and decent living today. I would like, from the bottom of my heart, to thank everyone who has stood by me throughout these years, working for the righteous and good cause.
Of course, there were mistakes made that could have been avoided, and many of the things that we did could have been done better. But I am positive that sooner or later, some day our common efforts will bear fruit and our nations will live in a prosperous, democratic society.
I wish everyone all the best.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev signing a decree relinquishing control of the Soviet strategic arsenal to Boris N. Yeltsin shortly before announcing his resignation as President of the defunct Soviet Union. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Text

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (93%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (58%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (58%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICS (71%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



876 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Retailers would probably like to forget Christmas 1991. While most merchants had been prepared for a sluggish season, many said sales turned out to be even worse than expected. Results through Monday indicate that retail spending will be flat or only up slightly in December. A month ago, many retailers hoped to exceed last year's sales by 5 percent. [Page A1.]
Pineapples are no longer a mainstay of Hawaii's economy. The state's crop is unable to compete in the world market. [A1.] 
 A $15 billion home health care industry has emerged in the last decade, with more than 12,500 companies and nonprofit services. Many experts expect even faster growth in years to come as home treatment proves effective for a growing range of acutely ill or disabled patients whom doctors would once have insisted on hospitalizing at great cost. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
Several big money market funds are shying away from commercial paper issued by the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the nation's second-largest issuer. Money managers say they fear that G.M.A.C.'s paper will be downgraded, a move that two leading credit-rating agencies are already considering. [D1.]
Lukens is struggling with a contentious strike by steelworkers that may well reveal how much power their union still has and at what to the nation's big steel producers. [D1.]
Banyan Systems is moving aggressively to seize market share from Novell, its much-better-known rival. [D1.]
The Daily News appears to have only six weeks to turn itself into a viable business after the Maxwell debacle. [B3]
More and more companies are eagerly buying access to computerized government records and reselling this data to banks, law firms, marketers, private investigators and journalists. [D2.]
Thousands of former Pan Am employees had hoped this Christmas would never come. They are out of work and may not receive any severance pay. [D4.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
The Agnelli family, which controls Fiat, is diversifying in the face of continued trouble in the auto industry and a looming, unpredictable challenge from Japan. [D1.]
Markets
The dollar fell against the mark and the yen in Japanese trading. Most other financial markets around the world were closed for the Christmas holiday. [D8.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Advanced Micro Devices has gone from being a money loser to a company with rapidly rising profits as it took market share from Intel, the semiconductor industry leader. But some Wall Street analysts are starting to forecast that A.M.D.'s big rise is over, while Intel's is only just beginning. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Some of advertising's top talents are creating promotional ads for television, even though these carry little of the glamour of national commercials. Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (82%); INTEL CORP (80%); NOVELL INC (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RETAILERS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); US DOLLAR (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (67%); HOME HEALTH CARE (56%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (53%); CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



877 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3078 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
The Soviet State, Born of a Dream, Dies

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 25

 BODY:
The Soviet state, marked throughout its brief but tumultuous history by great achievement and terrible suffering, died today after a long and painful decline. It was 74 years old.
Conceived in utopian promise and born in the violent upheavals of the "Great October Revolution of 1917," the union heaved its last in the dreary darkness of late December 1991, stripped of ideology, dismembered, bankrupt and hungry -- but awe-inspiring even in its fall. 
 The end of the Soviet Union came with the resignation of Mikhail S. Gorbachev to make way for a new "Commonwealth of Independent States." At 7:32 P.M., shortly after the conclusion of his televised address, the red flag with hammer-and-sickle was lowered over the Kremlin and the white-blue-red Russian flag rose in its stead.
 
No Ceremony, Only Chimes
 There was no ceremony, only the tolling of chimes from the Spassky Gate, cheers from a handful of surprised foreigners and an angry tirade from a lone war veteran.
Reactions to the death varied widely, according to Pravda, the former mouthpiece of the empire: "Some joyfully exclaim, 'Finita la comedia!' Others, heaping ash on their heads, raise their hands to the sky in horror and ask, what will be?"
The reaction depended somewhat on whether one listened to the ominous gunfire from Georgia, or watched spellbound the bitter if dignified surrender of power by the last leader of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. Gorbachev.
Most people vacillated. The taboos and chains were gone, but so was the food. The Soviet Union had given them pitifully little, but there was no guarantee that the strange-sounding "Commonwealth of Independent States" would do any better.
As for Mr. Gorbachev, public opinion polls indicated a virtually universal agreement that it was time for him to move on -- not because he had failed, but because there was nothing more he could do.
It was perhaps a paradox that the ruler who presided over the collapse of the Soviet Union was the only one of its ill-starred leaders to leave office with a measure of dignity intact. It was possible that history would reach a different verdict, but among many thoughtful Russians, it was to his undying credit that he lifted the chains of totalitarian dictatorship. Whether he could also have saved the economy was another question.
"Gorbachev was unable to change the living standards of the people, but he changed the people," Komsomolskaya Pravda wrote in a sympathetic farewell that seemed to capture the dominant mood. He didn't know how to make sausage, but he did know how to give freedom. And if someone believes that the former is more important than the latter, he is likely never to have either."
Another man might have done things differently. But it was difficult to conceive that any of those then available -- the conservative Yegor K. Ligachev, the rough-hewn Boris N. Yeltsin, the bureaucratic Nikolai I. Ryzhkov or the scholarly Eduard A. Shevardnadze -- possessed just that blend of reformer and ideologue, of naivete and ruthlessness, that enabled Mr. Gorbachev to lead the Communists to the edge of the cliff.
"Gorbachev was a true instrument of fate," declared Viktor Yerofeyev, a writer and literary critic. "He had just enough intelligence to change everything, but not enough to see that everything would be destroyed. He was bold enough to challenge his party, and cautious enough to let the party live until it lost its power. He had enough faith in Communism to be named its head, but enough doubts about it to destroy it. If he had seen everything clearly, he would not have changed Russia."
Mr. Gorbachev struggled to the end, and beyond it, to keep the union alive. But in the end, it was by letting the union die and by stepping aside that he gave a new lease on life to the great Eurasian entity, whatever its name.
 
The Union
Epic Achievement And Epic Failure
 Measured against its own ambitions, the U.S.S.R. died a monumental failure.
It had promised no less than the creation of a "Soviet new man," imbued with selfless devotion to the common good, and it ended up all but crushing the initiative and spirit of the people, making many devoted only to vodka. It had proclaimed a new humanitarian ideology, and in its name butchered 10 million of its own. It envisioned a planned economy in which nothing was left to chance, and it created an elephantine bureaucracy that finally smothered the economy. Promising peace and freedom, it created the world's most militarized and ruthless police state.
Promising a people's culture, it created an anti-culture in which mediocrity was glorified and talent was ruthlessly persecuted. An entire department of the K.G.B. existed to wrestle with art, trying first to co-opt any rising talent "to the service of the state" and if that failed, to muzzle or exile it. The roll-call of repressed or exiled artists is a stunning indictment: Mandelstam, Malevich, Pasternak, Solzhenitsyn, Rostropovich, Brodsky, and so many more.
In the end, promising a new life, it created an unspeakably bleak society -- polluted, chronically short of everything, stripped of initiative and spirituality. While the bulk of the nation stood in line or guzzled rot-gut vodka, the Communist elite raised corruption to new heights: The likes of Leonid I. Brezhnev and his cronies pinned endless medals on one another and surrounded themselves with a peasant's notion of luxury -- grandiose candelabras, massive cars, vast hunting estates, armies of sycophants, secret hospitals filled with the latest Western technology.
And yet the Soviet Union was also an indisputable superpower, a state and a people that achieved epic feats in science, warfare, even culture.
Perhaps all this was achieved despite Communism, not because of it. Yet by some combination of force and inspiration, the system begun by Lenin and carried out by Stalin unleashed a potent national energy that made possible the rapid industrialization of the 1930's, the defeat of Nazi Germany in the 1940's, the launching of the first Sputnik in the 1950's, the creation of a nuclear arsenal in the 1960's and 1970's. Even now, for all the chaos in the land, two astronauts, Aleksandr A. Volkov and Sergei Krikalev, continue to circle the globe.
In culture too, both the "thaw" of Nikita S. Khrushchev in the 1960's and the "glasnost" of Mr. Gorbachev offered testimony that the enormous creativity of the nation was as tenacious as the people.
And in sport, the tangle of Olympic medals and international victories were a tacit source of national pride even among the staunchest critics of the Communist regime.
 
The Dream
A Utopian Illusion Survived Injustice
 It is easy now, gazing over the smoldering ruins of the Soviet empire, to enumerate the fatal illusions of the Marxist system. Yet the irresistible utopian dream fired generations of reformers, revolutionaries and radicals here and abroad, helping spread Soviet influence to the far corners of the globe.
Until recently, rare was the third world leader who did not espouse some modified Marxist doctrine, who did not make a regular pilgrimage to Moscow to join in the ritual denunciations of the "imperialists."
Much of it was opportunism, of course. In the Soviet Union as in the third world, Communism offered a handy justification for stomping on democracy and keeping one party and one dictator in power.
Yet it was also a faith, one strong enough to survive all the injustices done in its name. Lev Kopelev, a prominent intellectual now living in Germany, recalled in his memoirs how prisoners emerged from the gulag after Stalin's death firmly believing that at last they could start redressing the "errors" of Stalinism and truly building Communism.
And only last March, Mr. Gorbachev would still declare in Minsk, "I am not ashamed to say that I am a Communist and adhere to the Communist idea, and with this I will leave for the other world."
The tenacity of the faith testified to the scope of the experiment. It was a monumental failure, but it had been a grand attempt, an experiment on a scale the world had never known before.
Perhaps it was the height of folly and presumption that Russia, a country then only at the dawn of industrialization and without a bourgeoisie or proletariat to speak of, would have been the one to proclaim itself the pioneer of a radically new world order.
 
Two Worlds
'Westernizers' Vs. 'Slavophiles
 But Russians have always had a weakness for the broad gesture. The greatest czars -- Ivan the Terrible, Peter the Great -- were those with the grandest schemes. The greatest writers, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy, explored ultimate themes in immense novels. The Russian Orthodox Church embroidered its churches and its liturgy in the most elaborate gilding and ceremony.
Nothing happened small in the Soviet era, either. Twenty million died in the war, 10 million more in the gulag. And the pride of place was always given to grandiose construction projects -- the world's biggest hydroelectric plant at Bratsk, the world's biggest truck factory at Kamaz, the trans-Siberian railroad.
The czarist merchant wrapped in coats of gold and sable racing in his sleigh through wretched muzhiks in birch-bark shoes translated into the ham-fisted party boss tearing through Moscow in his long black limousine.
Many theories have been put foward to explain these traits. There is the sheer expanse of a country that spans 11 time zones. There is the climate, which imposed a rhythm of long, inactive winters punctuated by brief summers of intense labor. Some posited the absence of a Renaissance, which stunted the development of an individual consciousness and sustained a spirit of collectivism.
Above all it was a nation straddling two continents and two cultures, forever torn and forever fired by the creative clash at the faultline of East and West.
Russians have ever split into "Westernizers" and "Slavophiles," and the death of the Soviet Union had everything to do with the struggle between the "Westernizing" democrats and free-marketeers and the anti-Western champions of powerful statehood and strong center.
The West has always been deemed both attractive and dangerous to Russia. Peter the Great campaigned desperately to open his nation to the West, but Westerners remained suspect and isolated. Communism found nourishing soil in the Russian spirit of collectivism, but its Western materialism proved alien.
Western democracy is foundering here on the same ambivalence. The Soviets plunged whole-heartedly into the plethora of new councils and parliaments inaugurated by Mr. Gorbachev. But their endless debate and inability to organize into cohesive interest groups soon diminished public attention, and at the end the parliaments readily transferred most of their powers to Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Yeltsin and other powerful men.
"What remains after the Soviet Union is this Eurasian essense, this unique interplay of Europe and Asia, which will continue to amaze the world with its culture and totally unexpected actions," Mr. Yerofeyev said.
"What was imported in Western Marxism will vanish," he continued. "But Communism will not disappear, inasmuch as the spirit of collectivism is at the heart of this nation. The nation will always say 'we' rather than the Anglo-Saxon 'I'.
"This was Lenin's deftness, that he realized Russia was ready to accept Communism, but needed only 'class struggle' for everything to fall into place. As soon as it had an enemy, the collective consciousness became dynamic."
 
Contrasts
Impressive Feats, Awesome Litter
 That spirit was forever captured in the revolutionary posters, with their capitalists in top hats dripping with workers' blood, or the muscular young Communists crushing bourgeois vipers.
Lenin's successors understood this equally well, that it was easier to fire Soviets to enormous feats and extraordinary sacrifice than to organize them for sustained work and steady growth.
The capacity for suffering and sacrifice, whether in the war or in the endless lines today, is something that still awes foreigners. The ability to focus enormous talent and energy on a grand project is equally impressive, and from this came the great achievements in science, weaponry and construction.
Yet the sloppiness and inefficiency of everyday life make an even stronger impression on visitors. The shoddiness of even the newest apartment block or hotel is shocking. Old houses seem to list precariously in the mud. Wreckage litters every yard. Cars come off the assembly lines half broken.
The planned economy served only to intensify the squalor. It made volume, not quality or inventiveness, the primary measure of production, and it put a premium on huge factories over flexibility or distribution.
The system also gave consumer goods the lowest possible priority, thus institutionalizing shortages and reducing ordinary people to a permanent state of dependence on the state and rude salespeople.
 
Icons
The Cults End In State's Dotage
 Whether Lenin would have built the Soviet state this way is not certain. Three years before his death, in 1921, he replaced "War Communism" with what became known as the "New Economic Policy," but was in fact a return to a measure of old laissez-faire. The national income rose to pre-revolutionary levels, but that failed to dissuade Stalin from starting the first Five-Year Plan.
Nonetheless, it was Lenin who became the first deity of the new order. He was a convenient hero: He had died while still enormously popular, and he left behind enough writings on every topic to support whatever position his successors chose to take.
Thus his goateed visage soon became the mandatory icon in every official building or every town square, and his words became scripture. All the powers of science were summoned to preserve his remains forever, and his mausoleum became the spiritual heart of the new empire. His name became an adjective denoting orthodoxy, as in "the Leninist way." Plaques were raised at every building he stayed in, and an enormous temple was built over his childhood home.
The cult seemed only to gain strength with the passing years, as his successors denounced one another and struggled to portray themselves as the one true interpreter of Lenin. Stalin set the trend, killing most of Lenin's comrades as he perfected the machinery of repression, all the while claiming to act in the name of the great founder.
Next, Khrushchev dismantled the Stalin cult and halted the worst of the terror in the name of restoring "true Leninism," only to be overthrown himself. Before long, Brezhnev was the sole heir, and Khrushchev's "voluntarism" joined Stalin's "personality cult" among the heresies of Leninism.
With Brezhnev, the Soviet state passed visibly into dotage. As he grew bloated and incoherent, so did the state. Production fell while an uncontrolled military machine devoured ever-larger portions of the national product. Foreign policy sank into a pattern of stagnant coexistence and fierce military competition with the West, while at home the political police steadily put down the small but brave dissident movement inspired by the brief Khrushchevian thaw.
After 18 years in power, Brezhnev was succeeded by two other old and sick men, Yuri V. Andropov and Konstantin U. Chernenko, and by the time Mr. Gorbachev took the helm in 1985, it was obvious to all that the state was in radical need of help.
Mr. Gorbachev, at 54 the youngest Soviet leader since Stalin, electrified the land almost immediately with the introduction of "glasnost," or openness. Suddenly the people could talk and think freely, taboos began to crumble, East-West hostilities evaporated, and dissidents emerged from labor camps and exile. The sweet perfume of hope scented the air.
But Mr. Gorbachev's parallel attempts to reform the economy perished on the same shoals as all previous reforms -- the thick and privileged Communist party apparat. The more glasnost flourished, the more it became evident that perestroika was foundering, and everything Mr. Gorbachev did seemed to be too little or too late.
Floundering in the end, he lurched first to the left, ordering a radical "500 day" reform plan in the summer of 1989, then to the right, rejecting the plan and encircling himself with party stalwarts and letting them use force, then back to the left last spring, opening negotiations with the republics on a new Union Treaty.
By then it was too late. The rejected right-wingers tried to seize power by force in the August coup, and with their defeat, the republics had no more need for or faith in Mr. Gorbachev or the remnants of his union.
On Dec. 8, the leaders of Russia, Ukraine and Byelorussia pulled the plug, proclaiming a new Commonwealth of Independent States, and after that it was only a question of time before the breathing stopped.
 
Afterlife
Problems Survive But Will Pride?
 The union was dead. But the great Eurasian entity on which it fed remained very much alive -- as Russia, as a new Commonwealth of 11 republics, as a culture and a worldview, as a formidable nuclear arsenal, as a broad range of unresolved crises.
The gunfire in Georgia, the long lines across the land, the closed airports and the myriad unanswered questions about the new Commonwealth -- would it confer citizenship? would it remain a single military and economic entity? would it manage transport and communications? -- made clear that the legacy of the union would long survive.
Mr. Gorbachev had given people a new freedom. But the Soviet Union had also given them something tangible -- the pride of superpower. Whatever their problems and shortages, they had been one of the two arbiters of global destinies, a nation that nobody could intimidate or bully.
Now that was being taken away, too, and how the humiliation would play out, especially in conditions of hunger and poverty, was among the troubling questions for the future.
"The parting with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will be long and difficult," Izvestia warned. "We must acknowledge that many will not believe or agree to the end of their days with the death warrant written in Minsk and confirmed in Alma-Ata. The idea of superpower has a force equal to nationalism, and in certain conditions it is also capable of uniting millions of fanatic supporters."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE WAR YEARS: The German invasion of Russia, breaking the Hitler-Stalin non-aggression pact, began in June 1941. After Nazi forces were eventually slowed and halted in bitter, long and very costly battles like the victorious defense of Stalingrad in 1943, left, the Red Army moved onto the offensive to occupy lands that enabled Stalin to orchestrate the postwar divison of Europe into East and West. (Tass from Sovfoto); BORN OF REVOLUTION: After the overthrow of Czarist rule in February 1917, ferment continued as crowds rallied for "Land, Freedom and a Democratic Republic." On Nov. 7, Lenin, as head of the Bolsheviks, seized power from the democratically minded provisional government and set out to organize the world's first Communist state, while waging a civil war that lasted until 1922. He is shown at a Red Square rally in 1919. (Exclusive News Agency); INDUSTRIALIZATION: Centralized planning placed stress on the construction of huge industries and extolling a proletarian culture in propaganda such as the pageantry accompanying the dedication of a steel mill in 1932. (Bettmann Archive; Camera Press); STALINISM: Terror, forced collectivization and intensifying totalitarianism characterized the rule of Stalin, which lasted from 1924 through World War II until 1953. (Sovfoto) (pg. A14); THE BEGINNING OF THE END: As Mikhail S. Gorbachev was held captive by hard-line Communists in August, Boris N. Yeltsin mounted a tank in Moscow to rally resistance to the coup plotters. The coup collapsed and Mr. Gorbachev was restored, but with steadily weakening authority. (Associated Press); THE SPACE RACE: While the Soviets did not explode their first atomic bomb until five years after the United States ushered in the nuclear age, they launched the world's first earth satellite, Sputnik, in 1957, four months before the first American satellite was orbited. Four years later, the Soviets sent Yuri Gagarin on the first manned space flight. (Associated Press); COLD SPOT: Khrushchev showing the Supreme Soviet an aerial photograph make by Francis Gary Powers, pilot of a U.S. spy plane, who was shot down and captured in May 1960. (Associated Press); DETENTE: Leonid I. Brezhnev and President Nixon soon after the signing of the 1972 strategic arms agreement, which paved the way for greater discussion and lessening tension. (Mike Lien/The New York Times); SUPERPOWER: On May Day, 1963, the Soviet military showed off a powerful arsenal to compete with the weapons of the United States. A year earlier, Nikita Khrushchev backed off a nuclear showdown when he responded to President Kennedy's order of a "quarantine" of Cuba by withdrawing missiles from the Caribbean nation. (Associated Press) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA MINE (51%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PUBLIC OPINION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TRENDS (78%); WORLD WAR II (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (63%); POLITICS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



878 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
Text of Bush's Address to Nation on Gorbachev's Resignation

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Following is the text of a televised speech President Bush made tonight after President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's resignation:
Good evening, and Merry Christmas to all Americans across our great country. 
 During these last few months, you and I have witnessed one of the greatest dramas of the twentieth century -- the historic and revolutionary transformation of a totalitarian dictatorship, the Soviet Union, and the liberation of its peoples. As we celebrate Christmas -- this day of peace and hope -- I thought we should take just a few minutes to reflect on what these events mean for us, as Americans.
For over 40 years, the United States led the West in the struggle against Communism and the threat it posed to our most precious values. This struggle shaped the lives of all Americans. It forced all nations to live under the specter of nuclear destruction.
 
From Union, a Commonwealth
 That confrontation is now over. The nuclear threat -- while far from gone -- is receding. Eastern Europe is free. The Soviet Union itself is no more. This is a victory for democracy and freedom. It's a victory for the moral force of our values. Every American can take pride in this victory, from the millions of men and women who have served our country in uniform, to millions of Americans who supported their country and a strong defense under nine presidents.
New, independent nations have emerged out of the wreckage of the Soviet empire. Last weekend, these former republics formed a Commonwealth of Independent States. This act marks the end of the old Soviet Union, signified today by Mikhail Gorbachev's decision to resign as President.
I'd like to express, on behalf of the American people, my gratitude to Mikhail Gorbachev for years of sustained commitment to world peace, and for his intellect, vision and courage. I spoke with Mikhail Gorbachev this morning. We reviewed the many accomplishments of the past few years and spoke of hope for the future.
Mikhail Gorbachev's revolutionary policies transformed the Soviet Union. His policies permitted the peoples of Russia and the other republics to cast aside decades of oppression and establish the foundations of freedom.
His legacy guarantees him an honored place in history and provides a solid basis for the United States to work in equally constructive ways with his successors.
The United States applauds and supports the historic choice for freedom by the new states of the Commonwealth. We congratulate them on the peaceful and democratic path they have chosen, and for their careful attention to nuclear control and safety during this transition. Despite a potential for instability and chaos, these events clearly serve our national interest.
We stand tonight before a new world of hope and possibilities and hope for our children, a world we could not have contemplated a few years ago. The challenge for us now is to engage these new states in sustaining the peace and building a more prosperous future.
 
Announcement of Recognition
 As so today, based on commitments and assurances given to us by some of these states, concerning nuclear safety, democracy, and free markets, I am announcing some important steps designed to begin this process.
First, the United States recognizes and welcomes the emergence of a free, independent and democratic Russia, led by its courageous President Boris Yeltsin. Our Embassy in Moscow will remain there as our Embassy to Russia. We will support Russia's assumption of the U.S.S.R.'s seat as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. I look forward to working closely with President Yeltsin in support of his efforts to bring democratic and market reform in Russia.
Second, the United States also recognizes the independence of Ukraine, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Kyrgyzstan -- all states that have made specific commitments to us. We will move quickly to establish diplomatic relations with these States, and build new ties to them. We will sponsor membership in the United Nations for those not already members.
 
Diplomatic Relations Deferred
 Third, the United States also recognizes today as independent states the remaining six former Soviet republics -- Moldova, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Tadzhikistan, Georgia and Uzbekistan. We will establish diplomatic relations with them when we are satisfied that they have made commitments to responsible security policies and democratic principles, as have the other states we recognize today.
These dramatic events come at a time when Americans are also facing challenges here at home. I know that for many of you these are difficult times. And I want all Americans to know that I am committed to attacking our economic problems at home with the same determination we brought winning the cold war.
I am confident we will meet this challenge as we have so many times before. But we cannot if we retreat into isolationism. We will only succeed in this interconnected world by continuing to lead the fight for free people and free and fair trade. A free and prosperous global economy is essential for America's prosperity -- that means jobs and economic growth right here at home.
This is a day of great hope for all Americans. Our enemies have become our partners, committed to building democratic and civil societies. They ask for our support, and we will give it to them. We will do it because as Americans we can do no less.
For our children, we must offer them the guarantee of a peaceful and prosperous future -- a future grounded in a world built on strong democratic principles, free from the specter of global conflict.
May God bless the people of the new nations in the Commonwealth of Independent States. And on this special day of peace on earth, good will toward men, may God continue to bless the United States of America.
Good night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



879 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Pineapple, After Long Affair, Jilts Hawaii for Asian Suitors

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LANAI CITY, Hawaii

 BODY:
For the last 13 years Kathleen Ruaburo dressed for work in thick rubberized pants and goggles and spent her days, just as her immigrant Filipino father did, in the heat and the dust picking pineapples on the Dole plantation. Now she dons a crisp white jacket with gold buttons and sets tables for wealthy tourists at the new Manele Bay Hotel here.
Mrs. Ruaburo's transition tells the story of pineapples in Hawaii. The crop that symbolizes this state and for decades has been a mainstay of the islands' economy is almost gone. Hawaiian pineapples can no longer compete in the world market. 
 Over the next 18 months, crews will harvest the last planting on this island, once the largest pineapple plantation in the world. Then the fields will go to alfalfa and oats, and the pineapple crews will either have to accept jobs in two new luxury hotels or leave the island for work. It is a future that some welcome and some fear on this tiny island, where 2,144 residents still live an isolated plantation life that has scarcely changed since James Drummond Dole started growing pineapples here 69 years ago.
A big worry is that the island's economy will be just as dependent as ever on one industry. When the hotels were first proposed, pineapple cultivation was expected to continue and tourism was intended as a way to diversify the types of jobs here. But gradually, Dole managers said, it became clear that pineapples were no longer profitable enough.
Seventy-two miles away in Honolulu the Dole Packaged Foods Company on Dec. 1 began laying off about 500 workers at the big cannery near downtown that has processed the Lanai fruits for more than half a century. Its largest competitor, Del Monte, ended canning almost a decade ago. Only one canner remains in Hawaii, the Maui Land and Pineapple Company, which produces private labels for supermarkets. The Dole brand will stay on the shelves, but the pineapples will come from its plantations in Asia, as some do now.
Some Hawaiian pineapples will be grown for local consumption and to provide fresh fruit to markets on the West Coast of the mainland, a trade that remains profitable. But Michael F. O'Brien, general manager of Dole Hawaii, says Hawaii can no longer compete in the much larger world market for canned pineapple and juice because labor is cheaper in Thailand, the Philippines and other countries.
 
Effect of Labor Costs
 By 1990, Hawaii's share of the world market had shrunk to 10 percent, he said, citing labor costs: a picker here makes as much as $8.23 an hour, compared with $6 a day in Thailand, which grows 40 percent of the world's pineapple supply.
After years of declining production here, the decision to plant one last crop was made last year. The fading of pineapples parallels the extraordinary growth of tourism in Hawaii. As recently as 1955, pineapple sales were more than double the $55 million tourism contributed to the islands' economy, and the pineapple industry employed more than 12,000 people. But by 1990, tourism had grown to a $9.4 billion industry, dwarfing the $216 million brought by pineapples, where employment had shrunk to only 3,450.
Nowhere has this collapse been more difficult than here on Lanai, the sixth-largest Hawaiian island, a dot on the map just west of Maui. The island remains a living museum of old Hawaii, an earlier day without traffic lights, parking meters or Burger Kings.
 
Growth of Industry
 Workers live in small tin-roofed bungalows; there are three markets, one gas station, a post office and a couple of cafes along a grassy central square lined with towering Norfolk pines, where the elderly gather to "talk story." The island's residents are mainly descendants of the Filipino and Japanese immigrants who were brought here by James Dole to start his plantation.
Although pineapples were cultivated in the late 19th century for shipment to California, the industry did not really grow until Mr. Dole began to can them in 1903. Nearly all the island is owned by the Dole Food Company, which has its headquarters in Los Angeles.
The future arrived in 1985 when David H. Murdock, the Los Angeles financier, took control of Castle & Cooke Inc., which until this year was the parent company of Dole Food but is now a subsidiary. He set out to diversify Lanai's economy by building two hotels, the 102-room Lodge at Koele and the 250-room Manele Bay. With their Chinese antiques and inlaid floors, the hotels, where room rates begin at $275 a night, brought a new world to an island of pineapple pickers.
Frances Pagay, who started as a laborer, is now a concierge at Manele Bay, doing a job that most Lanaians had never even heard of before. She says she enjoys the new work, "but sometimes I wish I could get back in the fields -- this is a lot more stressful than picking pineapples." Almost her entire family has switched from Dole to the hotels; her mother, Tereza Ayonayon, works in landscaping, her brother Anthony Ayonayon tends bar and another brother, Frankie Pagay, works as a painter at the Lodge.
Shirley Alboro, who now does room service at the Manele Bay Hotel, says she welcomes the change after 14 tough years in the fields, even if it has meant a cut in pay. Food and housekeeping jobs mostly pay about $4.25 an hour, plus tips, well below the $8 an hour that pickers receive. "That was really hard work," she said.
And Joe Felipe, who spent 20 years as a paymaster for Dole, now spends his evening bartending at the Lodge, debating the finer points of pinot noir and carbernet with rich lawyers and doctors from California.
 
'Pineapples and Kids'
 Some have welcomed these changes. "We used to export two things, pineapples and kids," said A. Duane Black, administrator of the Lanai Community Hospital. "We had become an island of older people. Kids left after high school. We are looking more like a regular town these days."
But many others fret over what development will do to the island's traditions, and the social dislocation that newcomers are causing.
Goro Hokama, now 62, can remember working in the fields with his mother when he was 10 years old, when the town had only one paved road. He is now both chairman of Local 142 of the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union, which represents the Dole workers and the new hotel staffs, and the elected councilman representing Lanai on the Maui County Council.
The union at first welcomed the hotels to broaden the local economy. But Mr. Hokama said he was dismayed that Mr. Murdock, despite earlier assurances, announced last year that Dole would phase out pineapples because of the "bleak" outlook for that crop.
"So we are back to the old days," he said. "There is no choice. If you want to stay on the island, you must work for the hotels. In that sense we have not made progress." Mr. Murdock's efforts to spruce up the island and turn it into a haven for wealthy visitors, he said, are misplaced.
The company plans to build a golf course near the Manele Bay Hotel and sell off plots around it for million-dollar estates to mainlanders.
"He does not understand the history of this island," Mr. Hokama said, adding that when he was a child the plantation supervisors used to live across a boundary line marked by Queen Street, where the children of workers were forbidden to play. "By creating this kind of subdivision, we will be going back 50 years."
Mr. Murdock's chief nemesis is Ron McOmber, a local contractor who migrated here from California 20 years ago and is president of Lanaians for Sensible Growth, a group that has pressed for tighter environmental controls and other concessions from Dole.
"The whims of this company are going to supersede the community," he said. "The second and third generations on this island won't have anything to say about their home. We need to insure that when all these M.B.A.'s are gone, there is a semblance of Lanai left."
Mr. McOmber and others say they are offended by hotel advertising that promotes Lanai as "Hawaii's Private Island," as though the residents were mere plantation slaves.
Mr. Murdock, who has a reputation for ruthlessness and quickly turning over properties for fast profits, is viewed with suspicion by many residents. Tensions have been such that Mr. Murdock published an open letter to Lanaians on Oct. 22 describing himself as a "caring businessman" who "has been fair and honest since that day I arrived on your island."
In the letter, he said that he had wanted to keep the pineapples, but that became impossible when "we started to sustain major losses." He also said that because of the resort investments, a broader range of new jobs had been created, absorbing all the pineapple job losses. He wrote that 75 percent of the hotel staff were Lanaians or former residents who had returned.
For all its rigors, there is a certain comfortable reliability about the pineapple plantation life. The Dole whistle blows at 6:30 or 7 A.M. and everyone knows the work will start an hour and half later. Unlike in the hotels, no one has to work at night, over weekends and there is a long break over Christmas and other holidays.
Crews of 32 pickers don thick pants and special sleeves to protect themselves against the spiny plants and walk down the rows quickly snapping off the fruit, twisting off the crown and tossing it up on a conveyer belt in almost one fast wrist motion.
Training people who have spent their lives at such work to adopt the social niceties needed for a luxurious hotel has not been easy. Many of the workers fear contact with guests and resent the regimentation of hotel work, which forbids beards and long hair among men. Some workers speak little English.
This year, 184 Dole workers spent a month taking a state-sponsored course in the finer points of hospitality and language skills, taught by the Maui Community College.
The hotels have drawn back a number of ambitious Lanaians who had gone to Honolulu or the mainland in search of opportunity. One of them is Kurt Matsumoto, who at 34 is the general manager of the Lodge.
Mr. Matsumoto, who picked pineapples as a youth, brings mixed feelings about the new development. "We'd like to see things stay the same, but I know things have to change," he said. "I am willing to see changes as long as we have a say, so that this does not become another Waikiki."
But the biggest concern is that the hotels will fail. Occupancy has been running at only about 35 percent, well below what is needed to turn a profit on an investment that has been estimated at as much as $350 million. If the hotels fail, Lanai -- once the world's pineapple capital -- will be left with just 75 acres of pineapple.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathleen Ruaburo used to pick pineapples on a plantation in the Hawaiian island of Lanai, just as her immigrant Filipino father did. Now, with the demise of the pineapple industry and the ascent of the tourism industry, she sets tables for wealthy tourists at the new Manele Bay Hotel in Lanai City. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); The pineapple-growing days of Lanai are rushing to a close. (The New York Times (pg. A18)
 
Graph: "Fewer Acres to Harvest" shows the number of acres of Hawaiian farmland devoted to pineapple cultivation from '40-'89. (Source: Dole Corporation) (pg. A18)
 
Map of Hawaii showing location of Lanai City. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (85%); MLP (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (65%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (65%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (65%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (65%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PHILIPPINES (94%); THAILAND (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOLE FOODS DIVISION OF CASTLE & COOKE INC; DEL MONTE CORP DOLE FOOD CO INC (85%); MAUI LAND & PINEAPPLE CO INC (65%); DOLE PACKAGED FOODS LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOLE FOODS DIVISION OF CASTLE & COOKE INC; DEL MONTE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII; THAILAND; PHILIPPINES; LANAI (HAWAII) UNITED STATES (96%); PHILIPPINES (94%); THAILAND (93%); ASIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PINEAPPLES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) PINEAPPLE PRODUCTION (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); FOOD PACKAGING (86%); MARKET SHARE (71%); FOOD MFG (69%); PRIVATE LABELS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); PACKAGED GOODS (64%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT JAMES ROSCOE 'ROSCOE' DRUMMOND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



880 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Plan Seeks Bright Future For City Parks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER

 BODY:
More than half of New York City's park system -- by far the largest collection of squares, piazzas and other irregular patches of green in any American city -- would be cast into deep shadow by new buildings if the city grows as fully as current law permits.
The prospect of darkened playgrounds in a city already so cramped that many highway dividers are officially recognized as parks has prompted conservationists to propose major new protections for one of New York's most precious but amorphous assets: sunlight. 
 The new solar access rules, proposed by the Parks Council, a nonprofit group that lobbies to protect open spaces, would be the broadest such regulations in the United States. By taking the average depth to which shadows from nearby buildings now fall, and locking them in, the plan would essentially require current levels of sunlight to be retained when new buildings are constructed near parks.
 
Fruits of Recession
 "It's a sweeping proposal because sunlight is a sweeping necessity," said Michael Kwartler, an architect and the director of the environmental simulation center at the New School for Social Research, who carried out the basic studies for the plan. "It could be easy enough to dismiss, but New York needs all the amenities it can hold onto. And once you give away your sunlight you don't get it back."
While the current fierce recession might seem like a strange time to worry about the shadowing effects of a building boom, city planners, developers and environmentalists all agree that the striking lull in construction provides a rare opportunity to consider such changes.
"There isn't much lemonade to be made from the lemons of recession," said Linda Davidoff, executive director of the Parks Council. "But this building pause gives us all a rare chance to step back and think about what the city of the future should look like. And we certainly think it should have sun in the parks."
 
Complaints Overshadowed
 Few have ever disagreed. The city's original zoning law, the first in the United States, was enacted in 1916 largely in response to the seven-acre shadow cast by the 42-story Equitable Life Insurance Building on lower Broadway, which was built the year before. Yet, while major new buildings must all include shadow forecasts in their planning, the city has no standard rules that guarantee access to sunlight.
If the projected shadows from a single building, like the Coliseum project at Columbus Circle, enrage enough people, then modifications are often required. But in hundreds of other cases, where the complaints may be quieter and the parks smaller, little can be done.
Developers and architects say they are intrigued by the plan, which has not yet been formally presented to the City Planning Department, but they are curious about its practical effects.
"It's a thoughtful proposal and it could have broad effects outside of Manhattan where more development remains likely," said Sherida Paulsen, an architect at Skidmore Owings and Merrill. "We really have to see if it works, if buildings can be designed to accommodate the rules, and if it will make enough of a difference. If the answer to all of that is yes, it's a plan worth considering."
The Parks Council study found that tiny neighborhood parks in lower Manhattan and Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens would be the most seriously affected by development. Staten Island already has height limits that would protect its parks.
 
Unhealthy Growth
 One building in an already densely developed area can turn a heavily used park into a chilly and desolate empty lot. The proposed 730-foot Commodities Exchange Center, one of the largest new projects planned in Manhattan, would add severe new shadows to one of TriBeCa's most vital recreational areas, Washington Market Park, during spring and fall afternoons, according to the project's environmental impact statement.
New shadows would also fall on tennis and basketball courts south of the park during the middle of the day, when they are most heavily used.
"We need healthy development, of course," said Betsy Gotbaum, commissioner of the City Department of Parks and Recreation. "But we need open space just as badly. Parks are not easily replaced. And while it is difficult to quantify, they make as important a contribution to the quality of life here as any building possibly could."
It would be hard to overstate the physical and psychological significance of sunlight to people who live in cities as densely populated as New York. San Francisco, Boston, and Seattle now have regulations that strictly ration emerging shadows from buildings. A new shadow on the edge of a park can turn the neighborhood equivalent of a village square into a deserted stretch of benches. Many small playgrounds on the eastern edge of Central Park, for instance, would receive sun at least an extra hour each day if they were set only 75 feet farther into the park.
 
Sunny Side of the Street
 Dozens of studies have shown that people often chase the sun almost without thinking about it, particularly on a cool day in late fall or early spring. The sunny sides of busy avenues are always more crowded with pedestrians on winter days. The same is true for playgrounds. Even a single new building can create shadows that fundamentally alter the way many smaller parks are used in the busiest hours of the day.
Using computer simulations, the Parks Council compared existing sunlight conditions in hundreds of city parks with the shadows future buildings would create. In districts zoned for medium and high-rise buildings, the study predicts that half the parks could lose important access to light during crucial daylight hours.
"Do we see the absolute value of parks in the city?," asks Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. "Of course. Nobody wants to black the city out. But this study assumes the worst will happen at a time when in fact almost nothing is happening. What it says is if you take five sites around the park and build them to the fullest you will have a problem. Maybe, but it certainly would be hard to find the problems now."
The new solar access standard would be based on current sunlight conditions in parks on Nov. 1 -- a time when weather is moderate enough to permit parks to be widely used in sunlight but not in shade.
Because sunlight changes with direction and time of day, blanket height rules that are now frequently invoked often make little sense. For instance, a six-story building on the northern end of a park will cast no shadows on the park, but the same building placed on the east, south or west sides would.
Mr. Spinola and several developers said they are willing to consider the proposal, but favor current regulations that require city planning officials to consider each new application for construction on its own merits. They also said it may prove technically difficult to build economically valuable properties that fall within sunlight access requirements.
Sponsors of new development projects often argue that shadows cast by their building would be minimal, and often they are right. But the new regulations try, for the first time in the country, to assess the cumulative impact, over time, of shadows from several possible new projects.
The 1.5-acre playground and adjoining schoolyard at Junior High School 22 in the Morrisania section of the Bronx -- at Morris Avenue and 166th Street -- provides a vivid example of how development could affect sunlight in the park.
One or two new or renovated buildings would not matter much. But many apartment buildings in the area are three and four stories high, and could be higher under current zoning laws. If several taller buildings were constructed on the west end of the park, shadows would obliterate the most heavily used part of the playground in the afternoon, the baseball diamond and child play area.
"Shadows are not all evil and they are not all the same," said Sandy Hornick, deputy executive director for strategic planning at the city planning department. "If this can help us find the ones that hurt most, that would be great. But as hard as they tried to change it, darkness and light are still terribly subjective subjects."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARKS COUNCIL (NYC) EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS COUNCIL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ZONING; OFFICE BUILDINGS; PLAYGROUNDS; LIGHT PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (92%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LOBBYING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



881 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: END OF THE SOVIET UNION;
Excerpts From Comments by Yeltsin: 'The People Are Weary of Pessimism'

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a CNN interview in Moscow yesterday with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia. His remarks were translated by CNN from the Russian.
Q. We understand that the briefcase carrying the nuclear codes that Mikhail Gorbachev has carried with him for nearly seven years now is being transferred to you. Could you explain, please, to the world exactly how the nuclear arsenal of the former Soviet Union is going to be managed in this new commonwealth, and will it be you alone who has the authority to launch? 
 A. I think that this is an issue that is of major interest for the international community. This is the issue, rather. Thus, in Minsk and especially in Alma-Ata, all the 11 heads of state of the member nations of the commonwealth agreed on the fact that four members of the commonwealth would discuss the issue independently. The four heads of state, that is, of government of the four nuclear nations -- Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Byelorussia -- did discuss the issue and, at the initiative of Ukraine, the coordinations decided that the control of nuclear weapons should be exercised from just one location and by one single person.
A decision was made that this control, the control of the nuclear button, should be passed by the President of the former union, Gorbachev, to the President of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin. Therefore, the nuclear weapons are going to be controlled by just one person, and I don't want the international community to be worried about it.
Also, we support and we subscribe to all the agreements and treaties which were signed by the former Soviet Union concerning all issues pertaining to nuclear and conventional weapons.
We also agreed that the treaty on the strategic offensive weapons that hadn't been ratified by the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R., this treaty would be ratified by the four Parliaments of the four states on the same day. And the ratification documents would be handled in a due manner.
 
Atom-Arms Transfer
 Q. Has that transfer been made yet from President Gorbachev to you?
A. I think that will take place today at 19:20 tonight, at 7:20 tonight. There will not be a single second after Gorbachev makes his resignation statement, and the appropriate technical facilities will be transferred immediately to the President of the Russian Federation, once Gorbachev announces his resignation.
 
Gorbachev's Resignation
 Q. Mr. President, you've had extensive meetings with Mikhail Gorbachev since the commonwealth was formed. Can you tell us when he first agreed to resign, and do you think he should have resigned sooner?
A. I do not think that he should have done it earlier than he did it, besides February of 1991. In February 1991, he tended to side with the right-wing conservatives. But I don't want to recall this moment extensively now. However, everything that has to do with the effort to create a commonwealth of independent states, which is the transition of the Soviet Union to a new dimension, to a new quality, now that there is no union, then apparently there can be no union president.
He began to speak about it -- first he raised the issue after the Minsk meeting. A more specific date, which is today, was agreed between him and me a few days ago when we had a lengthy conversation after the Alma-Ata meeting.
 
Points of No Return
 Q. Do you think that there was a point at which he could have saved himself or the union? If you had to name one time where President Gorbachev went wrong, what moment would that be?
A. Yes, it was in 1987.
Q. Why?
A. The thing is that I think I can say that there were a few mistakes that he made in that period of time. These were mistakes where he failed to change the tactics and the strategies of perestroika. If he had done it, then perestroika would have gone on, and it would have yielded different results.
Today is a difficult day for Mikhail Gorbachev. And because I have a lot of respect for him personally and we were trying to be civilized people and we're trying to make it into a civilized state today, I don't want to focus on these mistakes.
 
Preparing for Upheaval
 Q. Sir, Russia and all of the commonwealth are facing enormous economic chaos. Great problems lie ahead, economically certainly, perhaps politically. You're going to be freeing prices on Jan. 2 for many goods that the Russian people were used to spending hardly any money for.
What have you done or what are you preparing to do that will ease all of this for your people? And beyond that, how can the United States and other developed nations best assist this process in what was the Soviet Union?
A. Answering your first question, I can say that, speaking about social-security programs, we have conducted such programs. Our key focus was the low-income-bracket segments of the population, such as pensioners, students, single mothers, invalids, World War II veterans and other segments of the population.
We had carried out appropriate social programs even before the liberalization of prices. We raised the minimum wages, bringing them to 300-plus rubles, which is almost a 100 percent increase. And we also increased the pensions and other allowances and student grants, and other things. We also increased the wages as of Dec. 1 for all people employed in the budget industries, such as the education, the health industry, the law-enforcement agencies, the armed forces -- everyone who is in the budget areas. We increased the salary for all the other categories almost by 100 percent, even before we liberalized the prices.
Concerning the material sphere, I can say that one thing is, we removed all restrictions on the growth of salaries. And these restrictions had always been around in the Soviet Union, and people were not allowed to make more money. We removed this bar, we removed this ceiling. Also, there was the so-called consumption fund which was also limited by the union Government. We removed these ceilings from the consumption front -- which is to say that depending on an enterprise's incomes, the enterprise, together with the trade union, can establish a ceiling for the wages for the personnel, depending on the progress of the price growth so as to prevent a drastic decline in the standard of living.
And during this period of time, during the next six months when we are going to free the prices and when they are likely to grow, as we move toward a market-based economy, we are seeking to preserve two-thirds of the minimum consumer basket for all the segments of the population.
. . . The G-7 had a meeting and the G-8 had a meeting, and there were countries getting together in different combinations. And there were states attending such meetings that are not part of the Group of Seven -- all kinds of states -- just to get together and talk about some specific sums to come as assistance to the Soviet Union. So there has been a lot of talk, but there has been no specific assistance, although I should say that there have been several aircraft flown in from the United States the other day and we have already prepared a distribution system, something that we didn't have last year. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Commonwealth's Doubters
 Q. Mr. President, about the commonwealth, Gorbachev has said he thinks the commonwealth will fail. U.S. Secretary of State James Baker has said he has doubts. How do you answer those who think the commonwealth will not work?
A. Gorbachev said that he wished every success to the commonwealth. Let him see what he says tonight. Mr. Baker, when he and I had a four-and-a-half hour meeting here in Moscow, Mr. Baker never told me that.
So those who doubt as to the success of the commonwealth should beware and not be so pessimistic. We are sick and tired of pessimism, which we're had over the last two years. The people here are weary of pessimism, and the share of pessimism is too much for the people to handle. Now they need some belief, finally.
 
Return of Empire
 Q. There seems to be a belief in some corners of this what was the Soviet Union, some worries that a Russian empire is going to replace a Soviet empire that had already once replaced a Russian empire. What assurances can you give to people in Tadzhikistan, Uzbekistan, bordering giant Russia, that Russia is not going to become a bully, nor is Boris Yeltsin?
A. At the very outset, when the heads of state and governments of the three states got together in Minsk, in the city of Minsk, even then we showed convincingly that we had destroyed the empire and we were not seeking to return the empire. And Minsk was to be the future venue for the heads of state to get together and coordinate their interests. Every state is independent and there will be no center, which is another indication that there will be no empire. We have said that the borders between the states will be inviolable, so this is another indication.
There is a lot of proof to prove the point that we are not seeking to bring about another empire.
 
Hard-Line Opposition
 Q. Mr. President, do you expect significant opposition from the far right, and how do you plan to handle that?
A. At this point, the opposition is right in the middle of a very comfortable situation because we are having to take some unpopular measures which the leadership of this country hasn't had the courage to take in the last seven years.
However, all civilized countries, when they move toward a market-based economy, couldn't help but liberalize prices, free prices. So we also were forced to take this measure which is extremely unpopular with the people, and the right-wing forces can use popular dissent and resentment during this period of time. Therefore, we have to be vigilant. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Yeltsin and Posterity
 Q. I would like to know what you would like to be written about you in a biography someday. How would you like to be remembered? We don't know anything about Boris Yeltsin, the man behind the presidency. Would you tell us about yourself?
A. I've already read three biographies. One was published in Great Britain, another one in the United States, and another one in Germany. So I've read these three biographies.
Probably I would like to read someday about myself that I was a sincere person, and where there were mistakes that I made, they had to do with the difficulties that I was experiencing at that time and with the brand-new objectives that I was seeking to accomplish, that we are seeking to accomplish, because we, all of here together, are seeking to build a new society, an unprecedented society, given the history of this country which has gone through these seven decades of the Communism experiment. It's a particularly difficult mission to accomplish, and it's hard to foresee what's going to happen.
So if someone should ever write that I was a truthful and sincere person, both when speaking to my own people, my own nation, and when speaking to my partners and to other countries of the world, then that will be just enough for me to be happy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BELARUS (92%); UKRAINE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BELARUS (92%); UKRAINE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); RESIGNATIONS (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS YELTSIN (92%); MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



882 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Strike at Small Steelmaker Poses a Big Test for a Union

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COATESVILLE, Pa.

 BODY:
In this quiet industrial and farming area about 30 miles west of Philadelphia, a contentious strike by steelworkers may well reveal how much power the union still has and at what cost to the nation's big steel producers.
The strike target is Lukens Inc., a relatively small but profitable steel producer. From Lukens's perspective, the big issue is whether to yield to a demand by the United Steelworkers to eliminate a common industry practice known as contracting out. Under the practice, nonunion workers are hired to perform duties not directly tied to making steel. 
 Union officials insist that their members are far more interested in gaining better wages and benefits that will bring their compensation more in line with their counterparts at larger steel companies. That is a worrisome prospect to most steel producers, whose losses have been mounting.
 
Industrywide Losses Expected
 The strike comes while the steel industry is suffering economically. Prices have been weak through most of this year, with only a modest improvement in the last two months. Industry analysts expect the nation's big steel companies to report losses of more than $1 billion this year.
At the same time, larger steel companies are seeing their market shares erode because of aggressive inroads by smaller, nonunion companies known as mini-mills. Also, demand for steel has diminished with the recession as auto companies cut back production.
The financial health of Lukens has been notably stronger than that of most steel producers. Indeed, it has been one of the shining lights in a battered industry. The company has made its niche in high-quality steel plate, the thick steel sheets that go into everything from tanks and bridges to ships and highway products. But the strike by more than 1,200 members of the steelworkers' union has already crippled production at the one plant that is unionized, and it threatens to cut profits to break-even levels.
 
A Wider Significance
 The Lukens strike also has ramifications beyond the company. It has dragged on stubbornly for more than two months and has sent buyers scurrying to rivals.
Moreover, it will help determine whether the United Steelworkers -- the union that was once so powerful that its strikes virtually brought American industry to its knees in earlier decades -- still has enough influence to force changes in such matters as work rules, let alone pay.
The USX Corporation, the Bethlehem Steel Corporation and the LTV Corporation, among the bigger steel producers, are closely watching the union's strength at Lukens. Those companies are hoping to hold the line on increases in pay and benefits when a new round of labor negotiations starts next year.
"For the union, the central issue is whether they can control their destiny," said John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants in Philadelphia. "This is an important test case that everyone in the industry is watching because it will determine the extent the union will continue to have influence over labor practices at steel mills."
The strike is also an important test for Lukens. The company is as much a rival of the big steelmakers as it is a competitor against the mini-mills, which have lower-paid, nonunion workers and far lower operating costs over all. Lukens executives argue that if the company's labor costs rise to that of the big companies, it would wipe out profits and make Lukens a far weaker competitor against smaller rivals like Citi Steel USA, Gulf States Steel Inc. and Oregon Steel Mills Inc.
But the executives here argue most vehemently against the union's proposal to prevent the contracting of outside workers to perform nonmanufacturing duties, like painting or lawn care. The union has sought to preserve those jobs for steelworkers or to set up a procedure that gives it a voice if such outside workers are to be hired.
At the moment, the company can contract out such jobs as painting and lawn care. The company said that since those services are contracted to outside vendors, it does not know how many jobs are involved. Union officials, however, estimate that several hundred jobs are contracted out.
Lukens executives object strongly to the union demands. "Steelworkers would like for us to pay steelworker wages for anything done in the plant, from mowing lawns to painting buildings," said Robert Schaal, Lukens's senior vice president for administration. "A steelworker's wages in total cost the company about $53,000 a year," he said. "Now you just don't go out and pay that kind of money to a painter. We don't want to see the company destroyed in the long haul by work practices that don't make sense."
Union officials say they are flexible on that issue and that they seek more than anything to have their wages increased to the level paid by the big steel companies. In contract talks two years ago, the big steel companies agreed to increase wages and benefits by 15 percent over the three-year contracts. Workers in those companies viewed those contracts as merely reinstating part of the pay they had lost through concessions in the industry's downturns. But company managements increasingly talk of those pacts as among the foremost reasons for their current financial problems.
Union leaders here say the contract negotiations with Lukens are a continuation of the talks with other steelmakers in 1989 and 1990. The contracts reached during those talks, on average, increased pay and benefits to $28.20 an hour from $24.50 an hour. Lukens said its employees earn $18.50 an hour in wages and profit sharing, but does not disclose how much more its benefits add to the package.
"Lukens, for whatever reason, is saying that the people who work at one of the most profitable steel companies in the country don't deserve the same benefits that everyone else in the industry receives," said Harry Haines, president of Local 1165 of the Steelworkers Union, which represents workers at Lukens.
Furthermore, union officials suggest that higher pay will not affect the profitability of Lukens, which earned $30.9 million in the first nine months of this year, a period in which the six largest domestic steelmakers posted combined losses of $844 million.
"There is no objective reason that's been presented to us that would suggest why they shouldn't step up to the table with the rest of the industry," said Lynn Williams, international president of the steelworkers' organization.
"The solutions to Lukens's problems don't lie with low wages," Mr. Williams added. "There should be a level playing field, and Lukens has simply not been willing to meet the pattern." So strongly does Mr. Williams embrace this issue that he took the unusual step of meeting with Wall Street analysts to discuss the union's position.
It is that image, of a level playing field of wages, that is so troubling to Lukens and some analysts. "If we're going to have a strong steel industry, the union has to recognize that each company has different markets and each should have a contract that is suited to the particulars of that company," said Barbara Crehan, a steel analyst with Merrill Lynch.
Ms. Crehan argues that since Lukens makes only plate steel, the union should negotiate with the idea that the company has vastly different competitive dynamics than companies like USX or Bethlehem.
"Steel plate is being shipped into the United States for $30 to $40 a ton below the commodity price," she said. "Lukens can't be viewed as another Bethlehem Steel, because it isn't."
In the meantime, Lukens's nonunion steel finishing plant 35 miles from here is operating at full steam while the company is struggling to keep production going at the plant here and is sending 85 percent of its prestrike shipments to customers.
Some union leaders and analysts saw the resignation early this month of the chairman, William R. Wilson, and his replacement by the president and chief operating officer, R. William Van Sant, as signs that the company might be a little more flexible.. But the two sides remain far apart on most issues, and the strike threatens to drag on for some time.
Talks had been suspended for several weeks, but were resumed in mid-December.
Whatever the outcome, the strike will be closely watched by all in the industry. "We in the integrated steel companies are looking to see what happens with Lukens," said the chief executive of a larger steel company, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "The result, whatever that might be, will have an impact on all of us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (62%); X (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (72%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (62%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LUKENS INC; UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LUKENS INC (72%); LTV CORP (62%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (62%); MARATHON OIL CORP (62%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (62%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUKENS INC; UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES IRON & STEEL MILLS (95%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



883 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Congress Is Impatient for South Asia Bureau

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Coping with daily changes in the map of Eastern Europe, the State Department is also faced with the task of rearranging Asia -- though only in an organizational sense.
After six years of trying, Congress in August attached to a State Department financial authorization bill the requirement that a new bureau for South Asia be created so that the Indian subcontinent, from Afghanistan to Bangladesh, would get more attention. Now Congress wants the department to stop stalling and act on the legislation. 
 The World Bank has already made a similar change, reflecting the importance of a region where development problems are huge and populations are growing rapidly. More than a billion people live in the region where two nations that are old enemies, Pakistan and India, are thought to have the ability to produce nuclear arms.
At the State Department, South Asia is now part of a larger division, the Bureau of Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs. Members of Congress say that this relegates South Asia to what time remains after the Middle East, the Persian Gulf and North Africa are dealt with.
The State Department asked for a Presidential veto of the legislation, according to Representative Stephen J. Solarz, a Brooklyn Democrat who had led the drive to create the new bureau. President Bush declined to block it, however, leaving the State Department with no alternative to comply.
"They seem to be stalling," Mr. Solarz, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an interview before leaving on a trip to the Koreas. "Among other things, this will put them in violation of the law. Inattention to the region is now going to be compounded by illegality. They are setting themselves up for a major confrontation with the Congress."
At the State Department, an official who spoke on condition of anonymity said there is no question of defying or evading the Congressional mandate. It is just that no one knows where the money will come from to create a bureau that would cover India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives and Afghanistan.
Bureaus require more than just desk officers. Another assistant secretary of state would have to be named to head the division. There would also have to be a new press office and administrative support staff.
State Department officials also challenge the assumption that South Asian nations are neglected in the present bureau, saying that since the Middle East gets so much attention, Assistant Secretary of State Edward P. Djerejian sees Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d often, and can bring his attention to issues affecting South Asia.
Mr. Solarz is not impressed.
"With an incipient nuclear arms race in the region," he said, "with more than quarter of billion people, with another war possible between India and Pakistan, and Afghanistan still unsettled, and with the emergence of a series of new fledgling democracies that need to be supported and sustained, South Asia requires attention."
The new World Bank president, Lewis T. Preston, also thinks South Asia needs more attention. On Dec. 1, the Bank's Asia division was split in two, with vice presidencies created for East Asia and South Asia. An American, Joseph Wood, became vice president for South Asia. An Indian, Gautam Kaji, took over in East Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (56%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); BANGLADESH (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); BHUTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT WORLD BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); BANGLADESH (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALDIVES (79%); BHUTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); VETO (77%); ARMS RACE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



884 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Recession-Ravaged Town Grieves for 6 Children

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE FALLS, N.Y., Dec. 24

 BODY:
Fire Chief James Staffo has been thinking about life and probability lately. Two years ago today, his men failed to rescue three children and their mother from a trailer park fire in nearby Manheim. Then last Sunday morning -- again, just before Christmas -- another fire claimed the lives of all six children of Sheila McLeod on East Monroe Street.
Chief Staffo wonders whether an engine company or a fire chief can be cursed. He tries to comfort the firemen, many of them fathers, who see the dead children when they shut their eyes. His own eyes are puffy from insomnia; their spidery red lines seem a map of grief's back roads. 
 "I'm responsible for these guys here. You stand there and say, 'Why me?' " he asks.
The fire would have been wrenching anywhere. But for this manufacturing town, drained of its young families and much of its vitality by the death of major industries over the last few decades and a severe economic recession, the loss of six children has been devastating.
 
Industry Disappears
 "There's just nothing here," agreed Mary Petkovsek, 66 years old, who attended a memorial service for the children at St. Joseph's Church.
A Mohawk Valley city that once proudly straddled the only East-West waterway through New York State, boasting knitting mills, paper mills, shoe factories, a bicycle factory and the New York's first cheese manufacturer, Little Falls has been displaced by other regions, foreign competition and most of all, technology.
As in countless towns up and down the New York Central railroad lines, indeed all along an East Coast littered with the rusting carcasses of fallen industries, the mid- to late 20th century has in a sense meant the end of Little Falls.
The more graceful homes, in styles ranging from colonial to neo-classical, hint at livelier times.
But now, many of the houses have been divided into apartments, while others, large enough for a family with children, sit strangely silent.
"When World War II came, it knocked everything out," said Terese Kelly, a 65-year-old volunteer at St. Joseph's Church. "All the boys came back and wanted something better."
The population of today is but a third of that at the turn of the century. With 6,000 people, 80 percent of them elderly, one life has a resonance lost in the blare of a city like Manhattan. The community was still stunned by the murder of Greg Jouban, a jeweler killed in his shop two months ago. It was the first murder in Little Falls since 1920.
The McLeods, who came here from New London, Conn., two years ago, were cherished newcomers at a time most people cut a fast path out of Central New York for lack of jobs.
 
500 Jobs Gone
 "If you're from here, you're not going to stay here," said Mary-Carol Aiello, Mayor of the neighboring community of Herkimer. Miss Aiello noted that one of the few large employers in the area, the Remington Arms Company, had lost about 500 jobs over the last few years. Small businesses, like the butcher shop her family ran for generations, have had to close down in recent years.
Despite, or perhaps because of, the hard times, people here help one another. Miss Aiello's office was one of two that had been gathering Christmas presents and food for the McLeod children. The local social-service agency had suggested the family as the area's neediest, giving the office a list of the children's ages, likes and dislikes, without identifying them. The donors only learned the children's names after the fire, when they compared the McLeod children's ages to those on the presents they had wrapped.
"Each child had 10 to 12 packages of gifts," toys, jackets and sweatsuits, she said. "It was to have been an overwhelming Christmas for them."
The three elder children -- Douglas, 10, Jonathon, 9 and Christopher, 8 -- were to play the three wise men in the Christmas pageant at St. Joseph's Church. Instead, their costumes were draped over their chairs during tonight's performance. The younger children were Shannon, 5, Kelly, 2, and Daniel, 1.
 
'They Just Loved Life'
 The Rev. Charles Celeste, who officiated at a memorial service for the children Monday night, said they were chosen to play the wise men "because of who they were: friendly, outgoing. They just loved life."
"These six children have given the greatest gift of all: their lives," Father Celeste said, waving his hand over the six small coffins beside him on the altar. In the pews, the family's friends, teachers, neighbors and acquaintances sobbed, many of them embracing Miss McLeod and stroking her face. Chief Staffo and his men crossed themselves and prayed for absolution.
Even people who have never met the McLeod children seemed near tears in discussing the fire. Three local agencies set up telephone hot lines offering emotional support to people mourning the children.
In coming here, Miss McLeod, who is 30, had hoped to give her children precisely the kind of affordable community life they could never know in a big city. Friends said she had been struggling without child support from the father of her first four children, who lives in Michigan and was not known to visit them.
 
Starting Anew
 The family thrived in this depressed and yet humane community. Here, the McLeods could afford a one-family house that Miss McLeod was slowly restoring under an agreement with the landlord. She painted the walls, got the furnace replaced and planted a vegetable garden.
"I remember seeing her digging up the garden and planting, I think it was squash," said Kimberly Matthews, a Jehovah's Witness with whom Miss McLeod had begun studying last September. "She looked so happy."
And the McLeod family seemed to share the same generous nature as the people of Little Falls. The eldest child, Douglas, learned to swim at the public pool, and saved up his pennies to offer the lifeguard a pizza at the end of the season. Miss McLeod, upon learning her children were dead, offered to donate their eyes, which were too damaged in the fire to be used. She donated the Christmas gifts she had bought them to other needy children.
The area has "a decency to it that you never find in New York City," said Joe Dowd, the fast-talking city editor of The Utica Observer-Dispatch, himself a transplanted Brooklynite. "And that's despite the fact that they're watching their world as they knew it fall apart around them. I don't ever remember a traffic jam here, or shouting a curse word out of my car window," he said."
Mr. Dowd is convinced, however, that Little Falls's future depends on drawing back industry and young lives.
"This is a place without a lot of prospects," he said. "It's been through a lot. Time has passed it by." Now, it has few resources of its own. "Some outside force will save it. Or it won't be saved."
The morning after the memorial service, Miss McLeod flew home to Buffalo from the Rome-Utica Airport with her children's six small coffins. Mrs. Matthews, her friend from the Jehovah's Witnesses, said the mother felt she had nothing to keep her in Little Falls anymore.
Tonight at 6 P.M., the Little Falls Volunteer Fire Department rang its bells, and the city and its residents shut all the lights, in memory of the children it lost.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Outside the Little Falls, N.Y., home where a fire on Sunday morning claimed the lives of Sheila McLeod's six children, two girls who identified themselves as residents of the town grieved together on Monday afternoon. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B1); A funeral worker at St. Joseph's Church in Little Falls, N.Y., removing flowers after a community service Monday evening that was held for six children who were killed in a fire at their home on Sunday morning. Six white coffins contained the bodies of the children. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B10)
 
Map of New York highlighting Little Falls (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LITTLE FALLS (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); FAMILY (78%); TRAILER PARKS (77%); TRENDS (69%); TEXTILE MFG (68%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS (68%); TEXTILE MILLS (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING (68%); CHEESE MFG (68%); PAPER MILLS (68%); APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (68%); FOOTWEAR MFG (68%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN JOHN MAJOR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



885 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: RETAILERS REPORT SALES FELL SHORT OF DIM FORECASTS

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Retailers would probably like to forget Christmas 1991. While most merchants had been prepared for a sluggish season, many said sales turned out to be even worse than expected. Even the last-minute shopping frenzy was not enough to give merchants anything to cheer about.
As recently as a month ago, many retailers had hoped to exceed last year's sales by 5 percent. But results through the close of business on Monday indicate that spending will be flat or up slightly in December. The major retail chains are scheduled to release their final monthly sales results next week. 
 "We are disappointed with the season," Stephen E. Watson, president of the Dayton Hudson Corporation in Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
 
'Too Little Too Late'
 Business surged in the final days, and a number of retailers said that Monday was the busiest day of the year. But Mr. Watson said, "In our view, it's really been too little too late." Dayton Hudson, which relies on California for one-third of its business, was hit hard by the slowdown in that state's economy.
This is the third consecutive sluggish Christmas shopping season -- the make or break season for retailers -- and many analysts say this year's dismal results are likely to force thousands of companies into bankruptcy.
The economy received most of the blame for the weak sales, but retailers also said they had no hot product this year. The wave of layoff announcements in the last two months did not help either.
 
Bad News From G.M.
 The General Motors Corporation said last week that it would close 21 plants and lay off more than 70,000 workers, striking directly at consumer's already flagging confidence.
"That was not helpful," said Mr. Watson of Dayton Hudson, which has department stores and Target discount stores in Michigan. Going into the Christmas selling season, Dayton Hudson had planned for sales to increase by as much as 7 percent over last year. But Mr. Watson said sales at the nation's fourth-largest retailer, would be flat or show a small gain for December.
Lasker M. Meyer, vice chairman of Specialty Retailers Inc. in Houston, which operates 165 Palais Royale and Bealls department stores, also felt the announcement by General Motors put a damper on sales in the final week. "It could be totally coincidental, but news like that really makes a strong impression on people," Mr. Meyer said. "It makes them start worrying about their own jobs."
 
Predictions Fall Short
 The chain started the holiday sales season predicting a 5 percent sales increase over last year, but Mr. Meyer said its sales for the period would only equal those of 1990.
In addition to grappling with a drop in consumer confidence, merchants said they lacked a "must have" new product to draw people into stores. One telling sign of the lack of fresh merchandise could be found in the notoriously fickle toy aisles where Ninja Turtles remained a hot product for yet another year.
"It was probably the least exciting merchandising Christmas in recent history," said Julian M. Seeherman, chairman and chief executive of Venture Stores Inc., a Midwestern discount chain with about $1.5 billion in sales. "This year in particular you needed something new to try and break the consumer apathy." Venture's sales are likely to be better than last year, but not up to expectations.
Sales at Sears, Roebuck are also expected to be flat or down slightly for the month, analysts said.
 
Long Lull in December
 Sears, like other retailers said business was strong at Thanksgiving and in the last few days, but quiet for much of December. "For the first two and a half weeks in December, we were soft and somewhat below our expectations," said Matt Howard, senior vice president of marketing for Sears. The stores had a strong finish. "Monday was exceptionally strong," he said.
Mr. Howard said consumers were out in force, but they were simply buying less. "The size of the ticket over all for most retailers is probably smaller this year," he said.
Nonetheless, the number of customers shopping at Sears, and the number of transactions the company processed were up for the fourth quarter.
 
Some Bright Spots
 There were bright spots. With consumers searching for bargains, discount retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the K Mart Corporation are expected to post solid gains. "K Mart had a very good month," said Robert Roth, a retail analyst with Merrill Lynch. The company did booming business on Monday and said it expected sales to be up by 8 or 9 percent compared with December last year.
"Everybody is talking recession and depression; in this store that's not been the case," said Curtis Williams, general manager of a K Mart store in the Altanta area, near Marietta. Business jumped 25 percent on Monday, compared with Dec. 23 last year, he said.
A Wal-Mart spokeswoman said, "We are pleased with sales for the holiday season this year."
The Gap, with its tables full of $36 jeans, $20 turtlenecks and $35 cotton sweaters, is also expected to do well this Christmas.
Merchants like the Gap and Wal-Mart benefited from the twin themes of value and the desire for basic merchandise, both emerged early and dominated consumers quest for gifts this year.
Mr. Howard of Sears said sheets, towels, portable electric tools, exercise bikes, jeans, turtlenecks and terry cloth robes had sold well.
J. C. Penney scaled back its hopes for the month after "business fell apart the beginning of December," said Harvey McCormick, a company spokesman. He said the company expected sales for the month to be flat or slightly better than a year earlier, although analysts felt that Penney's might be down for the month.
 
Last-Minute Rush Is Slow
 Cheryl Engstrom, a spokeswoman for Nordstrom Inc. in Seattle, said sales had not picked up as sharply as the company had anticipated. Although there has been an uptick in sales over the last couple of days, the results are not likely to meet the company's projections for the holiday selling season. "Shoppers have been slower than ever getting off the dime this year, and it looks like some of them may never take off," Ms. Engstrom said.
She said Nordstrom's specialty apparel stores had not done as well as its outlet divisions, Nordstrom Rack and Place Two. "Those have been doing great, which just reinforces the trend that our customers are shopping for price," Ms. Engstrom said.
In a season marked by many sales, retailers continued to cut prices aggressively up until stores closed on Christmas Eve.
 
Sales Before Christmas
 At a Bombay Company home furnishing store at the Oakland Mall near Detroit, the after-Christmas sales tags were being hung on items earlier than planned. "We're pulling out all the stops," said the store manager, Kathy Gurtek.
Such last-minute price-cutting was widespread. "If a competitor's price goes down, we'll tag our price down," said Wayne Inouye, vice president of merchandising for the Good Guys Inc. He said that a competitor, had recently dropped the price of a popular Sony camcorder to $600, which is $100 less than the advertised price a month ago. Good Guys matched that cut and others, a policy that has caused the company's stock price to drop recently.
Even though retailers ordered merchandise carefully this year, they are gearing up for huge after-Christmas sales. Sears will run extensive advertising for its post-Christmas "Best Week to Buy" sale.
Still, some chose to give the most practical gift of all this year, cash. Barry Levine, a 44-year old talent manager in Los Angeles, gave money to his brother, an unemployed engineer. "You can't eat a sweater," Mr. Levine said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (85%); SSI (NYSE) (81%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: K MART CORP; WAL-MART STORES INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP TARGET CORP (85%); STAGE STORES INC (81%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP; WAL-MART STORES INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; BANKRUPTCIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAYOFFS (LABOR) RETAILERS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LAYOFFS (86%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN STEPHEN E WATSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



886 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Numbers Tell Story of Gifts To Neediest

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
Most donations to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund are in round figures -- $10, $50, $100 -- but many checks are for peculiar sums and there's a story behind each of them.
"We are pleased to enclose a contribution of $135 in honor of our daughter's birthday," wrote Sally and Alan Epstein of Rye, N.Y. "Peggy Epstein Tanner will be 34 years old so here is: 
 "$34 for the 34 years
"$1 to grow on
"$100 to attempt to make the support of your appeal a bit more meaningful."
Alfred I. Jaffe of Somers, N.Y,. wrote that "a few years back I hit upon the idea of honoring my wife on our anniversary, Dec. 24, by contributing $2 to the fund for each year of our marriage. So it is with pleasure that I'm enclosing a check for $104 in honor of Mimi Jaffe, who doesn't need a trinket or a doodad for a present."
 
The Sum of History
 Many contributors have decided on a sum by taking into account the long history of the Neediest Cases Fund. "I am pleased to to be able to make the enclosed contribution of $160 toward this year's appeal," wrote Theodore S. Smith Jr. of Geneva, N.Y. "I chose this figure because it is the 80th anniversary of the Neediest Cases fund and because it is the 40th year I have given. My gift the first few years was in the memory of an older man, a friend of our family who had died before his time because of an unfortunate life. On this, the 40th anniversary of my first gift, I again honor the memory of W.L.S."
Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then the publisher of The New York Times, the Neediest Cases Fund has raised money for New York's sick, poor, and disabled. What began as the "Hundred Neediest Cases" has expanded to meet needs of thousands of individuals.
As in the past, The Times is covering all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected can be passed directly to seven charities, which provide food, clothing and housing. The seven charities also use the money to provide job training for the disabled, counseling for substance abusers, child abusers, and services that address the innumerable problems confronted by the victims of AIDS.
 
A Dollar a Day, or a Year
 In determing the size of their contribution, Dennis Appleton and Leslie Eisenberg of Lynbrook, L.I., settled upon one of the most traditional, and generous manners of calculation. "Although we are experiencing the effects of the current economic slump, as are so many people, we feel fortunate and privileged that we can still afford our annual $365 contribution," they wrote. "This 'dollar a day' donation is insignificant to our lives when compared to the good use to which it can be put for those who are truly in need."
Eric Zielenziger of Great Neck, L.I., sent in $45, representing one dollar "for every year I have been in the United States after having survived the Holocaust in Europe."
Finally, Lion and Mae Koppman of Jackson Heights, Queens, used two celebrations to help determine the amount of their contribution. "We recently celebrated or 43d wedding anniversary," Mr. Koppman wrote. "A few days before we marked my 71st birthday. Together they make 114. Here is a check for $114 with a wish that everyone mark events with a check to your worthy cause."
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,272,317.47
Recorded yesterday . . . 68,400.00
 
Total . . . $2,340,717.47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MARRIAGE (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



887 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty Haunts Former Pan Am Workers

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
This was the Christmas that Herman Kobetitsch and 10,000 other Pan Am workers hoped they would never have.
Out of a job at the airline, which shut down three weeks ago, Mr. Kobetitsch has little except memories to show for his 35 years as a mechanic. 
 He has lost most of his medical insurance, is unsure whether there will be any money left from the airline's liquidation to pay any severance and is worried about his pension because the Pan Am fund was short about $900 million.
Mr. Kobetitsch will soon get unemployment insurance of $280 a week, but that is far short of the almost $700 a week he earned at Pan Am.
As for finding another job, Mr. Kobetitsch, who is 53 years old, is not optimistic. "To get a job at my age; it's almost nonexistent," he said. "With Eastern folding, the Midway layoffs and us, there must be at least 20,000 mechanics looking for jobs."
 
A Shared Predicament
 Mr. Kobetitsch's predicament is shared not only by many of the 10,000 workers who went down with Pan Am, most of them in or from the New York area, but also by those of Eastern Airlines, whose demise threw 18,000 people out of work last January, including 1,350 workers at La Guardia, and of Midway Airlines, which closed down Nov. 14.
Mr. Kobetitsch has asked the owner of a local auto-parts store, someone he knows, for any kind of job. "The guy laughed," he recalled. The man said he could not even hire his own cousin, who had also lost a job at Pan Am, because of slow sales caused by the recession.
So Mr. Kobetitsch now spends much of his time at home in Ozone Park, Queens. He and his wife, Rose, like to look at photos of themselves in Hong Kong, Bangkok and Hawaii, and of a trip around the world the family made in 1982 on free passes from the airline. He also looks fondly at his several citations for outstanding work.
 
Waiting for 'the Crunch'
 Despite his troubles, Mr. Kobetitsch has it better than many other Pan Am workers. At least "the children are all grown," he said, with jobs of their own.
And his wife has found work four hours a day as a school aide at $8 an hour. "For the next six months, we're O.K.," he predicted, referring to his savings and expected unemployment benefits. "After that, the crunch comes."
After Pan Am filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code last January, its unions were able to get some protection for their workers in case of a shutdown. Most Pan Am employees will still get medical coverage for catastrophic injuries under a plan worked out last spring.
But at this point, it is uncertain whether workers will get any severance or other pay owed for vacations and the like. As a group, the employees represent one of many administrative claimants in bankruptcy court.
 
Unions Do What They Can
 Meanwhile, union locals such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 732, which represents 5,000 of the 6,000 Teamsters who lost their jobs at Pan Am, are doing what they can to ease the blow.
George Miranda, president of the local, and some of his staff are trying to set up a job bank, but so far the pickings have been slim.
He said some travel agencies had called looking for laid-off sales reservation people, offering to pay $6 to $7 an hour -- about half what workers were earning at Pan Am.
Some Pan Am employees, like Doris Sheehan, a ramp-service worker for 23 years, are still reeling from the shock of the shutdown. "We put everything on hold," she said. "We're still in a state of shock on what we want to do."
Others, like Hal Thomas, a senior technician for 19 years, are eager to go back to school and retrain. "Maybe I'll become a real estate broker," he said. "Now that it's over, we have to get on with our lives."
 
Few Openings Elsewhere
 Many workers did not wait to start looking for jobs. One man, insisting that he not be identified, said he had been circulating his resume for two years and in that time not one job he was offered would have paid anywhere near the income he was making at Pan Am.
Kathleen Thorp, an administratrive specialist for 23 years, said she had tried to submit her resume at American Airlines' office at Stewart Airport in Newburgh, N.Y.
"They wouldn't even take it," she said. "There are no jobs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR AIRLINES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PARAEDUCATORS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); CHILDREN (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (62%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



888 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Where the Boom Is in Health Care

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
A decade of rapid growth in home health care has forged a $15 billion industry with more than 12,500 companies and not-for-profit services. Many experts expect even faster growth in years to come as home treatment proves effective for a growing range of acutely ill or disabled patients whom doctors would once have insisted on hospitalizing at great cost.
The services range from traditional visiting-nurse associations to a host of entrepreneurial start-ups like Calldoctor Inc., a San Diego-based mobile emergency-room service. "We think it is going to be the fastest-growing business segment from the mid-1990's until well into the next century," said Gerald Celente, director of the Socio-Economic Research Institute of America in Rhinebeck, N.Y. "Most products and services for the home-health-care market haven't been invented yet."
 
New and Complex Services
 Most home care continues to involve chronic problems that are not life-threatening and are expected to affect more and more Americans as the population ages. But physicians at the frontiers of home health care are also expanding their work to include some stunningly acute and complex cases. 
 In Chicago, a 6-month-old infant with spinal cord injuries so severe that she cannot suck, cry, eat, breathe or move on her own was discharged from a hospital intensive-care unit and sent home. There, machinery run by nurses and her family has aided her growth. Her doctor hopes new technology will one day restore some of her lost abilities.
Some of the home patients are being pushed out of hospitals that need their beds for other people with more severe or immediate problems. In other cases, patients whom hospitals would gladly keep are going home to save money, recuperate faster and avoid exposure to hospital-based diseases. Still others are relying on home care to avoid going to hospitals for even initial treatment.
The home-care trend should be stimulated by recently proposed changes in Medicare compensation that would more than double Government payments for doctors to visit Medicare patients at home. But even without such incentives, health industry analysts say, the double-digit growth of the last few years is likely to accelerate as those born after World War II grow older.
The experts prefer to discuss trends rather than numbers because dependable financial data are hard to come by. Only a handful of companies publicly report earnings and revenue.
The $15 billion estimate for total spending on home medical-care services and equipment last year is a projection based on statistics from Government-financed programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, that serve patients who are elderly, disabled or extremely poor. About one person in 10 who saw a doctor last year needed some form of home care, according to the American Medical Association.
 
Abuses and Frauds
 The industry's growing pains have recently attracted more attention than its prospects. Last month, the Health and Human Services Department moved to clamp down on abuses of the Medicare system by medical equipment suppliers who sell their products for home use. More than 70 individuals and equipment companies have been convicted of fraud and other crimes involving inflated equipment costs, which total about $1.2 billion or roughly 2 percent of Medicare's annual budget.
The Government is also challenging a practice among some home-care companies of paying doctors to monitor therapy for the companies' patients. Caremark Inc., a Chicago-based subsidiary of Baxter International Inc., is the subject of a criminal investigation involving the practice. The Government says the practice may have operated as system to funnel kickbacks to Caremark.
Caremark has stopped such payments but defends them as legal within the vague guidelines Washington and the states have given the largely unregulated industry. More to the point, according to many doctors and home-care advocates, such payments represent necessary compensation to encourage doctors to oversee the increasingly complicated problems pateints are dealing with in their homes.
Home-care advocates complain that even with the new Medicare guidelines, the Government does not pay doctors for telephone consultations with home patients -- the most efficient way to handle most situations. Private insurers may authorize such payments case-by-case, but such compensation is not yet common.
Given the policy makers' wariness about supporting new home-care services, entrepreneurs like Dr. D. Gresham Bayne, founder of Calldoctor, face difficulty in proving the value of their ventures.
 
Emergency Service
 Calldoctor's vans, each staffed by a doctor and a technician trained to handle a variety of functions otherwise performed by a battery of hospital workers, contain most of the same equipment found in an emergency room, including X-ray machines.
When a Calldoctor physician decides a patient requires hospitalization, the company telephones in information that allows the patient to avoid waiting in an emergency room or admissions area. In other cases, a Calldoctor visit replaces a trip to the hospital.
Recently, Dr. A. Chris de Laurier, the company's medical director, answered a call at a small hotel room that is home to a woman whose legs were amputated. The woman, who usually goes to the emergency room of the local hospital when she is ill, was treated for severe bronchitis and a sinus infection in her room.
Calldoctor says its average charge of $200 is nearly 70 percent less than the basic charge at emergency rooms in the San Diego area. Patients also avoid the cost of the trip to the hospital, which can be as much as $350 in an ambulance.
The company, just five years old, spent three years designing the layout of its Ford vans. Dr. Bayne hopes to take it nationwide next year.
 
Rehabilitation Specialist
 Another new home-care company, Wellmark Healthcare Services Inc., based in the Boston suburb of Westwood, focuses on the rehabilitation of patients who have been severely disabled by illness or injury. "People are being discharged quicker and sicker from hospitals," said Jessica Robins Miller, a Wellmark social worker who had worked in hospitals for 13 years.
The company's teams include physicians, rehabilitation nurses, physical and occupational therapists and social workers. As in many other home-care programs, Wellmark puts more emphasis than most hospitals and clinics on recruiting patients' relatives, friends and employers as participants in the recovery. "You are more involved in all aspects of their lives," Mrs. Miller said.
The company points to case histories to suggest that patients often recover faster and more thoroughly than they would in a hospital. Mrs. Miller described the case of a 13-year-old boy who lost part of his left leg and part of his hand in a train accident. She said he had recently returned to school after only two months of intensive therapy and counseling from Wellmark in his home.
 
Home-Infusion Services
 These new ventures hope to duplicate the record of home-infusion services. These dominated the industry's expansion during the 1980's and are still growing at an impressive, though slower, 15 to 20 percent rate.
Millions of patients who would have stayed in hospitals to receive infusions of pain killers, antibiotics, intravenous nutritional supplements and anti-cancer drugs instead receive them through increasingly compact pumps at home under the supervision of expert nurses.
Medicare still does not cover home infusion for many drugs, but a growing number of private insurers do. The home-infusion companies' biggest allure has been savings of 30 percent or more compared with similar therapy in hospitals.
Home infusion technology continues to improve. Executives at the Ross Laboratories subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories Inc. in Chicago cite new pumps with better electronic sensors and miniature bellows that allow more precise control over the flow of medicine. Thw I-Flow Corporation of Irvine, Calif., is selling a portable infusion system that can deliver up to four separate medicines at four different rates and be reprogramed by a doctor by telephone.
Baxter International remains the giant of the business. It has long dominated the market for portable dialysis equipment that is used to cleanse the blood of patients suffering from kidney failure. Most other home- infusion companies are known for their regional strength or their focus on particular illnesses, including AIDS, hemophilia and high-risk pregnancies.
"This business has such a tail wind, that it's currently accommodating the growth of a number of companies," said John F. Hindelong, an analyst who tracks more than a dozen home-infusion companies for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "There are pockets of intense competition but that's the exception. We don't expect aggressive price competition for a couple of years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many patients once treated in hospitals are now cared for at home by the rapidly growing home-health-care industry. One service, Calldoctor, dispatches a doctor and a technician to a patient's home in a van equipped with much the same equipment found in hospital emergency rooms. (Alan Decker for The New York Times) (pg. D1); Dr. A. Chris de Laurier, a physican for Calldoctor, recently examined an ailing man at home, saving that patient the time, trouble and cost of a visit to a doctor's office or a hospital emergency room. (Alan Decker for The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS HEALTH CARE (90%); VISITING NURSES (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TRENDS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); MEDICAID (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



889 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
On Buffing and Polishing Even the Stereotypes

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
In the long, healthy career of Claude Chabrol, from his New Wave classic "The Cousins" through his sumptuous "Madame Bovary," which opened yesterday, "Inspector Lavardin" is a trifle. But this lighthearted detective movie shows that trifling entertainments do not have to be hack work. This wily film has first-rate appeal and plays into some cherished stereotypes about the French: it is blase, stylish, filled with effortless charm.
Though the film appeared in France in 1986, it has its United States premiere today at the Eighth Street Playhouse. The delay may reflect the film's slightness and the economics of distributing foreign films, but not its popularity abroad. This is, in fact, a sequel. The first Chabrol film to feature the urbane detective Lavardin was "Poulet au Vinaigre," which was released in France in 1985 and has yet to appear in the United States. 
 The plot involves a devout and wealthy Roman Catholic writer who is found murdered on a beach with the word pig written on his back. When Inspector Lavardin arrives to investigate, he discovers that the widow, Helene, is an old flame he hasn't seen in 20 years, a well-preserved beauty of elegant style and almost catatonic personality.
She and her family seem a strange match for the religious writer. Her daughter by a previous husband is a sweet 13-year-old schoolgirl by day, a nymphet by night. Helene's brother announces that since his wife's death he has preferred Romeos to Juliets and says, in English, that he is "the gay widower." His hobby is collecting painted glass eyeballs. Here is a classic situation: put a detective in a house where everyone has something to hide. Whether the family secrets are related to the murder is another question entirely.
As Lavardin, Jean Poiret has some resemblance to the middle-aged Laurence Olivier, with playful icy blue eyes and distinguished gray hair. He also has, as the final credits tell us, a wardrobe by Lanvin. Don't ask questions about detectives' salaries; doesn't everyone dress well in France? He underplays his charm as he snoops around the house and the countryside with his sidekick, whom he fondly calls Watson.
Despite such touches, there is nothing self-conscious about this cleverly sophisticated but straightforward use of the detective genre. Perhaps that is why, when the murderer is revealed, the episode is too Hitchcockian for its own good. It would take a lot more irony or homage to pull this off.
But the cast never lets the film down. Bernadette Lafont, something of a New Wave icon, looks appropriately frozen as Helene, with her pearls and perfect blond hair and blank, lost-in-the-past expression. Jean-Claude Brialy is wonderfully ambiguous as the brother, whose increasingly obvious lies may be for good or sinister purposes. And Mr. Poiret's performance as Lavardin is wry but never mocking -- just what a charming trifle needs.
 
Inspector Lavardin
 
Directed by Claude Chabrol; written by Dominique Roulet, based on an original idea and adaption by Mr. Chabrol and Ms. Roulet, in French with English subtitles; director of photography, Jean Rabier; edited by Monique Fardoulis and Angela Braga-Mermet; music by Matthieu Chabrol; production designer, Francoise Benoit-Fresco; produced by Martin Karmitz; released by MK 2 Productions et Films A2. At the Eighth Street Playhouse, at Avenue of the Americas. Running time: 100 minutes. This film has no rating.
 
Jean Lavardin . . . Jean Poiret
Claude Alvarez . . . Jean-Claude Brialy
Helene Mons . . . Bernadette Lafont
Max Charnet . . . Jean-Luc Bideau
Raoul Mons . . . Jacques Dacqmine
Veronique Manguin . . . Hermine Clair
Marcel Vigouroux
Pierre-Francois Dumeniaud
Francis . . . Florent Gibassier
Buci . . . Guy Louret
Volga . . . Jean Depusse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INSPECTOR LAVARDIN (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MURDER (87%); FILM GENRES (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); WRITERS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (63%); 

PERSON: CHABROL, CLAUDE; JAMES, CARYN CLAUDE CHABROL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



890 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 21; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Tartabull Negotiations Centering on Angels

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Danny Tartabull, whose 1991 offensive statistics were better than Bobby Bonilla's, remains the most attractive player left in baseball's free-agent market, and his prolonged availability has created one of the more intriguing developments of the off season.
Despite an angry confrontation between his agent and the Angels' general manager, California remains the team most likely to sign Tartabull, but at a price perhaps $2 million to $3 million below prior expectations, a lawyer who has had vast experience with free-agent negotiations said yesterday. 
 "Someone else could come out of the woods and get him, but Whitey is still the primary guy in this," the lawyer said, referring to Whitey Herzog, the Angels' general manager. "Whitey is clearly talking to Tartabull's agent."
The agent, Dennis Gilbert, has declined to discuss his negotiations for Tartabull, but earlier this week he said three teams remained in contention for the outfielder, who last season batted .316, hit 31 home runs, drove in 100 runs and led the American League with a .593 slugging percentage.
 
Rangers and White Sox Interested
 The other two teams apparently are the Texas Rangers and the Chicago White Sox. Tom Grieve, the Rangers' general manager, said yesterday that he and two other club officials had a "serious discussion" with Tartabull and Gilbert in Los Angeles last Saturday. He said he expected that they would have additional "serious discussions."
Bonilla received $29 million for five years, or $5.8 million a year, from the Mets. Tartabull had been expected to lag about $1 million a year and one year behind Bonilla, meaning he would gain a four-year contract in the $18.5 million-$19 million neighborhood.
Gilbert represents both Bonilla and Tartabull, and Herzog verbally assaulted him in a hotel coffee shop at the winter meetings in Miami Beach early this month, accusing the agent of lying to him and using the Angels to get a better contract for Bonilla elsewhere.
Gilbert was stunned by Herzog's attack, especially because they have known each other since Gilbert played in the Mets' minor league system when Herzog operated it.
The lawyer, who spoke on condition he not be identified, echoed the thinking among some people in baseball that Herzog also acted as he did with the Tartabull negotiations in mind, feeling that he could wind up lowering the cost to the Angels of signing the free agent. The lawyer speculated that the savings could be $2 million to $3 million.
Although the lawyer had no specific information from any ongoing talks between Gilbert and any club, he said the prevailing speculation was that Tartabull would now emerge with the kind of offer the Angels made unsuccessfully to Wally Joyner: four years for about $16 million.
The Rangers' economic interest in Tartabull would most likely be tempered by their negotiations with their own outstanding hitter, Ruben Sierra, who can be a free agent after next season. The Rangers have not offered Sierra more than $4 million a year, and they have not offered more than three guaranteed years.
"We're trying to do everything we can to put the strongest team on the field," Grieve said by telephone from Texas. "Having Tartabull would make our lineup better. It makes a lot more sense to spend money on players rather than pitchers."
The Angels need additional hitting more desperately than the Rangers. Texas led American League in runs scored while California was 13th.
The Angels have replaced Joyner and Dave Winfield, their two most productive players, with Von Hayes and Hubie Brooks, both of whom will be returning from injury-plagued, poor-production seasons.
Of the 98 players who became free agents Nov. 12, 34 have signed new contracts (including two with Japanese teams) and 8 others accepted their clubs' offers of salary arbitration, meaning they will remain with those teams. Another free agent, Ron Hassey, joined the Yankees as a scout, leaving 54 free agents besides Tartabull looking for jobs.
Among those who remain unemployed are second baseman Mike Gallego, shortstop Kurt Stillwell, third baseman Mike Pagliarulo, outfielder Mookie Wilson, designated hitters Pete Incaviglia and Alvin Davis and pitchers Dennis Rasmussen, Dennis (Oil Can) Boyd, Kirk McCaskill and Bob Walk.
Baseball's winter season is also approaching another major phase. Beginning Jan. 4, the 159 eligible players may file for salary arbitration. Some of the more noted players eligible are Barry Bonds, Ruben Sierra, Cecil Fielder, Roberto Kelly, Roberto Alomar, Ron Gant, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz, Rob Dibble, Barry Larkin, David Cone, Gregg Jefferies, Doug Drabek and John Smiley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA ANGELS CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); TEXAS RANGERS (83%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (82%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ANGELS CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); TEXAS RANGERS (83%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (82%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); ATHLETES (73%); 

PERSON: TARTABULL, DANNY ROBERTO MARTIN ANTONIO 'BOBBY' BONILLA (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



891 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

 BODY:
The Italians have replaced the Japanese as the No. 1 buyers of art in the world, according to an annual list of the top 200 collectors, appearing in the January issue of Art News Magazine.
In fact, the number of Japanese collectors on the list dropped to 10 from 15, the steepest decline from last year, while those from Germany increased to 18 from 10, the biggest increase. 
 But numbers of collectors do not necessarily reflect their worth. There are 106 American collectors on the list, down from 109. There are only six Italians -- the same number as last year -- but their purchases outranked everyone else, said Art News, which did not report the monetary value of any collection.
It seems the list is something of a barometer of the world's economy. "Germany has not been affected by the recession that hit the United States, or the downturn that some folks in Japan are experiencing," notes MILTON ESTEROW, editor and publisher of the magazine.
A big surprise, he says, was a nearly 20 percent turnover from last year's list -- 39 new names, including HENRY W. BLOCH, the tax man, who collects Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art, and SUSIE TOMPKINS, co-founder of Esprit de Corp. clothing, who collects 20th-century photography.
The list indicates several trends, as Mr. Esterow sees it. He notices a wider spread of buyers in the world and predicts that "we will be hearing more from collectors in Korea and Taiwan." And he perceives an emerging generation of collectors who do their own homework and choose art "they personally respond to" instead of relying on experts or collecting for "status and all the silly reasons."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ART NEWS MAGAZINE; CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (67%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); TAIWAN (74%); JAPAN (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); 

COMPANY: ESPRIT DE CORP (67%); TOMPKINS CO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); TAIWAN (74%); JAPAN (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SALES; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); 

PERSON: SUSIE TOMPKINS (55%); HENRY W BLOCH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



892 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: In the Nation;
Toward the Ideal

BYLINE: By TOM WICKER

 BODY:
Have civil rights laws dealt adequately with racial problems in America? Has all that had to be done now been done? Has the burden shifted to blacks and other minorities to prove that they can compete in the colorblind society that now should exist? At Christmas 1991, many Americans seem to think so.
Witness the white majority's rising opposition to "quotas" -- the national shorthand for affirmative-action programs. "Cultural diversity" -- a catchall phrase for education policies that seem to threaten the dominance of a Western-focused curriculum -- also causes widespread anxiety among whites. Crime has converted white concern for the urban, mostly black underclass into fear and anger. 
 Few if any would advocate a return to state-ordered segregation, the virtual elimination of which in the South has been the great triumph of the civil rights movement. Nor would many Americans favor a revival of voting patterns that effectively excluded blacks from real political power.
But a great many Americans apparently do believe that because of these and other gains, enough has been "given" to minorities. The civil rights crisis, in this view, is over; the nation finally did what the Constitution and decency required, so every American of whatever color now plays -- or should play -- on the same level field.
If anything, these Americans assert, it's now white people who suffer discrimination -- when "quotas" cause them to lose out on jobs or educational and advancement opportunities. And this is not only unfair but unnecessary in this colorblind society, from which legal and official discrimination against minorities already has been eliminated.
This attitude overlooks continued, documented discrimination in bank and auto loans, housing availability, education, employment, economic opportunities, the most vital areas of life -- and not just in the South. Now it's disclosed that thousands of minority businesses have gone under because of court rulings that state and local government preferences designed to benefit them are unconstitutional.
In Philadelphia alone, Michael deCourcy Hinds has reported in The New York Times, black businesses saw their share of the city's contracts drop from 25 percent to 3.5 percent in fiscal 1990, and decline in value from $65 million to $21.3 million. This followed a court decision outlawing a Philadelphia law that set aside a share of its contracts for minority enterprises.
The picture is much the same elsewhere, as the result of a Supreme Court decision in 1989 that invalidated a similar law in Richmond, Va. The Court held that the racial set-aside deprived white contractors of the equal protection of the laws.
Many minority businesses -- though some were ill managed and most were inexperienced -- could not survive without the preferences. Did these disadvantage white competitors and violate the ideal of colorblindness? Or were they, as claimed to Mr. Hinds by Jihad Ali, a Philadelphia contractor who started his minority business with $500 in 1986, "a program to make up for 400 years of injustice"?
The answer is "yes" to both questions. A preference is obviously disadvantageous to those who don't get it -- just as, for 400 years, the preference that went culturally and automatically, even if not legally, to white businesses was historically disadvantageous to black competitors. But if the answer is "yes" only to the first question, the conclusion seems irrefutable that this is not yet a colorblind society.
How can it be "colorblind," how can the playing field be level, if would-be black entrepreneurs have been prevented from gaining the experience and resources to compete equally against whites? If a minority business was awarded contracts when that was legally required, but not after the law was voided, might not discrimination have been involved, at least partially?
And if the ideal is a level, colorblind playing field, how can that be achieved without some assistance to those who need help in competing, while they need it? And who better to lend that assistance than state and local governments, which most crucially affect the lives and livelihoods of Americans?
Many of these jurisdictions are preparing new and improved laws to meet court requirements and base minority preferences on proven discrimination. In a society that's still blatantly color-conscious, that's a necessary step toward the ideal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (76%); CURRICULA (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



893 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Optimists Are the Realists

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For Americans, 1492, 1776, 1862, 1945 and 1991 were the five best years of the past five centuries.
That's making a fairly big claim for this current year, especially when the Gloomy Guses are wailing about hard times, nuclear instability and holes in the ozone layer. 
 But consider reality, as Mikhail Gorbachev had to do in making a Christmas present to the world of his departure. The yoke of Communism has been lifted from a quarter of a billion people in this year, and the threat of its pernicious reach has been lifted from a third of a billion Europeans.
And that's not all: the division of an unnatural empire into its national parts has not only reduced the danger of superpower clash, but has engendered a new rationality in the Middle East and South Africa.
Peace -- real peace -- has broken out; why is nobody celebrating? Democracy has prevailed in its worldwide struggle against tyranny; why are democrats not dancing in the streets?
One reason for the curious reluctance to embrace the reality of the good news is that it has taken months to unfold; one-day victories are easier to grasp for whooping-up purposes. Another reason is that it seems too good to be true, and we don't want to jinx our incipient no-hitter by talking about it.
The biggest reason is that we are in the grip of the Melancholia Industry. This high priesthood of deep pessimism has a vested interest in the status quo of unrelieved worry.
Diplomatic depressives must justify their mistaken past doomsaying about Soviet disunion; political melancholiacs must knock down any outbursts of joy lest incumbents benefit; economic sages feel they must follow the herd of malcontented cows into their double-dipsy-doodle.
This cacophony of serious wailing is amplified by the megaphone of the media. No conspiracy; only the realization that bad news means good ratings and good news means a vast, happy tuning-out.
Moreover, the mild recession has touched the coastal media centers as never before. With layoffs hitting home, the viewer and reader would never know that non-frictional unemployment is much lower than in the recession a decade ago, even allowing for slow growth in the labor force.
As a result, it is unfashionable to be feisty. To be gloomy is to be serious; to be joyful is seen as frivolous or deceptive. That's why leaders are unwilling to appear confident; they fear the appearance of lacking compassion or being out of touch with the upside-down perception of reality.
That's why we foolishly flip over the coin of peaceful transition in 14 freed republics to examine violence in one; why we ignore the exciting potential for private farm and oil development to deplore the possibility of food riots; why we focus at home on the homeless and crime but overlook the liberating breakthroughs in neuroscience, computer education and genetics. That's why, in the world of the winners, you never hear the word "victory."
Such stress on stress warps reality. Let us stipulate that small wars and the poor will be with us; that nuclear spread to terrorists will be cause for concerted action; that earthquakes and floods will happen, and the innocent will suffer.
Now deal with the reality that will change our lives in the run-up to the millennium. Demobilization is real. The troops are coming home all over the world, and all we hear is "Where will they live? Who will give them jobs?" The fact is that tens of millions of able-bodied young people will move out of the inflationary business of war and into the world of productive work.
Here at home, the next generation will be much better off than ours because it will not have to bear the superpower burden of defense. Free of the cost of protecting Japan and Europe, the U.S. can better compete with them.
This was also the year that we stopped a near-nuclear dictator before he could take over the world's oil supply and dictate our inflation and interest rates. The lowest interest rates in a generation will sell houses, attract equity investment and propel the economy.
Freedom shined so brightly in 1991 that too many of us were willing to observe it through a glass darkly. Throw away the filter that obscures reality; this is a glorious moment in history, harbinger of good times to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (74%); RIOTS (74%); BASEBALL (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); LABOR FORCE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); OZONE DEPLETION (57%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



894 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Child Poverty in the U.S. Continues to Grow;
A Misogynist Work

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your Dec. 9 Washington Memo on Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and welfare: If all that were wrong with society were welfare dependency, that problem could be solved by eliminating welfare, something almost every political demagogue since the Depression has proposed. Unfortunately, Mr. Moynihan's insistence that "we were right" and your description of his "worrying out loud about the rise in dependency and the collapse of the family since at least 1965" masks many of the problems in his "explosive paper subsequently dubbed 'The Moynihan Report.' " 
 That report, rather than a piece of balanced scholarship, argued that the black family had been rendered a "tangle of pathology" by its experience of slavery and the failure of its families to raise male children undamaged by family matriarchs. Mr. Moynihan and his staff used and misread a number of scholars, particularly E. Franklin Frazier and Stanley Elkins. Ironically, they cited statistics gathered by the Urban League, a group very concerned with the problems of the black poor.
The report drew scholarly criticism because it blamed all black families for the problems of some families by painting a distorted picture using a small subset of multiproblem families, something pointed out in great detail by Andrew Billingsley in "Black Families in White America." Mr. Moynihan further confused matters by linking welfare dependency and black male unemployment to the high rates of labor force participation of black women to prove the black community was "matriarchal."
In one particularly egregious footnote, he complained about the large number of black women employed as clerical workers in the Department of Labor to suggest that black women pushed black men out of the labor market. The so-called report never took into account the massive change in the demand for female labor that was changing the employment opportunities for all women and the structure of labor force participation for black women, making it possible for them to work as nurses and clerical workers, not just household domestics -- jobs neither available to men nor wanted by them.
The logic of blaming black women's employment for the problems of welfare dependency escaped many of us who found problems in the report. Mr. Moynihan never took up the problems of industrial structure and social change, and never attempted to describe and then explain the problems of all families or all black families in all their diversity.
His report simply implied from the statistic on the number of children in one-parent families that black women were in charge of the black community and out of step with the nation's presumption of male leadership in public and private affairs.
The paper was originally a confidential report intended to appeal to a group of conservative politicians, who would be easily swayed by its distortions. Yet it spawned a major industry of academic scholarship, which dissected and examined poor black families, the work ethic of black men, the gender relations of married black people, the black family in slavery and other possible explanations of the black family.
There is a huge academic literature on the black family for anyone who wishes to go to a library and search the right indexes. It is a standard topic routinely included in review articles on family research. Your statement that "for decades the condition of the black family was seldom discussed in political and academic circles" is inaccurate.
Had Mr. Moynihan's paper been submitted to an academic journal or a learned society, such as the American Sociological Association, many of the inaccuracies, misconnections and distortions would have been roundly criticized, and the author would probably have been asked to make extensive revisions connecting his data to his explanations of the problems of poor black families on welfare.
The problem was that the report carried the authority of the highest levels of government as a foundation for social policy. It also made political uses of poor black people that sound eerily like David Duke's election campaigns. The report created such an explosive mixture of poverty and race that the only public image of poverty is a black image.
The report remains today what it was in 1965 -- a misogynist piece of pseudo-social science that did little to advance our understanding of black families or white families in all of their diverse responses to social change and deindustrialization. Let us hope in his policy making that Senator Moynihan takes time to read some of the more accurate and sophisticated work on families and their problems in order to provide the programs necessary to bring the jobless poor back into the labor force, to provide the working poor with a truly livable income and to create these programs in a context that does not blame women for the problems of men.
 
CHERYL TOWNSEND GILKES
Waterville, Me., Dec. 16, 1991
 
The writer is MacArthur Associate Professor of Sociology and African-American Studies at Colby College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLITICS (77%); MEN (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); RACE & RACISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); PARENTS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GILKES, CHERYL TOWNSEND (PROF); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



895 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: Harkin Seeks to Recall Democrats' History, Though Some Fear It

SERIES: First of six articles on the Democratic Presidential candidates. Next:
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas.

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
There is still a long line for the breakfast buffet grits and refried beans -- when Jim Hightower, the former Texas Agriculture Commissioner, is called on to introduce the featured speaker. He grabs the podium and starts in with the adjectives.
 "This is a guy who is an unabashed, unapologetic, ungentrified, un-Republicanized, old-time, little people's Democrat," Mr. Hightower says, and the crowd lays down its collective fork and starts cheering. "Not just a progressive, but a person who is a-ggressive. This is a guy who knows how to take on these effete elites in the White House: George Herbert Walker Bush of Kennebunkport, C. Boyden Gray of the R. J. Reynolds inheritance and J. Danforth Quayle 3d of Pluto and points beyond." 
The crowd whistles its approval, and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa smiles and acknowledges the applause.
 "I've always believed in that passage out of Corinthians," Mr. Harkin says to the crowd. " 'If the trumpeter blow an uncertain sound, who will follow in the path?' Well, I can tell you with me you won't get an uncertain sound. You may not agree with where I stand, but you'll know what I stand for and what I stand against. And that's exactly how I intend to take on George Herbert Walker Bush."
 He continued: "If you don't remember anything else, remember one thing. I can whip George Bush. If I get in that ring, I can flatten him."
 This mixture of pugilism and politics is typical of Senator Harkin, a man who often seems to be running for President the way other men might pick a fight, with scorn in his voice and the memory of past slights on his mind. But if the style expresses Mr. Harkin's naturally combative personality, it is also one that is tailored to appeal to the core of Democratic voters -- the kind who are disheartened by the party's losses and who tend to turn out for primaries.
 
Replaying the Past

 Appeal to Labor And Liberals
 Mr. Harkin's campaign is built around the assumption that despite the results of the last three elections, a Democrat's best hope in 1992 is to aggressively defend the party's traditions. His hope is that a candidate who can make Democrats feel proud of their party again can win their loyalty -- and their votes.
 "Harkin believes that in bad economic times it is possible to appeal to traditional Democratic constituencies," said Thomas E. Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington. "This means not running away from labor, but embracing it. It means not shying away from more liberal groups, but courting them."
 Playing to labor and to the liberal wing of the party is essentially the same strategy that helped Walter F. Mondale and Michael S. Dukakis win the Democratic nomination, and then lose the general election. Many Democrats worry that history will repeat itself, and Mr. Harkin's tough talk about "whipping" Mr. Bush seems aimed at deflecting such anxieties.
 Mr. Harkin makes a point of trying to distinguish himself from his hapless predecessors, Mr. Mondale and Mr. Dukakis. They were not genuine, old-style Democrats, he suggests, and more importantly, they crumpled under pressure.
 "I believe there is a real hunger in this country to turn away from the policies of the last few years," he told the audience in Austin. "I think that hunger was there in 1988. Then we had a Willie Horton ad, a Pledge of Allegiance ad, a Boston Harbor ad and we didn't fight back, and that was the end of that campaign. I just want you to know this is one candidate who believes in fighting back."
 Conventional political wisdom holds that Mr. Harkin's main rival for the support of the traditionalists of the Democratic Party was Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York; indeed, many politicians had speculated that Mr. Harkin's candidacy would not survive Mr. Cuomo's entry into the race. Mr. Harkin's supporters now hope that he will be the chief beneficiary of the Governor's decision last week not to run.
 Appealing to traditional Democratic constituencies, Mr. Harkin offers a traditional Democratic prescription for solving the country's problems, a back-to-the-future-type program that relies heavily on the ideals of the New Deal. He calls, for example, for the Federal Government to embark on huge public works projects, like the Works Progress Administration efforts of the 1930's, that he says will put millions of Americans back to work. And he advocates passage of a new version of the G.I. Bill, which sent thousands of World War II veterans to college. Under his version, students could attend college free in return for several years of national service in the military, in hospitals or environmental cleanups, for example.
 In Mr. Harkin's down-home, pull-no-punches Presidential campaign, it is clearly the pitch more than the particulars that matter, and the Senator often brushes aside questions about the details of his proposals as if they were beside the point.
 Mr. Harkin, for instance, is a strong advocate of a national health care plan, but asked recently how malpractice would be handled under his proposal, he confessed genially that he had not really considered this issue. Asked how he would finance his public works projects, Mr. Harkin offers generalities. "It is time to stop subsidizing Europe and Japan and bring the money back home," he says.
 This inattention to detail has prompted even some of Mr. Harkin's allies to question whether his program is substantive enough to be seen as credible. But aides to the Senator insist that this criticism is undeserved. Mr. Harkin, they maintain, has purposefully tried to avoid subordinate issues and to focus attention on his major themes.
 "He's been very disciplined in terms of keeping the focus on the message," said Mr. Harkin's campaign manager, Tim Raftis. "He's been criticized for that, but it's a message that communicates with working people and that cuts across geographical, cultural and political boundaries."
 In a primary campaign, candidates tend to talk to the party faithful, and among this crowd, Mr. Harkin's message does seem to touch a chord -- even when it seems slightly out of tune with the setting.
 At a recent luncheon the Senator spoke to the well-heeled members of the Dallas Democratic Forum over pasta with cream sauce in an elegant downtown hotel. It did not seem like a crowd that would be particularly impressed by the Senator's populist oratory, and yet Mr. Harkin gave the same speech he gives before college students and labor unions. "I don't intend to hold George Bush's feet to the fire," he said. "I intend to put him into the fire."
 After the lunch, Alan Kahn, a forum member, said that while he did not necessarily agree with everything Mr. Harkin had said he liked the candidate's spirit. "I think he believes in what he's saying," Mr. Kahn said. "I don't know how far he's going to get with it, but it's refreshing to hear someone that candid."
 
Financing 1992

 A Frontrunner In the Money Race
 One way in which Mr. Harkin's spirited, Bush-bashing campaign has already paid off is in fund raising. Earlier this month, when the Presidential candidates applied for Federal matching funds, he was the best-financed Democrat.
 All individual contributions of $250 or less qualify for matching money. Mr. Harkin, according to his application, has collected $1.1 million in such contributions, and that is more than any of his Democratic rivals had taken in. Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas was second, with $581,000, and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska was third, with $579,000. President Bush has $2.6 million in matchable financing.
 "It was the Clinton campaign that said that money was the first primary," Mr. Raftis said. "Well, they got whipped."
 Whether Mr. Harkin has maintained his early fund-raising edge will not be known until the end of next month, when the candidates have to make a detailed filing to the Federal Election Commission. Both the Clinton and Kerrey campaigns say they have made significant progress in recent weeks.
 Part of Mr. Harkin's early success at fund raising can be attributed simply to the time he has devoted to it. "In the number of events, Tom has probably done twice as many as the others," said Nathan Landow, chairman of the Democratic party in Maryland, where Mr. Harkin's campaign is based.
 Part of it, though, is also a result of Mr. Harkin's direct-mail campaign, which has been surprisingly successful.
 Most of the Democratic candidates this year have shied from soliciting contributions through the mail, a process that requires a large initial investment and that can produce uncertain returns. But Mr. Harkin began a direct-mail campaign immediately upon announcing his candidacy in September.
 Although aides to the Senator decline to give details, they acknowledge that the campaign has produced more money than even they expected. It is being handled by Mal Warwick and Associates of Berkeley, Calif., the same company that handled the Rev. Jesse Jackson's effort in 1988.
 "Tom's message lends itself to mail," said Carter Eskew, a political consultant who has worked on Mr. Harkin's Senate campaigns. "And it is a tremendous advantage to have a good direct-mail program because it gives you a real boost in the beginning when you need matching funds." Contributions solicited through the mail tend to be under $250 and therefore are eligible for matching money.
 Well-known from his Senate campaigns as an aggressive fund raiser, Mr. Harkin does not shun contributions from political action committees, and he is expected to be the major recipient among Democrats of money from such sources. In the last detailed filing that the candidates made to the Federal Election Commission, Mr. Harkin listed $60,000 in such contributions, significantly more than was declared by any other Democratic candidate.
 Mr. Harkin's decision to woo political action money -- some of his opponents, including Governor Clinton and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, have said they would not accept it -- has made him a target for people who are pressing for changes in campaign-finance law. Political action money, which comes from widely diverse sources, including unions and large corporations, has been important in the financing of Congressional as well as past presidential campaigns and this has fostered the impression that elected officials are hostage to special interest groups.
 In keeping with his credo, "Never defend, always attack," Mr. Harkin expresses no doubts about his decision.
 "I take P.A.C money, you bet I do," he told the audience in Dallas. "I don't want to fight with one hand tied behind my back. In George Bush, we are up against the mother of all money machines."
 
Testing the Waters

 New Hampshire Becomes Crucial
 As a native of Iowa and presumably its favorite Presidential candidate, Mr. Harkin has turned the first major contest of the primary season, the Iowa caucus on Feb. 10, into a nonevent. He is expected to win handily -- if he does not, it will be a major setback -- and so far none of the other candidates have bothered to challenge him there.
 The assumption that Mr. Harkin will win comfortably in Iowa has heightened the importance of the New Hampshire primary, the nation's first, which will be held Feb. 18. All the major Democratic candidates, except perhaps Governor Clinton, who must make a strong showing in the early southern primaries, know they need to do well in New Hampshire to stay in the race.
 Mr. Harkin's aides acknowledge that a good showing in New Hampshire is crucial, but they are careful not to define a good showing as first place. "The story often has been the strong showing in second," said Kay Casstevens, the Senator's deputy campaign manager.
 Campaigning for President in New Hampshire, where 10,000 votes can mean the difference between a defeat in the primary and a landslide, often seems to have as much glamor as running for a city council seat; on a recent visit to the state, for example, Mr. Harkin put in an hour and a half at a health-care forum that attracted no more than a dozen potential voters. He is a frequent visitor to diners and hotel basement meetings.
 New Hampshire is a state where voters expect to be contacted personally, if not by the candidate himself, then at least by his staff. Organization is critical for such a ground assault and Mr. Harkin has by most accounts established a solid team. His state director is Kathi Rogers, chairwoman of the Merrimack County Democratic Party, and his co-chairmen in the state are Mary Chambers, minority leader of the New Hampshire House of Representatives, and John Durkin, a former United States Senator.
 The Harkin campaign's central staff, based in Bethesda, Md., is at this point comparatively small in keeping with a strategy aimed at husbanding resources for a television and radio advertising blitz in New Hampshire starting next month. As of now, the campaign is without an official media consultant, although it is planning to sign up Ken Swope, who produced some of the primary commercials for Mr. Dukakis four years ago.
 So much depends on the New Hampshire race that the road beyond, whether long or short, is hard to anticipate. Mr. Harkin hopes to win enough support in early primaries, including in South Dakota and Minnesota, to be able to survive a poor showing on Super Tuesday, March 10, when a half-dozen Southern states will hold primaries. He is also making forays into Texas and Florida, where he says he believes he could make inroads in Mr. Clinton's Southern base.
 Mr. Harkin is certainly working hard at his campaign, but he is not allowing himself to be swallowed up by it. He is, for example, taking this week and next to vacation with his wife and two daughters in the Bahamas where, despite the Senator's blue-collar populism, the family owns a house.
 Whether it takes him all the way to the convention in New York City, Mr. Harkin's give-'em-hell campaign style has already influenced a Democratic Party that has been cowed by 11 years of Republican rule.
 In a sense he has already won, he has made people feel less apologetic about being a Democrat. Even if his candidacy fades, the one thing that he will pass on to the other candidates is the style: Don't take any guff.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 1991, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday profiling Tom Harkin and his campaign for President omitted quotation marks and attribution for material in the last paragraph. It was Thomas E. Mann of the Brookings Institution who said: "In a sense he has already won. He has made people feel good about being a Democrat. Even if his candidacy fades, the one thing that he will pass on to the other candidates is the style: 'Don't take any guff.' "

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Thomas Richard (Tom) Harkin"
 
Born: Nov. 19, 1939 in Cumming, Iowa.
Education: Dowling High School; B.S., Iowa State University 1962; J.D., Catholic University of America. 1972
Religion: Roman Catholic
Military Service: Navy, 1962-67; Naval Reserve, 1968-74
Married: To Ruth Raduenz in 1968
Children: Amy, 15, and Jenny, 10
Government Positions: Aide to Representative Neal Smith of Iowa, 1969-70; staff assistant, House Select Committee on American Involvement in Southeast Asia 1970-72; member, U.S. House of Representatives. 1975-85; U.S. Senator, 1985 to present.
Other Major Positions: Lawyer, Polk County Legal Aid Society in Des Moines, 1973-74
Current Job: U.S. Senator.
Hobbies: Flying; reading; antique cars.
PRESIDENTIAL PROSPECTS
Strengths: Aggressive style, early labor support.
Weaknesses: Prescriptions lack details, liberalism could hurt in general election.
Strategy: Appeal to Democratic faithful.
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO UK LTD (56%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO POLAND SP ZOO (56%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PRIMARIES;
BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1992



896 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Little Software Maker With a Loud Voice

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WESTBORO, Mass.

 BODY:
Ever since its founding in 1983, the marketing effort of Banyan Systems Inc. was virtually inaudible. The software maker quietly provided large, sophisticated customers with the products to link vast networks of personal computers.
Now Banyan is turning up the volume to seize market share from Novell Inc., its much-better-known rival. 
 Twice as many vendors will now distribute Banyan's products, as the company lays plans for going public next year and increases its visibility with a full frontal attack on Novell. "Things They Don't Tell You at Novell Presentations," a brassy new Banyan brochure announces.
"They've established a strong marketing presence for the first time in their history," said Robert Gill of the Gartner Group, a consulting firm in Stamford, Conn. "They are now getting in the door to pitch their story."
Banyan, based in this suburb west of Boston, has only 7.5 percent of the $1.2 billion market for network software. That is dwarfed by Novell, based in Provo, Utah, which, by serving much smaller computer networks, has captured almost 60 percent of the market. Novell has annual sales of $700 million and the loyalty of the nation's largest computer companies.
Some industry consultants, like George Colony of Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., believe Novell is simply too strong a competitor for Banyan or any other seller of network software.
"Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M. and Digital have all thrown their hats in with Novell's Netware," Mr. Colony said, explaining that these companies have agreed to sell Netware -- Novell's network software -- with their own products. "The game is over."
Others say that Banyan's technology has been too far ahead of its time, and now that the world is ready for its products, it faces in Novell a much more powerful marketer.
David C. Mahoney, Banyan's president, chief executive and one of its founders, remains undaunted. He delivers his sales pitch with the vigor of an evangelist. Rather than compete directly with Novell, he decided to concentrate on linking larger computer networks.
"We had a vision and didn't want to deviate from it," he said.
Stressing Banyan's 25 percent annual growth rate and 20 straight profitable quarters, he noted that Banyan had successfully left the computer hardware business, which just last year accounted for 50 percent of sales, to focus on the more profitable sale of software.
Mr. Mahoney expects Banyan to increase its sales from $100 million to $500 million in just five years. Banyan, he said, has staked out a critical niche, with the technical strengths to emerge as a major, long-term competitor.
One of Mr. Mahoney's most pressing tasks is gaining credibility with many more corporate customers. To do that, Banyan, which is privately held, will probably go public early in 1992. Mr. Mahoney said that the company did not need the cash, but that corporate customers tended to be wary of private companies, and financial analysts ignored Banyan while touting its competitors.
"The financial community provides critical information to our customers," he said. "And the more viable and long term you look, the more they buy."
 
Pushing and Shoving
 Mr. Mahoney, 46 years old, is the sort of businessman who is not afraid to push and shove. He still plays goalie on a team of former college and professional hockey players.
He founded Banyan with two associates in 1983 -- one now the technology chief, the other departed to start his own software company. They named the company for a tropical tree that drops vines that then grow their own roots.
Banyan's problem today is not Novell but Banyan itself, Mr. Mahoney said: it simply has not gotten its message out. His solution was to bring in a new marketing chief last year, James D'Arezzo, the former vice president of international marketing at the Compaq Computer Corporation.
Mr. Mahoney is confident that Banyan's stronger marketing campaign will persuade others to share his vision. He says that the large global computer networks Banyan specializes in organizing will become as common as global telephone links.
"When the telephone was first introduced, everything was loosely organized and it took 25 years before the infrastructure was put into place for the modern phone networks," he explained. "Today I can talk to anyone in the world from my car. Computers will be the same way."
 
Building Vast Networks
 Companies will depend increasingly on building vast networks of personal computers, printers, scanners and fax machines, with users able to communicate immediately, he said.
This year, the Marine Corps used Banyan's Vines software in the Persian Gulf war to link 350 personal computers throughout the region -- transmitting almost immediately the equivalent of 300 pages of orders that until recently took hours to deliver electronically.
Banyan's Vines system allows users to find and communicate with each other in seconds -- a technically sophisticated feature that Novell's Netware lacks.
"If you use Novell's Netware with 500 users, it is very difficult to find the user you are looking for," said Frank Michnoff, a consultant with the Meta Group in Westport, Conn. "Are you going to scroll through 500 names? Not likely."
 
Seeing Larger Groupings
 Mr. Mahoney said that Banyan had 26 percent of the market for networks of 300 to 600 personal computers, about the same share as Novell. He expects that high-end segment to grow dramatically, as the market for small networks, Novell's specialty, eventually dries up.
Industry consultants say that Banyan has 12 to 18 months before Novell comes out with its own improved features for locating other users on a network.
"That will take away the most impressive advantage Banyan has," Mr. Michnoff of the Meta Group said.
Producing such sophisticated software is no simple matter, Mr. Mahoney contends. "If you didn't make this decision eight years ago, it would be very difficult to get into it now," he said.
 
Coming Counterattack
 And Banyan boasts of its coming counterattack: software that will allow many key features of Vines to run on systems linked by Novell's Netware. Though the delivery date is uncertain, Mr. Mahoney counts on this innovation to win customers who would otherwise wait for Novell's new features.
But many of those in the industry who agree that Banyan's short-range prospects are bright continue to question Mr. Mahoney's insistence that Banyan can remain independent indefinitely.
"They'll go public first and then, once they've been under more scrutiny, they may get acquired," Charlie Robbins, a consultant with the Aberdeen Group in Boston, predicted. "They can't go it alone at $100 million."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David C. Mahoney, chief executive and a founder of Banyan Systems Inc., runs his company with the vision that some day, computer users will be able to communicate with other users anywhere in the world. (Michael Quan for The New York Times) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BANYAN SYSTEMS NOVELL INC (96%); EPRESENCE INC (91%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANYAN SYSTEMS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS NETWORK SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; MAHONEY, DAVID C ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1991



897 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL A3-13

 BODY:

FORMER REPUBLICS AT ODDS
Military and economic disagreements among former Soviet republics are growing more heated as the new commonwealth tries to arrive at common policies. Ukraine wants Russia to delay a plan to free prices at the start of the new year. A1
 
U.S. INVESTORS SNIFF PROSPECTS
American companies are treating the territories of the former Soviet Union as wild, unpredictable places without reliable laws, but also as good places to try to strike it rich with ventures that skim the cream from an economy in disarray. A1
President Bush said he expected to meet soon with President Yeltsin. A12
 
About 149 million people wake up in a country called Russia. A12
 
SELL-OFFS ENRAGE CAMBODIANS
With only a few months left before United Nations troops take over, the Cambodian Government has been hawking everything it can to foreign investors, from former French villas to school dormitories. The people are reacting with amazement and with violent demonstrations. A1
 
TRAIN MASSACRE IN INDIA
A group of gunmen reported to be Sikh separatists systematically shot Hindu passengers on a train in Punjab state, leaving at least 49 dead and 20 wounded, reports said. A3
 
LOSING TRACK OF WEAPONS
The General Accounting Office says the United States is not adequately monitoring what happens to billions of dollars in arms and military equipment supplied each year to foreign countries. A5
 
SOUTH AFRICANS RIVETED BY CLASH
A televised clash between President F. W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, has thrown new light on a relationship that has sustained political change in South Africa. A8
 
SUBIC TO CLOSE IN 1992
An aide to President Corazon Aquino said that the United States would withdraw from Subic Bay Naval Base by the end of 1992. A6
Yugoslavia's presidency says it is drawing new boundaries. A10
 
NATIONAL A14-20
 
SPURRING PHONE COMPETITION
Led by New York regulators, state officials around the country are moving to end the virtual monopolies that local telephone companies have long enjoyed. A1
 
RECORD DAY FOR STOCKS
Stock prices rose to record levels, continuing a rally that has defied gloomy expectations about the nation's economy and apparently reflecting confidence that a recovery will finally appear in 1992. A1
 
BUSH CABINET CHOICE
Barbara H. Franklin, a well-connected management consultant, corporate director and Republican fund-raiser, is President Bush's choice to become Commerce Secretary when Robert A. Mosbacher leaves to head the President's re-election campaign. D1
 
LSD MAKES A COMEBACK
Cocaine, marijuana and alcohol have been losing popularity with young people for almost a decade, but a growing number are trying LSD, the drug that defined the counterculture of the 1960's. A15
 
CLINTON'S QUEST
Gov. Bill Clinton is struggling to make himself known outside the South and overcome any notion that he will be solely a regional candidate for President. A16
 
CONFUSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
Lawyers and employers say the new civil rights act contains so many ambiguities and unanswered questions that it is hard to tell how courts will interpret it. A20
 
A KILLING ON VIDEOTAPE
A small town in Maine is divided over a family feud that led to the slaying of a couple -- a slaying the victims recorded on a videotape they were planning to use in a harassment lawsuit. A14
 
OFF THE MAP
Washington Journal: At the National Geographic Society, cartographers are crossing off name after name from the old Soviet map. Washington Journal. A14
 
More rain fell in Texas, raising the threat of more flooding. A14
 
Law Page B16
 
Reserve funds to repay clients of thieving lawyers are running dry.
At the Bar
 
METROPOLITAN, Digest, B1
 
CUTTING BACK ON BEDS
New York State leaders are seriously considering ending or sharply curtailing spending for new group homes for the mentally ill for the next 15 months -- a money-saving move city officials say would mean more disturbed people on the streets, in shelters and in hospitals. A1
 
SOMEONE TO TALK TO
Sam Baraker likes to talk. To strangers on the street, subways and at the other end of 800 numbers -- anyone who will let the Ukrainian immigrant practice his English. A1
Neediest Cases B3
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
Weekend C1-34
The big bash: What to do on New Year's Eve. C1
Buster Keaton retrospective. C1
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
Film: At the Movies C10
"Naked Lunch." C1
"Fried Green Tomatoes." C3
"Talking to Strangers." C12
Restaurants C28
Art: "Maus" at the Modern. C3
The Art Market C16
Word and Image: David Shield's "Handbook for Drowning." C34
 
Obituaries D16
John Brian Harley, expert on history of maps.
 
Sports B6-13
Baseball: Steinbrenner wants in. B7
Felony charge considered for Howe. B13
Basketball: Knicks lose to Spurs. B7
Thomas leads Pistons over Magic. B10
Nets beat Rockets. B11
Columns: Vecsey on Coslet. B7
TV Sports B8
Lipsyte on heroes of 1991. B9
Football: Parcells stays coy. B7
Noll resigns as Steelers' coach. B8
Jets not intimidated by Moon. B9
Hockey: Rangers rally to beat Capitals. B7
Devils and Islanders tie. B12
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A32-33
Editorials A32
Save Ellis Island's ghosts.
G.O.P.'s obligation in Albany.
David C. Unger: China.
Letters A32
A. M. Rosenthal: Don't send aid. A33
David H. Halevy: The terrorists' payoff in the hostage deal. A33
Michael Lind: Recognize the power of the new Germany. A33

GRAPHIC: Photo: Signs of the old order disappear in Moscow. A1 (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: PUNJAB, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); INDIA (79%); PUNJAB, INDIA (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (89%); CANNABIS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); NAVIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (64%); LSD (62%); COCAINE (60%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



898 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Dow Soars to Record 3,082.96 Despite Vulnerable Economy

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
Stock prices jumped to record levels yesterday, continuing a rally that has defied gloomy expectations about the nation's economy. The rise apparently reflects confidence that a recovery will finally appear in 1992.
In a market that showed surprising strength, with many investors still distracted by the holidays, several indexes reached highs. The rally began in earnest when the Federal Reserve cut interest rates last Friday; the clear belief is that low interest rates will encourage companies to invest, and with yields down on other investments, stocks have become a more attractive option. 
 The number that for many people defines the market, the Dow Jones industrial average, climbed 31.98 points, to close at 3,082.96, its highest ever. That edged past its previous best, 3,077.15, set on Oct. 18, and puts the Dow 17.1 percent ahead of its level on Jan. 1, when the prospect of war had scared investors off.
 
Acting as a Fortune Teller
 In the face of signs of persistent weakness in the economy, like the recent announcement by General Motors that it would lay off 20,000 workers, the rally, some analysts say, is the best indication that a turnaround is on the way.
"The stock market has always acted as a fortune teller," said Robert Freedman, chief investment officer for John Hancock Mutual Funds in Boston. "It's based on what people think is going to happen."
Mr. Freedman and others said the rally was started by the Federal Reserve's decision to make a sharp cut in the discount rate, the rate at which the central bank issues short-term loans to banks, from 4 1/2 to 3 1/2 percent. In the four trading days since that announcement, the Dow has gained 168 points, or 5.8 percent.
The advance has been fueled by confidence among investors that stocks would continue to rise, even as an economic recovery remains elusive.
"Psychologically, the worst always comes right before a turnaround," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist for Oppenheimer & Company. "The bad news is on the front page, while the good news is in the financial section."
The market ordinarily slows in the final week of the year, as investors cash in gains they have made over the year or make trades for tax purposes. Since early this month, analysts have been predicting a drift, or even a slight downturn, in the market, and many were encouraged and surprised by the recent strong showing.
The overall market has been strong in 1991. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, a broader indication of performance by large stocks than the Dow, is up 22.6 percent and the Nasdaq composite, a measure of the generally smaller stocks traded over the counter, is up 49.6 percent.
Both indexes hit highs yesterday. The S.& P. 500, which pierced the 400 level for the first time, climbed 5.51, to 404.84, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 9.74, to 559.30.
 
Enthusiasm for the War
 For the year, most of those gains came early in the year, amid enthusiasm over the war in the Persian Gulf. Predictions by President Bush that the country would emerge from the recession by midyear proved wrong, but investor concern over the economy eased in recent weeks.
But economists warn low interest rates alone will not do the trick.
"We have the Fed versus the economy," said Robert Warburg, an MMS International analyst. "And the Fed has been losing for the last six months. Without help from Washington, they're going to get swamped."
Asked to explain the strength of the stock market in face of still-shallow consumer confidence, Mr. Metz called yesterday's rally "a vote of confidence in the Fed's decision to make more money available."
 
Many Issues Are Up
 Trading on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 149.2 million shares, down from Tuesday's 162.4 million, but sharply higher than the 78.7 million that changed hands the day after Christmas last year. Gaining stocks far outnumbered losing ones, by 1,286 to 456.
But analysts warned that support in the market might not be as deep as it was broad.
"A surprising amount of pessimism exists in the market," Mr. Warburg said. "There are still people not convinced of this recovery."
If company earnings do not begin to grow and an economic recovery does not arrive by mid-1992, he said, the market may be susceptible to a steep drop. Mr. Metz said he expected the market to continue rising.
 
Leading the Rally
 Among the companies that paced yesterday's rise were Merck, climbing 5 1/4, to 164 1/8; Boeing, which rose 1 1/2, to 46 7/8; Philip Morris, which went up 2 1/8, to 76 1/4; and J. P. Morgan, which rose 2 3/4, to 69 1/2.
The most heavily traded stocks were American Express, up 1, to 20 3/4, with 2.77 million shares changing hands, and Citicorp, up 1, to 10 3/4, on 2.73 million shares.
Transportation stocks performed strongly yesterday, but even more striking is the gains they have marked in recent weeks and months. Since the Fed's announcement last Friday, the Dow Jones transportation average of 20 stocks has shot up 8 percent. For 1991 so far, the transportation stocks have risen 44 percent.
 
Cyclical Stocks Join In
 Mr. Warburg added that the strongest sector of the market, drug, medical and biochemical companies, have been joined in recent weeks by cyclical stocks, whose profits are tied to gains in the economy.
Elsewhere in the market, Roberts Pharmeceuticals rose 3 1/2, to 31 1/2, after announcing a preliminary agreement to buy four prescription pharmaceutical lines from Wyeth Laboratories, a British unit of American Home Products.
Apple Computer was up 2 5/8, to 54 7/8, despite an analyst's estimate that 1992 earnings would drop.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Yesterday's Close" shows daily closes of the Dow Jones industrial average for 1991 to date (Source: Datastream) (pg. A1); "S.& P. Milestones" shows monthly closes of the S.& P. 500 from '65 to '90 (Source: Datastream, Standard & Poor's) (pg. D6)
 
Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



899 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2777 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE SOVIET UNION: Capitalism's New Frontier - A special report;
Hunting for Riches in Ex-Soviet Lands

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
American companies are treating the territories of the now-defunct Soviet Union as wild, unpredictable places, without reliable laws, but good for trying to strike it rich with ventures that skim the cream from an economy in disarray.
Even Fortune 500 companies are signing deals that have a frontier quality. In fact, the upheaval seems to be stimulating imaginative deal-making, not inhibiting it. The greater the turmoil and risk, the greater the concessions the authorities in the newly independent lands seem willing to grant, although concern is surfacing that deals born today may be canceled tomorrow by some future government that views them as one-sided and exploitative.
 
Promise of Big Profits
 The guiding principle appears to be this: Gamble as little as possible in a risky investment that might very well return a jackpot profit, if the money is not lost altogether in the chaos. Robert S. Strauss, a millionaire Texas lawyer and the United States Ambassador to Moscow, describes the potential and the risk by advising business people that if he were younger -- he is 73 -- he would invest $100,000 in the old Soviet Union and run it up into $10 million, but that if he had $10 million, he would gamble only $100,000 of it. 
 In that canny spirit, Western companies are beginning to ride off in search of profits. Lured by the suddenly easy access to one of the richest lands on earth, they are offering their know-how and a modest infusion of cash in exchange for a share of the most valuable assets of the former Soviet lands: oil, cotton, timber, metals and minerals.
The ventures are mostly small ones, about all that is possible in so disrupted an economy. Indeed, United States Commerce Department records of the more than 2,000 deals between Americans and the authorities in the former Soviet lands show that most involve investments of less than $10 million, and total less than $300 million actually paid out.
But they hold the promise of big profits. One American company, for example, is manufacturing and marketing tampons, a product that is new to most women in the former Soviet lands, and is collecting profits in cotton. Another is pumping oil in Siberia and managing to sell some of the crude abroad for dollars.
The Western entrepreneurs are operating in an environment that Robert D. Hormats, an international investment banker at Goldman, Sachs & Company, likens "to a Yukon-Wild West economy where investors don't know for sure if they have legal title to what they purchase or laws to back them."
So far, Americans and Germans are the most active at this, encouraged by many business managers in the republics who are openly soliciting Western help to salvage enterprises they cannot seem to operate successfully on their own. As Robert Lipsey, an economist and expert in foreign investment at City University of New York, put it: "There is a recognition of how far they have fallen behind in technology, even low-tech technology. They think industrial countries can show them how to design a shoe, where to put the shoelace, how to attach the top to the bottom."
But along with the solicitations for help have come scattered complaints recently in the press in the former Soviet republics, criticism that suggests that people might find that Western businessmen fit the derisive descriptions of "greedy capitalists" that were so often a feature of Communist polemics.
The critics charge that the business managers who are making deals with the West are contributing far too much in buildings, land, raw materials and promises of profit, while Westerners are risking next to nothing.
So far, only about 50 of the 2,000 American deals are functioning, and dollars have been invested in only a handful of these operations, according to the World Deal Review, which gathers such data. McDonald's claims the largest active project: nearly $65 million paid out so far to open its Moscow restaurant and a food processing center, and also to construct a 10-story office building now going up on city-owned land a block from Red Square.
However small the Western presence so far, American executives argue almost unanimously that to survive, enterprises in the former Soviet Union must acquire not only Western technology but Western know-how in management, marketing and distribution. Still, investing Western expertise is risky, given the chaos, and that requires the lure of a jackpot return.
"In a situation that is perilously close to anarchy, these guys are taking wild risks," said Robert Heilbroner, the economics historian. "They are saying to themselves, 'In the worst of cases, we lose $50 million, but there is a chance to grab the whole marketplace.' "
 
Hunting Someone To Make a Deal
 The Western companies are forming joint ventures by acquiring a stake in enterprises still officially government-owned. With the Soviet government dying for months and now gone, some of the negotiating has taken place with officials of the various republics. Most often, however, American executives are dealing with the managers of state-owned companies that have, in effect, been abandoned by the state.
Graham Allison, a Soviet expert at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, described their evolution.
"You are the manager of a state enterprise, say an aircraft company with 10,000 employees, and you begin to imagine there is no one above you," he said. "You don't get any orders, and the ministry you reported to disappears. You begin to imagine that the property is yours, and since you aren't getting any supplies you have to look out for yourself and your employees. Sometimes you get a foreigner to buy half of the operation in a joint venture. That is spontaneous privatization."
The Gillette Company recently engaged in spontaneous privatization, signing a contract to make razor blades with the managers of amanufacturing complex in St. Petersburg. In return, Gillette was given permission to send home about $33 million a year. The money is to cover the cost of importing special steels and also what Milton L. Glass, Gillette's vice president for finance, calls "a reasonable return on our investment."
Gillette's joint venture with the Russian company, Leninets, promises that the new enterprise will manufacture 900 million high-quality blades a year, enough to make the former Soviet republics self-sufficient in blades. "And the Russians are big shavers," Mr. Glass said.
With self-sufficiency, the 11 members of the new Commonwealth of Independent States can in theory save roughly $100 million a year that is now spent for imported blades. In the contract, the managers of Leninets gave Gillette the right to convert ruble revenue into enough dollars to send abroad one-third of this savings, or $33 million. Gillette, for its part, will invest $50 million over five years to obtain control of the operation. It will spend most of the money on state-of-the-art machinery to make blades.
But will the contract hold up? So far only the Leninets managers have signed it. Various Russian government ministers will also have to sign on.
But should they? Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economist and adviser to Eastern European governments, doubts whether any joint venture gives full value to the sellers when control of a company is sold without competitive bidding.
"Without an auction process established in law, the decision is left to managers, which lends itself to corruption," Mr. Sachs said, suggesting that the managers making the deals with the West might pocket some of the proceeds.
 
Americans Looking For Raw Materials
 So far, corruption involving foreign investment has not become a public issue. But corporate America's obsession with collecting its return in hard currency or in valuable products like oil or cotton is causing some problems.
Tambrands, the American manufacturer of Tampax, is a pioneer: since 1988 the company has invested $10 million to operate a new Tampax factory near Kiev. Tambrands' partner, the Ukrainian Health Ministry's General Pharmaceutical Department, which runs the republic's pharmacies, provided the building and land.
"We provided the first commercially produced sanitary napkin," said Paul Konney, a senior vice president at Tambrands. "Women traditionally bought bricks of bleached cotton, using four times as much cotton as an equivalent supply of tampons. We said, 'You could save the raw material, and out of that savings in cotton, you could pay us our profits, in cotton.' "
And that is what has happened. Rubles earned from the sale of tampons are used to purchase local cotton -- the Soviet Union was the world's third largest cotton producer -- and Tambrands ships some of that cotton out of the country.
But Tambrands' arrangement ran headlong into a Soviet concept, embodied in law and emotion, that says foreign investors should not be allowed to export products they do not produce themselves. Tambrands has dealt with this objection by noting that it does not export raw cotton; the company processes and bleaches it first, to make 300 million tampons a year in the Kiev factory, and also to sell some cotton abroad.
Could the Ukrainians have set up their own tampon manufacturing network to serve the huge and potentially lucrative market of Commonwealth of Independent States, using dollars earned from cotton exports to purchase equipment and technology?
Mr. Konney does not think so. "We are bringing something to the party," he said, "upgrading technology and marketing skills, and managing the operation as good, enlightened capitalist managers, and we are providing employment." That amounts to 300 jobs.
 
McDonald's Trades Burgers for Exports
 McDonald's must also deal with local criticism, but of a different sort. The issue for McDonald's is whether, in lands short of meat and dairy products, the company diverts too much to its huge Moscow restaurant, which says it serves 50,000 people a day.
Like the others, McDonald's has found ways to earn a return on its investment in hard currency. Just as Tambrands has permission to purchase and export cotton, McDonald's received government authorization to purchase and export a raw material, one that George Cohon, vice president of Moscow McDonald's, declined to identify. For competitive reasons, he said he did not want to give too much detail to other foreign investors who might be trying to make similar export arrangements.
The 10-story office building going up on city land near Red Square -- the City of Moscow is McDonald's joint-venture partner -- will be leased to foreign companies, and the rent will be paid in dollars abroad. Once the cost of the $15 million building is covered, the rentals will help provide a return on McDonald's overall Soviet investment, now approaching $65 million, Mr. Cohon said.
Finally, McDonald's 100,000-square-foot processing plant in Moscow, which is used to store and prepare food purchased in the countryside, is also a hard-currency earner. "There is excess capacity at that plant, so we sell food in dollars to an embassy or some store that operates in hard currency," Mr. Cohon said.
Mr. Cohon acknowledged that some people might question whether McDonald's should be permitted to purchase large quantities of food that might otherwise be distributed through different outlets, especially given the shortages now being experienced in Moscow and elsewhere. But he responded that McDonald's has increased food production, in part by teaching better techniques to the farmers it deals with. He also suggested that McDonald's restaurants are an efficient way to feed the public.
 
Lots of Oil, But Hard to Get
 The debate over tampons and Big Macs pales alongside the conflict that could develop over oil. The Soviet Union was the world's largest oil producer, and the reserves of the newly independent republics are sufficient to greatly increase production -- a goal sought by the Bush Administration, which hopes rising production can reduce American dependence on Middle East oil.
Oilfields in eastern Russia and in Kazakhstan are separately as large as Alaska's North Slope fields. But they have yet to produce much oil, largely because of a lack of money to develop them.
Still, the people administering the fields appear to be of two minds: They are actively inviting American oil companies to bring their technology and invest millions of dollars to pump the oil. But they are balking at turning over too much ownership of the oil that comes out of the ground.
In the most celebrated case, Chevron has been trying to make a deal in Kazakhstan that has raised local concerns.
"The Soviets seem unable to sign off on a deal," said Thomas Burns, Chevron's chief economist. "As everyone knows, oil is considered national patrimony, and that has a lot of impact politically and emotionally."
Having begun negotiations with the Government of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Chevron is now dealing with tougher, more nationalistic Kazakh officials, trying to arrange a joint venture in which Chevron would invest $1 billion over two to three years and several billion more over a decade. The money would be used to recover hundreds of thousands of barrels a day from two known oil fields, Tengiz and Korolev. But there is a sticking point: Chevron wants to own half the oil that comes out of the ground.
"The Soviets do not have an idea of an acceptable rate of return," Mr. Burns complained. "They are taking the approach that if you put in $1 million and you get a 30 percent return, that is acceptable."
The Chevron argument is that a higher return is essential to compensate for the risk of a multi-billion dollar investment. After all, Chevron argues, the final payoff might turn out to be far less than 30 percent.
Whatever the pros and cons, the Kazakh Government seems inclined to drive a harder bargain than the old Gorbachev Government. In July, Kazakhstanskaya Pravda carried a report accusing the Soviet Oil and Gas Ministry of endorsing an arrangement in which the Soviets would contribute far more in cash and assets than Chevron.
 
Two Houston Men Show a Success
 In such an atmosphere, smaller and less noticeable projects are turning out to be more successful. A Texas lawyer and a Texas oilman, operating as business partners out of Houston, negotiated the American oil venture now furthest along in the former Soviet Union. They flew to Raduzhny, in north central Siberia, and arranged a joint venture with Anatoly Sivak, chairman of the state company that pumps oil in the area.
Once Mr. Sivak had obtained the necessary signatures from higher-ups in the Russian Republic and the Gorbachev Government, the three men named their joint venture White Knights. Mr. Sivak's state enterprise provided the underground oil and 1,000 workers, and the Texans agreed to invest millions of dollars in modern equipment, technology, new housing and more.
But having no money of their own, the two Americans -- Gil Labbe, an oil engineer, and Gordon Andrus, a specialist in international law -- sold half of their share in the joint venture to Phibro Energy Production, an oil and gas division of Salomon Inc., the Wall Street firm. Phibro says it has invested $50 million so far to drill two new wells and to extract more oil from 20 to 30 old ones.
The Americans own half of all the oil that is taken from the ground. White Knights is exporting about 4,000 barrels a day for sale on the world market, and Mr. Labbe said that the dollars earned are being plowed back into the business. Eventually, a $1.5 billion investment is supposed to yield more than 300,000 barrels a day in new Siberian production.
How did Mr. Labbe and Mr. Andrus do it without loud public complaint? They made informal contacts with Soviet Oil and Gas Ministry officials in Houston, Mr. Labbe said, "and we told them what we wanted in exchange for capital and know-how: an oilfield already being developed, an existing road network and pipeline, and an area with a pool of oil fairly near the surface."
The officials sent the two Houston men to Mr. Sivak, who negotiated a 25-year agreement, then got the approval of the republic and federal officials.
Clearly, there are lessons in the White Knights experience. One is to start the negotiations at the bottom, not the top. Another is to resist any temptation to sell Western oil technology and capital without an ownership stake in the oil that is produced.
"The companies are not interested in giving the technology away for a fee," said John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since 1988, Tambrands has invested $10 million to operate a Tampax factory near Kiev. Tambrands' partner, the Ukraine's Health Ministry's General Pharmaceutical Department, which runs the republic's pharmacies, provided the building and land. (Efrem Lukatsky for The New York Times) (pg. A13)
 
Table: "The Deals: U.S. Companies Investing in the Former Soviet Union" shows recent completed agreements between U.S. companies and the former Soviet Union or its former republics (Source: East European Investment Monthly, New York) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (52%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); TEXAS, USA (52%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TRENDS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



900 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2450 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Delivers a Mainstream Message With a Southern Accent

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 20

 BODY:
Bill Clinton moved easily through a meeting room at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel here, chatting up the Democrats who had put on expensive suits and velvet holiday dresses to meet the Arkansas Governor and write $500 checks for his Presidential campaign.
After spending weeks on the campaign trail in chilly New Hampshire, Mr. Clinton was back in the region he knows best: the South. That night, he collected endorsements from two important Georgians, Gov. Zell Miller and Senator Sam Nunn, and raised $75,000 from well-heeled Atlantans. Today, he flew to Tennessee to woo Democrats with deep pockets in Memphis and Nashville. 
 The events are signs of Mr. Clinton's early success and his main problem. He raised more than $3 million in the last three months. But much of that money came from the South -- nearly a third of it in one Little Rock, Ark., fund-raising event -- and Mr. Clinton and his aides know they must overcome any notion that the Arkansas Governor will be solely a regional candidate.
"The geography is clearly against me," he said recently. "I'm a stranger in nearly every place."
Running on a message that is tailored for conservative times, Mr. Clinton has staked out his position on the Democratic right in much the way that Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa has laid claim to the left.
Square-jawed and good-humored, but lacking the charisma quotient and war hero status that has enhanced the candidacy of Senator Bob Kerrey, Mr. Clinton has nevertheless scored well with party officials and strategists with a series of policy speeches and a victory in the Florida Democratic Party's nonbinding straw poll.
In each appearance, he has offered an assessment of the state of the American economy that borrows as much from Republicans like Jack Kemp as it does from liberals like Jesse Jackson. Like the middle-of-the-road Democratic Leadership Council he founded in 1985, Mr. Clinton is self-consciously centrist, urging what amounts to a marriage of traditional Democratic social concerns with economic policies borrowed from the Republicans. The future of the Democratic Party, Mr. Clinton contends, depends on its willingness to alter its focus.
"I'd like for you to remember that John Kennedy got elected President not by telling people what they wanted to hear, but by challenging the established Democratic orthodoxy and challenging the American people to do better," he said in an interview. "I think we need dramatic change in this country. We've got to go beyond the established partisan divisions.
"Four years ago, I was giving a speech saying the Democrats were going downhill," he said. "And now it's become part of the conventional wisdom of the Democratic Party, so I guess I should be grateful."
To get the opportunity to present his message to the general electorate in the fall, Mr. Clinton must first convince the more left-leaning traditional Democrats who vote in state primaries that there is more than an intellectual case to be made for moving to the center. But in the party that nominated liberals, Michael S. Dukakis and Walter F. Mondale, in the last two elections, this may prove to be a tall order.
During these first throes of the primary season, Mr. Clinton has been received warmly enough outside the South to force Northern and Western Democrats -- and some Republicans -- to listen seriously to his mainstream message of middle-class tax relief and individual responsibility.
 
Carving Out a Niche
 Southerner Seeks Moderate Voter
 Mr. Clinton's toughest battles lie ahead. With New York Gov. Mario M. Cuomo out of the race, he has been deprived of the definition he had been seeking as the clear alternative to a liberal from the Northeast.
Instead, he must now carve out a niche for himself in a Democratic field where both Mr. Kerrey and Mr. Harkin have a shot at early victories before the campaign heads south for the Super Tuesday primaries in March.
Now that the field is set, Mr. Clinton's supporters are trying to make a marketable virtue of his moderation.
"The junior Senator from Iowa may run wild," Senator Nunn said in introducing Mr. Clinton recently. "The junior Senator from Nebraska may run hot and cold, and the Governor of New York may not run at all. Bill Clinton will run straight and true."
But the Democrats remember all too well their previous brushes with Presidential candidacies from the South, and comparisons are as inevitable as they are frequent. Many Democrats remember President Jimmy Carter's loss to Ronald Reagan in 1980 as a rejection of both the candidate and the party's message. In 1988, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, who was also billed as a conservative Democrat who could win back Reagan Democrats, based his strategy in the South only to stumble badly in New York.
Mr. Clinton and his aides insist they will make neither Mr. Carter's nor Mr. Gore's mistakes. But they also realize that for a governor from a small, impoverished state that has improved but not flourished under his leadership, the road to nomination has an alarming number of potential pitfalls.
During the last month, the most pressing chore has been to raise the money needed to introduce Mr. Clinton to millions of voters on the unfamiliar terrain he must negotiate during the next few months. If he fares respectably in New Hampshire and South Dakota, his hand will be strengthened when he returns to the South for a slate of regional primaries that will include Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Louisiana and Texas.
David Wilhelm, the Clinton campaign manager who has spent much time shoring up his candidate's base in the South, is eager to lower expectations about how well Mr. Clinton can perform in the Northeast.
"New Hampshire's not going to be easy for us," he said.
 
Talking Economics
 Prods for Business And Cuts in Taxes
 Mr. Clinton, 45 years old, his bushy gray hair recently sculpted into a ruthlessly restrained style and his speeches similarly reined in, has been using the campaign trail to test themes and to gauge the degree to which an unknown Southern governor can win broad support in a time of national economic distress.
"The psychology of New Hampshire is very difficult," he said. "It's even different from the South, where we were used to getting beat up in the 80's. Half of the people drawing welfare checks are middle-class or higher. It's a very painful thing to see."
But for Mr. Clinton and the other Democrats, the economy's continuing slide is good political news as they seek footholds to challenge Mr. Bush. In conservative Orange County, Calif., a group of top Republican fund-raisers met with Mr. Clinton and immediately wrote checks for his campaign after hearing his economic message.
With each new piece of bad news, Mr. Clinton has tried to seize the moment. When General Motors announced it would close plants and eliminate 74,000 jobs, he criticized President Bush and said highway construction included in the recently signed transportation bill should be expedited to create new jobs.
"I don't want to be happy about a recession," said Frank Greer, the campaign's media consultant. "But let me tell you, it helps big time."
The message Mr. Clinton has been honing on the stump has emerged as a nakedly insistent appeal for middle-class votes that includes a proposal to cut income taxes for the middle class by 10 percent and provide tax incentives for business investment. After Mr. Clinton delivered his economic policy speech at Georgetown University last month, a student asked him if he was planning to abandon the party's traditional role as champion of the poor.
"There is no hostility to the poor in my plan," Mr. Clinton responded. "If you're going to help the poor with tax money, somebody's got to earn the money to pay the taxes. The best way to help the poor is to expand the middle class."
Most of the other major Democrats in the race have taken up that call, and party leaders appear to have conceded that they must reorient themselves toward the center in order to elect their Presidential nominees.
 
Establishing an Image
 Obscure Outsider With Inside Help
 Mr. Clinton's virtual anonymity has been both a virtue and a curse in the campaign he and his aides have been plotting. Eschewing Washington as a base of operation, Mr. Clinton has made Little Rock his national campaign headquarters and tapped his longtime Arkansas aide, Bruce Lindsay, as his traveling campaign director.
Mr. Clinton lashes out frequently at Congressional Democrats as well as at Republicans in Washington, inviting his audiences to believe that as a state executive he, too, is a victim.
He depicts himself as a Governor who "spent 11 years on the receiving end of the Reagan revolution" and who "tried to be one of those points of light the President talked about." But he also knows all politicians have been tarred.
"The average voter thinks we're all a bunch of slugs," Mr. Clinton said.
Nonetheless, Mr. Clinton has not hesitated to latch onto insiders' Washington expertise for his campaign, hiring political professionals from Capitol Hill like George Stephanopolous and campaign veterans like Mr. Greer, the poll-taker Stanley Greenberg and James Carville and Paul Begala, the two Washington-based political consultants who helped guide Harris Wofford to victory in November over Dick Thornburgh in the closely watched Pennsylvania Senate race.
Mr. Clinton's only previous brush with national prominence came in 1988, when he delivered a nominating speech for Michael Dukakis that was so tedious that he was dropped for a time from the handicappers' lists of likely Presidential candidates.
 
'30-Minute Candidate'
 Although he is less long-winded these days, Mr. Clinton's advisers still worry that he has not yet perfected the concise television statement. "We've clearly proven we're the best 30-minute candidate in the race," Mr. Carville said after listening to Mr. Clinton deliver a well-received speech in Atlanta. "I just hope we can be the best 30-second candidate."
As with the other members of the field wooing the party faithful, Mr. Clinton must also convince fund-raisers and local party officials that he will be tough enough to challenge President Bush effectively.
"Can he fight the way the Republicans can?" Jerry Herskovitz, a Democrat from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., said after hearing Mr. Clinton speak in November. "Can he cut throats?"
Few doubt that Mr. Harkin, with his vociferous blasts from the left, can challenge Mr. Bush on rhetoric. For Mr. Clinton, however, the question of whether he could go toe to toe with Mr. Bush arises frequently.
"Every time somebody hits me, I do my best to take their heads off," Mr. Clinton said after a recent speech. "And it's worked pretty well."
 
Planning Strategy
 Personal Queries And Code Words
 Mr. Clinton is clearly a man who has spent much of his career grooming himself for this moment. Now that it has arrived, he is trying to work out the rough spots in timing and strategy.
"Every day you're in Florida, you're not in New Hampshire," he fretted as he flew across Florida recently. "Every minute you're in an airplane, you're not on the phone."
Along the way, Mr. Clinton has already gotten a taste of how diversions can threaten to knock a campaign off course. When Mr. Kerrey told him an offensive sexual joke within range of C-SPAN microphones at a New Hampshire roast last month, reporters immediately demanded if Mr. Clinton had laughed at the joke. His aides said he did not, but Mr. Clinton seemed wounded that reporters were dogging him about the exchange.
And in a breakfast meeting with Washington political reporters in September, he was asked about the rumors concerning his marital fidelity that surfaced in his last race for Governor.
"Like nearly anybody who's been together 20 years, our relationship has not been perfect or free of its difficulties, but we feel good about where we are, and we believe in our obligation to each other and we intend to be together 30 or 40 years from now," he said as his wife, Hillary, sat at his side.
Mr. Clinton has also made it clear that he intends to tap into what he sees as a growing public impatience with overemphasis on the personal lives of candidates by issuing a blanket refusal to answer what he describes as "have you ever" questions. Such questions, he has said, are demeaning and beside the point.
 
Challenge to Wilder
 Mr. Clinton has also decided to make a serious run at challenging L. Douglas Wilder, the Virginia Governor who is the only major black candidate in the race, for the support of black voters.
"It's probably been since Robert Kennedy was assassinated that a white politician tried to go everywhere in America and say the same thing everywhere, and make a conscious decision to try to reach across racial and economic lines to draw people together," he said in an interview.
In his speeches, Mr. Clinton takes pains to denounce David Duke, the defeated Louisiana gubernatorial candidate who has said he will challenge President Bush for the Republican nomination. The words take on an additional edge in the South, where he does not hesitate to evoke memories of the region's past racial problems to illustrate his point.
Lashing out at the Republicans for what he describes as race-baiting, he told the largely white Atlanta crowd the other night, "They pay consultants millions for what Southerners know how to do by instinct."
The difference, he said, is that Southerners have come to realize that using what he calls "these little code words" about race have hurt their region.
The Clinton campaign prides itself on what advisers boast of as the consistency in their candidate's message. Mr. Clinton, they say, is willing to make the same speech to every audience.
Essentially, they are correct. The businessmen in New Hampshire and the black woman in Florida heard the same message, but Mr. Clinton pitched it with differing emphasis and inflection.
"He plays well down here," said Robert Slagle, the chairman of the Texas Democratic Party. "But, shoot, he's got the same accent we got, and he could be the boy next door over in East Texas."
To do well in New Hampshire or California or New York, Mr. Clinton knows he is going to have to get his name into the nation's living rooms in a hurry.
"In a lot of respects, Bill Clinton's got a good, solid general election message," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic consultant who is not working for any of the candidates. "And he is clearly saying the kind of things a Democrat has to say to win a general election. It's less clear that there's enough of an edge there to win the nomination."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "William Jefferson Clinton"
 
Born: Aug. 19, 1946, in Hope, Ark..
 
Education: Hot Springs High School; B.S., Georgetown University, 1968; Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, England, 1968-70; J.D., Yale University, 1973.
 
Religion: Baptist.
 
Military Service: None.
 
Married: To Hillary Rodham in 1975.
 
Children: Chelsea, 11.
 
Government Positions: Attorney General of Arkansas, 1977-79; Governor of Arkansas, 1979-81., 1983 to present.
 
Other Major Positions: Professor of Law, University of Arkansas School of Law, and limited private practice, 1973-76; practicing attorney, 1981-82.
 
Current Job: Governor of Arkansas.
 
Hobbies: Jogging, golf and playing the saxophone.
 
PRESIDENTIAL PROSPECTS
 
Strengths: A conservative economic message appeals to voters who deserted the party; good early reviews.
 
Weaknesses: He is untested and unknown in the Northeast and tends to talk too long.
 
Strategy: To survive in New Hampshire, score big in Southern primaries on March 10.
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (93%); TOM HARKIN (58%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



901 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Bush Picks Nominee For Commerce Post

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26

 BODY:
President Bush announced today that he would nominate Barbara H. Franklin, a well-connected management consultant, corporate director and Republican fund-raiser, to become Commerce Secretary next year.
Ms. Franklin would become the third woman in the election-year Cabinet of Mr. Bush, who has usually drawn less support from women than men. She was one of the first women to receive an M.B.A. from Harvard, and her Government career began in 1971, when President Richard M. Nixon brought her into his Administration to recruit more women. 
 She would replace Robert A. Mosbacher, who is leaving in January to head the Bush re-election campaign.
Ms. Franklin, who earns up to $327,000 a year as a director of seven corporations, has a long resume in both politics and business.
Federal campaign records show that she has contributed $45,550 since 1989 to Republican campaigns, according to The Associated Press. She has been active in Republican politics in her native Pennsylvania and was a chairwoman for a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising dinner last month that gathered nearly $1.2 million for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign.
And as a director of seven corporations, Ms. Franklin, 51 years old, already knows business leaders. Commerce Secretaries have traditionally represented their views in the councils of Government. If appointed to the Cabinet, she would have to resign from all corporate boards.
At a White House press briefing this afternoon, Ms. Franklin said, "As Secretary of Commerce, when confirmed by the Senate, of course, I look forward to and will be very proud to be an advocate for American business," calling it "the economic backbone of America."
President Bush said Ms. Franklin would become part of his economic policy team. "Her first priority is the same as mine -- jobs and economic growth -- and she has shown a deep commitment to public service, from serving on the Consumer Products Safety Commission to working as an alternate public delegate to the United Nations," he said.
The nomination is an important one as the nation heads into a Presidential election campaign in which job losses to foreign competition are likely to be big issues. If Ms. Franklin is confirmed, both the nation's top trade officials will be women. The other one, United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, and Labor Secretary Lynn Martin are the only women in the Cabinet now.
 
Deeply Involved With Trade
 Ms. Franklin did not discuss her views on trade policy at today's briefing and did not agree to be interviewed. President Bush said Ms. Franklin "has been a determined advocate of free and fair trade, keenly aware that when the playing field is level, American workers can compete with anyone, anywhere."
More than most new Commerce Secretaries, Ms. Franklin has been deeply involved with international trade, having served six years on the President's Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations. James D. Robinson 3d, chairman and chief executive of the American Express Company, heads the group, which also includes top corporate executives from other multinational companies.
The two biggest trade issues next year are a proposed 108-nation accord to pull down trade barriers worldwide and a free-trade agreement with Mexico. The Commerce Department has supported Mrs. Hills's office on both issues.
As one of the original commissioners of the Consumer Product Safety Commission when it was formed by President Nixon, Ms. Franklin has credentials that are likely to help the Administration when the trade accords go before Congress. Some labor unions and consumer groups have opposed the trade agreements, contending that they may lower safety standards for imported goods. Mrs. Hills and her aides deny that contention.
 
Heavy Corporate Lobbying
 Administration officials have been counting on heavy corporate lobbying to support Congressional approval of both trade agreements.
Ms. Franklin is a director of the Aetna Life and Casualty Company, Armstrong World Industries, Automatic Data Processing Inc., the Black & Decker Corporation, the Dow Chemical Company, Nordstrom Inc. and the Westinghouse Electric Corporation.
She earns nearly $180,300 a year in retainer fees for serving on these boards, plus up to $146,800 a year and expenses depending on how many board meetings she attends, according to figures compiled by Directorship, a Westport, Conn., newsletter that publishes statistics on corporate directors.
Ann D. McLaughlin, a Labor Secretary in the Reagan Administration, is the only American woman to have served on more boards of the 1,000 largest industrial companies, said Elsa S. Nad, the editor of Directorship.
Ms. Franklin was also on the audit committee of each board -- an important but often tough position since its members may have to challenge management. At Armstrong, she took part in the company's successful fight against a hostile takeover attempt that led Pennsylvania to pass a tough anti-takeover law.
Corporate executives described Ms. Franklin as an energetic woman with expertise in several areas, including personnel policy and relations with the Government. John N. Nordstrom, co-chairman of the Nordstrom department store chain, said Ms. Franklin had helped the company -- which imports large quantities of merchandise -- understand the nation's import quota system.
Josh S. Weston, chairman and chief executive of Automatic Data Processing, pointed to Ms. Franklin's "extreme conservatism" in accounting practices, which helped keep the computer company from relaxing its standards in an industry marked by aggressive accounting.
Mr. Weston said she had been introduced to Automatic Data Processing by Alan Greenspan, then a director and now Federal Reserve chairman.
The former Barbara Hackman grew up in Lancaster County, Pa., the daughter of a school superintendent and a teacher. She graduated with honors from Pennsylvania State University in 1962 and received her master's of business administration from Harvard Business School in 1964, in the school's second class that included women. But when she returned to Harvard in recent years, she once told a reporter, one professor was dismissive, taking her to be a spouse, rather than an alumna.
Ms. Franklin met her husband, Wallace Barnes, the chairman of an automobile parts company, in 1979 when she joined the board of Aetna, where he was already a director. They were married in 1986. Mr. Barnes often flies his plane from their home in Bristol, Conn., to Washington, where she has an apartment.
Ms. Franklin said in 1988 that Aetna's chairman and chief executive, James T. Lynn, "thought that Aetna was entitled to a finder's fee for this, or maybe two finder's fees."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush listening to Barbara H. Franklin at a news conference yesterday after she was nominated as Commerce Secretary. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); PRODUCT SAFETY (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRANKLIN, BARBARA HACKMAN; MOSBACHER, ROBERT A (SEC); BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



902 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Stock prices rose to record levels, continuing a rally that has defied gloomy expectations about the nation's economy and apparently reflecting confidence that a recovery will finally appear in 1992. The Dow climbed 31.98, to 3,082.96. That represents a 5.8 percent rise in the four days since the Fed rate cut and puts it 17.1 percent above its level on Jan. 1. [Page A1.] 
 Bond prices rose modestly on the strength of slight buying by mutual funds and other investors. [D12.]
Oil prices dropped 47 cents, to $18.50, in thin trading, seemingly resuming their recent trend downward after rising earlier this week. [D13.]
The dollar dropped sharply in light trading, weakened by expectations that the currency will lose more value as the American economy struggles to overcome the recession. [D13.]
 
The Economy
U.S. oil-drilling activity in 1991 is certain to rank as the slowest of any year since the Government restricted drilling for military reasons in 1942. [D1.]
Bush will nominate Barbara H. Franklin to be Commerce Secretary, he announced. She is a well-connected management consultant, corporate director and Republican fund-raiser. [D1.]
Barbara H. Franklin will inherit an agency diminished by its loss of primacy over international trade and somewhat weakened by the management style of Robert A. Mosbacher, who has played a limited role in interagency debates on issues like tax and health policy and international trade. News Analysis. [D1.]
The virtual monopolies that local telephone companies have long enjoyed are under attack by state regulators around the country, led by those in New York. Regulators and analysts predict that new competition will lead to lower prices, wider availability of advanced technologies and the ability to use backup services when primary telephone companies break down. [A1.]
New applications for jobless benefits fell 20,000 in mid-December, the Government said, but the number of claims remained at recession levels. [D12.]
 
Companies
I.B.M. said it had agreed to allow Hitachi to resell I.B.M.-made notebook computers in Japan under the Hitachi name. It did not disclose details of the agreement. [D1.]
Chiron said it had agreed in principle to acquire 50 percent of the vaccine business of Sclavo, a privately held Italian company, for about $64 million. [D3.]
 
International
U.S. companies are treating the former Soviet territories as wild, unpredictable places, without reliable laws, but good for trying to strike it rich with ventures that skim the cream from an economy in disarray. [A1.]
Japan's current-account balance widened to a $7.26 billion surplus in November, more than a threefold increase. Japanese officials are bracing for stinging attacks from Washington, and economists say that when Mr. Bush arrives in Japan on Jan. 7 for a four-day visit, much of the lobbying is likely to be aimed at opening Japanese domestic markets. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
The advertising that bombarded consumers this year tried mightily to sell with style, despite some tight budgets, and to sell with a smile, despite much gloom. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Is 1992 shaping up as the analogue of 1932? Or do we know enough economics to stop that from ever happening again? Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
In the steel industry, things are about to improve, though not greatly, some analysts say. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); US DOLLAR (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BONDS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



903 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Turning Over A Ship Adrift

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26

 BODY:
President Bush's choice for Commerce Secretary, Barbara H. Franklin, will inherit an agency diminished by its loss of primacy over international trade and somewhat weakened by the management style of its current leader, Robert A. Mosbacher.
Mr. Mosbacher, who will leave next month to head the President's re-election campaign, has played a limited role in interagency debates on business-related issues like tax and health policy and international trade. Unlike his combative predecessor, Malcolm Baldrige, he has spent much of his tenure jetting around the world on trade missions with the nation's corporate elite, seeking to open new markets for American exports. 
 And even though he is a close friend of President Bush, Mr. Mosbacher has not always chosen to use the relationship to push his own views or his agency's cause.
 
Losing Policy Debates
 The result, say Mr. Mosbacher's critics -- who include Administration officials and Washington trade experts, some of whom consider themselves friends and allies of the Commerce Secretary -- has been an agency adrift.
A small crew of veteran administrators continues to work long hours on technical issues like weather forecasting, the census and economic indicators, while the department loses policy debates to other Government agencies and watches from the sidelines while others determine the nation's health and tax policies.
And with the recent departure of several senior officials and the possible departure of several others, even the department's technical competence has been questioned.
"The department needs to be much more broad-gauged and not just a Chamber of Commerce," said a top Administration official, who, like other critics, insisted on anonymity. "There's a lot more to the Commerce Department than export promotion."
 
Defending the Secretary
 But other Administration officials and some corporate executives strongly disagree. They point out that Mr. Mosbacher has worked well with businesses, and defend his emphasis on exports in light of the growing concern about the nation's economic competitiveness.
He has promoted American exports with some success, including forcing Japan to amend its regulations on large retail stores, which allowed Toys "R" Us to open its first discount outlet there last week.
"The biggest thing he did as I saw it was that he is someone American businessmen trust," said Donald B. Marron, the chairman and chief executive of Paine Webber Inc. "He understands the issues; he's a good listener; he doesn't give people a lot of baloney."
Roger B. Porter, the assistant to the President for economic and domestic policy and a former Harvard University professor who has studied the nation's trade policy, said the department had not lost influence during Mr. Mosbacher's tenure.
"Bob Mosbacher has as close a personal relationship with the President as any Commerce Secretary has had in the post-World War II period," he said.
Mr. Porter, who served in the Ford and Reagan Administrations, said the officials and industry lobbyists who played down Mr. Mosbacher's role were exaggerating the influence of his predecessors and missing the extent to which Congress had strengthened the Office of the United States Trade Representative at the expense of the Commerce Department.
Legislation in 1974 and 1988 clearly designated the trade representative as the top trade negotiator, while the end of the cold war has left the Commerce Department's export control division with less to do, he said.
Mr. Mosbacher dismisses criticisms of his aloofness from policy matters as the complaints of "low-level nerds" in the Federal Government. The collegial nature of decision-making in the Bush Administration has obscured the extent of his involvement, Mr. Mosbacher said in an interview on Monday in his walnut-paneled, two-story office with a view of the Washington Monument.
 
A Measure of Persuasion
 Commerce Secretaries have traditionally championed the interests of business within the Administration. Mr. Mosbacher pointed to his success in persuading the White House that corporate leaders should accompany President Bush to Japan next month. And Mr. Mosbacher was the first Cabinet secretary to warn that banks' increasingly cautious lending policies were making it hard for companies to borrow.
Mr. Mosbacher waged a personal and ultimately successful crusade earlier this year to persuade the Japanese to stop importing the shells of endangered sea turtles, a goal that had eluded American officials and environmentalists for a decade.
The Commerce Department is also playing the lead negotiating role on American trade in automobiles and auto parts with Japan, the biggest bilateral commercial issue.
 
Illustration of Limits
 Yet Mr. Mosbacher's sometimes limited influence as a Cabinet secretary was illustrated again last Friday, when he scheduled a news briefing at the White House to discuss his successful effort to send top corporate executives with the President on his trip to Asia next month.
Samuel K. Skinner, the new White House chief of staff, appeared at the briefing and took the podium first, praising the decision to take the executives on the trip and then listing the President's key economic policy advisers as the Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady; the budget director, Richard Darman, and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Michael Boskin.
Mr. Skinner conspicuously did not mention either Mr. Mosbacher, who was standing nearby, or the Commerce Department, which has traditionally played a role in economic policy-making.
The incident highlighted the erosion of the Commerce Department's vast bureaucratic turf. The trade representative, Carla A. Hills, now dominates trade policy. The Departments of State and Defense increasingly share the Commerce Department's role in deciding export control issues. And White House officials, especially the chiefs of staff, John H. Sununu and now Mr. Skinner, dominate domestic economic policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); WEATHER (66%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FRANKLIN, BARBARA HACKMAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



904 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Slow Year In Drilling For U.S. Oil

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 26

 BODY:
When the final weekly figures for the year are released on Friday, oil-drilling activity for the United States in 1991 is certain to rank as the slowest of any year since the Government restricted drilling for military reasons in 1942.
The energy industry clamped down on domestic drilling as it confronted low prices for crude and natural gas, the recession and environmental laws that forbid the industry to drill in prime areas of potentially big reserves in Alaska and near the California coastline. 
 Even in the months before the allied bombardment of Baghdad began last January, as prices for domestic crude surged to $40 a barrel, the nation's oil giants kept a steady hand on drilling budgets.
 
Controls to Tighten
 And now, with prices for domestic reserves at their lowest level in 10 months, $18.50 a barrel, and natural gas prices depressed anew, analysts and oil executives say the energy industry will keep an even tighter rein on domestic drilling budgets into next year. That is expected to put thousands more oilfield employees out of work and accelerate a new round of mergers and asset sales that recently began in drilling services.
The average number of rigs active weekly in 1991, as monitored by Baker Hughes Inc., the drilling services company, will be about 860, down by nearly 15 percent from 1,010 last year and below the postwar low of 869 set in 1989. The average for the week that ended last Friday was 797, down almost 31 percent from the 1,151 rigs in operation the comparable week a year ago.
 
More Imports Expected
 As the volume of oil pumped from domestic fields declines, the nation seems likely to import nearly half of its daily consumption of more than 16 million barrels, the oil executives and analysts said. Imports contributed an average of 45.7 percent of total supplies through November of this year, according to the American Petroleum Institute, the industry trade group based in Washington.
"The reality is that the economics for drilling in the United States are not attractive," said James L. Carroll, an analyst at Paine Webber Inc. in New York. "I certainly don't expect it to turn around anytime soon. Most companies are planning for a U.S. rig count between 700 and 750 rigs in 1992."
The nation's lowest level of drilling activity since records were begun in 1940 was an average of 761 active rigs in 1942, when the Government temporarily diverted steel output from drilling-pipe production just before the nation entered World War II.
Ike Kerridge, the chief economist at Baker Hughes, said drilling for natural gas could also decline further next year. The tax credits that stimulated some drilling for natural gas this year in unconventional areas like tight rock formations and underground coal seams probably would not be extended by Congress, he said.
James W. Kinnear, the president and chief executive of Texaco Inc., the nation's third-largest oil company, said today that spending on exploration projects in the United States by his company had fallen to 55 percent of Texaco's global exploration budget, from 75 percent 10 years ago.
 
'Pretty Marked Change'
 "It's a pretty marked change," he said. "The promising areas in Alaska, offshore California and otherwise are simply not available to us. But areas outside the United States are really quite attractive."
Texaco expects, for instance, to recover three billion barrels in the coming years in Indonesia by flooding aging fields with steam to loosen the crude. And, among other projects, it has allocated $500 million in the British North Sea on a field that will yield the company more than 100 million barrels.
"We have to put our stockholders' money out there where we can make money on it," Mr. Kinnear said. "In the United States, environmental laws are soaking up a lot of capital," he added. "It is clearly the taxpayers and citizens who will pay the bill at the end of the day. Obviously, U.S. production is going to continue to drop."
 
Creating Jobs Abroad
 Allen E. Murray, the chairman and chief executive of the Mobil Corporation and outgoing head of the American Petroleum Institute, said in a speech last month that by discouraging drilling at home and importing higher amounts of oil, the nation was sending jobs to oil-exporting nations.
The number of oilfield workers in the United States declined to 382,000 in November, from 402,300 in the same month a year ago, and from the yearly peak of 708,300 in 1982, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Most large oil companies have accelerated spending on foreign projects in recent years. Since 1989, the oil industry has invested more money in the hunt for oil outside the United States than within the nation's borders, according to Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm.
The Chevron Corporation spent more money abroad than in the United States this year for the first time -- an estimated $486 million, or more than 50 percent for foreign drilling from a total exploration budget of $944 million. In 1987, Chevron's foreign spending totaled $187 million, or 27 percent, of a total exploration budget of $685 million.
Earlier this month, the Pennzoil Company said its future exploration efforts would mainly be abroad. The retreat from current projects, mostly in the United States, reflects "a major business opportunity" to broaden the company's limited activities abroad, said James L. Pate, the president and chief executive.
Slumping oil prices have also put a damper on global drilling activity since the Persian Gulf war ended in March, but the decline has been less severe outside the United States. The average weekly drilling rate for 1991 outside the nation was 1,040 rigs, a slight decline from the levels of 1989 and 1990, according to Baker Hughes, which is based in Houston.
Dozens of countries that once shunned American oil giants are now wooing them to help raise oil output. They include Albania, Bulgaria and Vietnam and several republics of the former Soviet Union, said Mr. Carroll, the Paine Webber analyst. "The United States is the only country that has not improved fiscal terms or concessions since the war ended," he said.
The decline in the nation's search for oil and natural gas has some bright spots. It partly reflects greater productivity based on improved seismic studies to locate reserves and on better drilling equipment that together have reduced the number of dry holes. And one effect of the reduced drilling is that the nation will better conserve what remains of its fossil-fuel resources for future generations.
Mr. Kinnear of Texaco, who is not an alarmist about falling domestic drilling rates, said the best policy for the nation would include a combination of imports from many foreign producers, as well as conservation and economically prudent oil production at home.
Yet the decline in drilling will inevitably weaken smaller oilfield service companies, whose customers drilled mainly in the United States.
"We are in the early stages of another round of consolidation in the oilfield services that will be similar to what we saw in 1986" after oil prices fell to $12, from $27 early in the year, Mr. Carroll said. "Earnings this year have been nothing short of disaster."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Slowdown in Drilling" shows average number of active drilling rigs from '51-'91. (Source: Baker Hughes Inc.) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BHI (SWX) (93%); BHI (NYSE) (93%); CVX (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%); 

COMPANY: BAKER HUGHES INC (93%); CHEVRON CORP (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); TAX LAW (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (56%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



905 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Mild Optimism For Steelmakers

BYLINE: By Jonathan P. Hicks

 BODY:
IN the last year, the steel industry has suffered some of its worst times since the early 1980's.
After years of closing plants, laying off workers, and improving productivity, steelmakers' fortunes began to improve markedly by the late 1980's. But the recession has eroded nearly all those gains. The question now: How long will the bad times linger? 
 To hear analysts tell it, things are about to improve, although not greatly. With losses among the big steelmakers expected to surpass $1 billion this year, some expect a return to a modest profitability next year. John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants, says he expects the nation's largest steel companies to earn a combined $1.2 billion in profits next year. That compares with $3 billion in 1989, the industry's most recent banner year.
His optimism is based on the expectation that the economy will grow about 3 percent next year. About 400,000 more cars will be sold, he predicts, and demand for industrial products and appliances -- the leading sources of steel consumption -- will increase.
"Steel usually experiences a lag coming out of the recession," Mr. Jacobson said. "But some of the negatives that affect steel, like a buildup in inventories during a recession, will not be the case."
The USX Corporation's steel division seems to hold the most promise for financial improvement, said Charles Bradford, an analyst with UBS Securities. Mr. Bradford said the company had less debt than most competitors and had streamlined its overhead and production costs efficiently. And although he expects the steel company to have a loss of about $2.25 a share for this year, he predicts it will earn about $3.50 a share next year. The shares of USX's U.S. Steel Group closed yesterday at $26 each, up 50 cents.
Mr. Bradford further predicted that the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the nation's second-largest producer, would earn $1.35 a share next year, compared with an expected loss of $2.80 a share. The Inland Steel Company, he forecast, will break even next year, after an expected loss of $4.35 a share for this year. Bethlehem Steel's shares were up 37.5 cents each yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange to close at $12.875. Inland stock was up 37.5 cents a share, closing at $18.75.
And the smaller steel companies -- which have largely remained profitable during the recession -- will also show improvement, Mr. Bradford said. But their gains will be less dramatic than their larger rivals.
Mr. Bradford expects the Nucor Corporation, the steel mini-mill company that is moving aggressively to compete against larger rivals in flat-rolled steel, to show earnings of $4 a share next year, from an anticipated $2.75 this year. In Big Board trading yesterday, Nucor's shares closed at $79.50, off 25 cents.
Mr. Jacobson of AUS added that the steel industry was now in a better competitive position than at the end of the last recession in 1982, when there was a great deal of excess capacity, the dollar was strengthening and prices were not particularly strong. This time, he said, "there isn't as much excess capacity, the dollar is weak and there has been a great deal of retrenchment in the steel industry." He added that the number of worker hours needed to make a ton of steel exceeded 10 in 1982, compared with 3 to 4 now. That compares with an average 4.5 in Japan and is far lower than in Korea and Brazil.
Pricing is another area that has shown some promise in recent months. After leveling off toward the end of last year following a downward decline, steel prices have been picking up slightly in the last two months. Led by an effort by the LTV Corporation's steel unit, prices have risen 2 to 3 percent since the summer. And USX announced another round of price increases for April.
The pricing, more than anything, will account for steelmakers' profitability, analysts maintain. Mr. Jacobson estimates that a 2 percent rise in prices translates into an added $800 million in sales and could be as much as $80 million in profits. Still, "steel prices are about $57 a ton less than what they were in 1989 and $45 a ton less than a year ago," Mr. Jacobson said. "So price improvement would mean all the difference."
But that has always been particularly difficult for the steelmakers, which typically compete on pricing to hold on to market share, often taking losses in the process. "There is still a lot of uncertainty about the economy, the auto industry and its layoffs, which work against pricing," Mr. Jacobson said. "But there is a shot that the increases in April might hold."
Mr. Bradford, the UBS analyst, pointed out that much of the losses reported by the major steel companies resulted from special items. "Each of the steel companies had programs to rebuild and modernize," Mr. Bradford said. "With those programs nearly complete, it will help the industry's competitive position."
Still, there are some sobering forces. Mr. Bradford and several other analysts say that it is highly unlikely that the price increases announced by USX for next April will stick.
Moreover, orders have been down slightly in recent months, and many in the industry fear they may erode further before picking up in the spring. "We think things have bottomed out," said the chairman of a major steel company, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But you can never be sure. We're watching things closer than ever, hoping that orders will pick up in the next month or two."
Nonetheless, most analysts are optimistic, although cautiously so. "It seems that the economy will turn around and the hard work since the last recession will pay off," Mr. Jacobson said. "It is an election year, and things are bound to get better."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NUE (NYSE) (85%); MRO (NYSE) (82%); X (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (85%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (84%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (84%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NUCOR CORP (85%); ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (84%); MARATHON OIL CORP (82%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (82%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; FORECASTS IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INVENTORIES (73%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



906 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Wachtler, in Letter, Vows To Seek Raises for Judges

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Despite budget cuts and hundreds of layoffs that have devastated the New York State court system, the state's Chief Judge has pledged to fight for pay increases for more than 1,100 state judges, saying they "deserve and must have" raises denied to them for more than four years.
"While judges must share the pain of the fiscal crisis, it is grossly unfair to single them out among the personnel of the co-equal branches of government to bear financial sacrifices far greater than those being imposed on others," Chief Judge Sol Wachtler of the Court of Appeals said in a letter to the judges. "Please rest assured that I will continue to use all of my energies to achieve a salary increase for judges." 
 The holiday message, dated Dec. 13 and addressed to "Dear Colleague," was reported in The Daily News yesterday and quickly stirred denunciations from unions representing court officers and other nonjudicial personnel, and from a spokeswoman for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who has exchanged lawsuits with Judge Wachtler in a running feud over financing for the courts.
 
Timing Is Criticized
 "The timing of the judge's letter is inappropriate, and it suggests he is unfeeling," said John McKillop, president of the New York State Supreme Court Officers Association, representing 1,180 uniformed court officers, whose morale, he said, had sunk to new lows amid layoffs and budget cuts.
Anne Crowley, speaking for the Governor, said of Judge Wachtler: "His startling request for raises for judges at this time of hardship for the hardworking people of the middle class, and those in poverty, does more to impair his credibility than we could."
Judge Wachtler, who did not ask for judicial pay increases in his budget request on Dec. 1 or in his lawsuit, said in an interview yesterday that he did not mean in his letter to imply that he wanted immediate raises for judges, or even raises during the current fiscal crisis.
 
'When Funds Are Available'
 "Ultimately, when the state economy improves and when funds are available -- when the fiscal crisis eases -- we will seek to have judges brought up to the equivalent of personnel in the executive branch of government who are earning more than judges," Judge Wachtler said. "I just did not want to them think that another eon would pass until they are considered."
Judge Wachtler said his recent budget message had asked for more money only for the union workers. "The unions should know that every penny in the budget message this year is for the nonjudicial personnel," he said.
The judges paid by the state -- in contrast to justices of the peace and others paid by counties and municipalities -- sit in criminal, civil and family courts and are paid an average of $84,000 a year, though the 300 State Supreme Court Justices are paid $95,000. Uniformed court officers are paid an average of $35,000 a year.
The court system, which has 13,000 employees, began its fiscal year in April with a $901 million budget. That amount was cut by $34 million in September, requiring 495 layoffs and sharp cuts in court functions, and the system faces another $26 million cut early next year that could lead to hundreds of additional layoffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WAGES AND SALARIES JUDGES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); FAMILY COURTS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); APPEALS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: WACHTLER, SOL (CHIEF JUDGE); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



907 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Thieving Lawyers Draining Client Security Funds

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

 BODY:
Frederick Miller runs the New York State fund that reimburses people who have been robbed by their lawyers, and he has been sending out a lot of checks lately. There is no end in sight, so he's getting pretty worried.
"We have pending losses in excess of $35 million," Mr. Miller said. "We have assets of approximately $2 million." 
 The run on New York's fund, the Lawyers Fund for Client Protection, is the most dramatic example of the pressure such funds are facing around the country. More and more claims are being filed, officials say, leading them to be concerned not only about the state of the funds, but also about the state of the legal profession.
Although the rise in claims probably has other causes as well, a combination of hard times and abuse of alcohol and drugs is apparently driving more lawyers to dip into clients' estate and trust funds or pilfer their settlement checks or down payments on homes.
 
Funds Vary Widely
 Client security funds, which exist in every state except Kansas, Maine, New Mexico and North Dakota, cover only bare theft, not losses resulting from malpractice or excessive fees. Though they differ widely from state to state, the funds generally draw their revenue from fees levied on lawyers.
In New York, claims climbed from 311 in 1987 to 497 this year. No overall national data are available.
Gilbert Webb, assistant client protection counsel for the American Bar Association's Center for Professional Responsibility, is surveying the funds, but he says the numbers are not all in. "It's really hard to report a general trend," he said.
But fund managers were less tentative. "This is generally the story all over the country," said Mr. Miller, who is also chairman of the A.B.A.'s Advisory Commission on Client Protection Funds.
 
Florida Repayments Are Cut
 Because of a sudden rise in claims last year, the Florida Client Security Fund has had to reduce repayments to reach all its claimants with at least some money. "Our fund was tooling along, paying out $200,000, $300,000, and last year we got hit with this $1.3 million," said William Ricker, chairman of the fund.
"Times have changed, and I think with the recession there's going to be even more theft," he added.
Claims against Connecticut's client security fund have continued to increase steadily since the crimes of one lawyer yielded a record 23 approved claims in 1987, said George A. Buckley Jr., assistant executive director for the Connecticut Bar Association. The fund is seeking new sources of revenue.
In California, "applications increased tremendously in the late 80's," said Kiyoko Tatsui, director of the Client Security Fund for the California bar. This year she may have to pay out a record $3 million. Many lawyers who steal because of hard economic times today, she said, will not show up in the form of increased claims for a year or two.
 
A Public Service Venture
 To cover increases in claims, the funds can increase the revenue they receive from fees, as California's fund did in 1990, or cut the amount they will pay out per claim, as New York's did in July and may have to do again. Or the funds simply go out of business, as North Dakota's did this fall. The funds are not obligated to repay bilked clients; they are simply out to perform a public, and public relations, service on behalf of the legal profession.
As a result, unlike the fund that insured deposits in the nation's savings and loans, the client security funds will never be bailed out by the taxpayers. But lawyers and fund managers suggested that, as with the savings and loans, the funds' beggared condition provides a rough index of growing moral poverty among professionals whom people trust, not only with their savings but also with their secrets and even their dying requests.
Lawyers' victims tend to be society's most vulnerable members: the elderly, the illiterate, the very young. "We're not dealing with Lee Iacocca or Jackie Kennedy Onassis," Mr. Miller said. "It's the widows and orphans that are the saddest cases."
Besides pointing to drug and alcohol abuse and hard times, many lawyers trying to explain the rise in claims cited growing public awareness of the funds and the fact that there are more lawyers now.
 
'L.A. Law' Is Blamed
 "In the past 10 years there's more lawyers, there's more young lawyers, there's more lawyers building up a rich life style," said Geoffrey Hazard, Sterling Professor at the Yale Law School and a member of the A.B.A.'s Committee on Lawyers' Responsibility for Client Protection. "They made some investments, and some have been caught short."
Because it raised expectations of the kind of way of life lawyers should enjoy, the television show "L.A. Law" may also be to blame.
"There may be this sense from 'L.A. Law' that you graduate law school and you walk into a posh office and someone hands you the keys to a Porche, but there are a lot of lawyers out there who are struggling," said Ken Bossong, director and counsel of the New Jersey Lawyers' Fund for Client Protection, where claims and payouts are also on the rise.
Mr. Miller, the New York fund manager, said of lawyers who steal, "It's no excuse, but they have to eat."
The odds that any given lawyer will steal are still quite small. "One half of 1 percent of attorneys ever get into something like this," Mr. Bossong said. "And even among that group it's only a handful that really do the damage." Of the 45,000 lawyers in New Jersey, he said, 36 were responsible for the 126 claims approved by New Jersey's fund this year.
But the damage done by those few lawyers can be severe. Just as no one can rob a bank as smoothly or completely as a banker, no one can break the law quite like a lawyer.
"You become a victim once, that's why you go to an attorney, and then you get victimized again," said Cathy Proscia, whose lawyer absconded a year and a half ago with thousands of dollars due her from a settlement after her daughter's arm was ripped open by a chain swing. "You know, dealing with a man in a three-piece suit, an attorney from the Upper East Side, I'm not prepared to get robbed."
Mrs. Proscia, an executive secretary with Home Box Office, began to cry as she described hearing two weeks ago from Mr. Miller that the Lawyers' Fund would make up her entire loss.
 
Payoff After Conviction
 Vermont established the first client security fund in 1956. New York's Lawyers' Fund was created in 1981 and is financed mostly by portions of the $300 registration fee that the state's lawyers pay every two years.
New York's fund is typical in paying off clients only after their lawyers have been found guilty of misusing client funds by the court system. The lawyers are generally disbarred, if not convicted and imprisoned.
New York's fund pays as much as $50,000 to cover a client's losses. The cap was $100,000 per person until last summer, when the rising number of claims forced the trustees who supervise the fund to halve it. They may have to cut it further, Mr. Miller said. So far, the fund has disbursed $22 million to 1,943 victims.
In New York, the crooked lawyers have ranged from Robert B. Anderson, a former United States Secretary of the Treasury who stole a widow's retirement money, to Jack B. Solerwitz, 86 of whose victims cost the Lawyer's Fund almost $3 million, and to a lawyer in Otsego County who tacked an invented heiress onto an illiterate client's will and then, to create a paper trail, dressed as a woman and checked into a motel in Little Falls under her name. Mr. Miller said that at a probate hearing the judge caught on after a clerk from the motel described the mystery woman as 6 feet tall, 200 pounds and "a Bea Arthur look-alike."
 
Profile of Lawbreakers
 More recently, a New York lawyer stole the inheritance of a young man institutionalized with Down syndrome. Then there is the case of Sergio Taub, a lawyer from Queens who was shot and killed while driving home on the Meadowbrook Parkway in September, apparently by gunmen hired by his wife's lover. Lawyers picking through his estate found that close to $200,000 was missing from his clients' trust accounts, most of it down payments of about $3,000 apiece on homes in Queens.
"Every time I think I've seen it all, bam! In comes another," Mr. Miller said.
Lawyers who break the law are generally middle-aged men and tend to have some sort of addiction. "It's always drugs or alcohol, women, gambling -- craziness," said Eleanor Breitel Alter, a Manhattan lawyer who is chairman of the New York Lawyers' Fund.
In North Dakota, whose poorly financed client security fund recently went bankrupt, all six outstanding claims are against lawyers who stole to feed their cocaine habits, said Sherry King, acting executive director of the State Bar Association of North Dakota.
 
Ex-Addict Repays Fund
 Steven Winston, a lawyer in Manhattan, said: "I can tell you as an addict, all that matters is your drugs. You don't think about your wife or kids, so the last thing you think about is your career or clients."
The New York Lawyers' Fund paid $12,500 to a client of Mr. Winston, who later repaid the fund and now works as general counsel for Daytop Village Inc., where he underwent drug treatment.
The trustees of some client security funds have pushed for changes in the law that would allow them to spot dishonest lawyers quickly.
In New York, the remarkable career of Jerome Louis Spiegelman, who fleeced dozens of clients by secretly settling their personal injury cases and pocketing the proceeds, prompted the fund's trustees to push the State Insurance Department for a regulation, in force since 1988, that requires insurance companies to notify clients when they send settlement checks to their lawyers. The state's lawyers and bankers are now negotiating over a regulation that would force banks to report to the fund when checks bounce against attorney trust or escrow accounts.
State bar associations can generally inform clients if their lawyers are in good standing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "You become a victim once -- that's why you go to an attorney -- and then you get victimized again," said Cathy Proscia, whose lawyer absconded with thousands of dollars due her from a settlement after her daughter's arm was ripped open by a chain swing.; The Lawyers' Fund for Client Protection is making up the entire loss resulting from the accident involving Mrs. Proscia's daughter. (F. N. Kinney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (84%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (84%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING LAWYERS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ETHICS (74%); TRENDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (53%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



908 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: No Budget Deal, No Break: Cuomo Orders Senate Back

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 26

 BODY:
The struggle over the state budget continued today with no progress, but, as he said he would last week, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo ordered all members of the Republican-led State Senate back to work on Friday.
The Governor's executive order applied only to the Senate, not to the Democratic-controlled Assembly. It appeared to be an attempt to force the Senators to act on an $875 million deficit-reduction package that the Assembly has already approved. The Senate Finance Committee rejected that package on Monday. 
 "This is nothing more than a costly p.r. stunt," said Edward Martin, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino.
 
Growing Irritated
 The Governor has increasingly expressed irritation with the Senate over its refusal to agree on an approach to closing the $875 million gap in the state's $30 billion budget. The Senate has been holding out for more cuts in Medicaid and welfare spending as well as for a plan that it says would attack the $4 billion potential gap in next year's budget.
Emerging from an afternoon meeting with Mr. Marino and the new Assembly Speaker, Saul Weprin, Mr. Cuomo said his staff was working on new legislation that he hoped would appeal to the Senate. Senate officials said they would study the proposal overnight.
The state Constitution gives the governor the authority to summon lawmakers back to Albany, but once they get here he cannot make them actually do anything.
 
Christmas Called Ruined
 Mr. Martin said the Governor's strategy would not work. "Going out of your way to ruin someone's Christmas holiday does not lend itself to making friends and influencing people," he said.
Mr. Cuomo, who is not up for reelection next year, and Mr. Weprin have both been openly skeptical in recent days that the 15-month budget proposal can be agreed to.
The crux of the dispute remains how to apportion hundreds of millions of dollars of spending cuts. The Senate continues to insist that most of the cuts be made in social-service programs. Their costs have risen in some cases by almost 20 percent in the last year, in part because of the recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (86%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MEDICAID (73%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CHRISTMAS (69%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



909 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar and Gold Off Sharply, But Trading Remains Light

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar dropped sharply yesterday in light trading, weakened by expectations that it will lose more value as the American economy struggles to overcome the recession.
Gold prices also fell sharply, but traders said the decline was exaggerated by Japanese selling in an extremely thin market. There was no significant economic news to influence precious-metals trading. 
 "Because you have a lot less activity, there hasn't been anybody on the other side to buy," said Nina Lipton, head of research at the Platinum Guild, a New York precious metals concern.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, bullion for current delivery fell to $354.50 an ounce, down $4.60 from Tuesday. At the Republic National Bank in New York, gold fetched $354.95 an ounce, off $4.30 from Tuesday. Almost all markets were closed on Christmas Day, and most markets in Europe and in Hong Kong were closed yesterday as well.
Currency dealers said sentiment in the foreign-exchange markets had increasingly been turning against the dollar.
Last week, the Federal Reserve sharply lowered interest rates in the United States to stimulate lending and reinvigorate the anemic economy. Meanwhile, the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, raised its key domestic interest rates to battle inflation.
As a result of these conflicting moves, traders moved to sell dollars as the rate of return on dollar-denominated investments became less competitive. Moreover, traders said, there is no indication that the Bush Administration is overly concerned about the dollar's worth.
Expectations are also growing that President Bush will put pressure on the Japanese to raise the value of the yen to help ease the trade imbalance between the United States and Japan when he visits Tokyo next month. A stronger yen would make Japanese exports more expensive in the United States.
"The dollar is very weak," said Shigeru Tokunaga, vice president and foreign exchange manager at the New York branch of the Fuji Bank of Japan. "The sentiment is very bad for the dollar."
Hillel Waxman, chief dealer for foreign exchange at the New York branch of the Bank Leumi Trust Company, said he foresaw no events in coming days that could help the dollar. Indeed, he said, "whatever news there is won't be positive news."
In Tokyo, the dollar fell for the fourth straight trading day, closing at 126.65 yen, down 0.35 yen from Wednesday. In New York, the dollar closed even lower at 126.40 yen, down from 127.55 yen on Tuesday. These are the lowest levels for the dollar since the fall of 1990.
The British pound fetched $1.8840 in New York, up from $1.8735 late Tuesday.
Other dollar rates in New York yesterday, compared with Tuesday's rates, included: 1.5075 German marks, down from 1.5205; 1.3435 Swiss francs, down from 1.3490; 1.1605 Canadian dollars, unchanged; 5.1580 French francs, down from 5.1995, and 1,143.50 Italian lire, down from 1,152.00.
In silver trading, silver for current delivery slipped to $3.90 an ounce, down from $3.903 on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (56%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (88%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BRITISH POUND (68%); GERMAN MARK (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CHRISTMAS (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



910 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Tax-Exempt Yields Are Up; Taxables Continue to Drop

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on tax-exempt money market funds showed a significant rise over the last week, according to IBC/ Donoghue's, which monitors the funds and issues The Money Fund Report. At the same time the taxable funds continued their steady downward progress, dropping quite sharply.
Referring to the tax-exempts, Walter S. Frank, chief economist for IBC/ Donoghue's, said that yields had probably risen "because of the large supply of municipal securities that has come to market before the year end." 
 But he said total assets of the tax- exempts were $91.5 billion, down $1.2 billion for the week. The decline probably indicated that a substantial number of investors had withdrawn money to seek better yields elsewhere.
 
Shorter Maturity
 The average days to maturity of the holdings of the tax-free funds dropped by one day, to 58 from 59 days.
The seven-day compound average yield for the tax-exempts was 4.01 percent, up 22 basis point from last week, which he called a sharp rise. The seven-day simple yield for the tax-exempt funds also showed an increase, rising by 20 basis points, to 3.93 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
The 30-day compound yield was 3.83, up 6 basis points from the previous week, and the 30-day simple yield was 3.76 percent, also up 6 basis points.
Among tax-exempt funds investing in individual state securities, the top New York fund was once again Salomon Brothers New York Municipal Money Market Fund, which reported a seven-day compound yield of 4.52 percent versus 4.48 percent a week earlier.
 
Top New York Fund
 In Connecticut the top-yielding fund this week again was Dreyfus Connecticut Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.35 percent, compared with a yield of 4.14 percent.
New Jersey's leading fund for yields was again Calvert Tax Free Reserve New Jersey with a seven-day compound yield of 4.42 percent, compared with 4.30 percent a week earlier.
Nationwide, among those funds with $100 million or more in assets, the highest-yield performance for the week was once again turned in by Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.97 percent, compared with 4.80 percent a week earlier.
 
Outflow of Assets
 With regard to the taxable funds, Martha Wittbrodt, editor of the IBC/ Donoghue Money Fund Report, said that their total assets showed a sizable drop, declining $6.4 billion to a total of $468.8 billion. She said, "Most of the asset outflow can be attributed to seasonal factors, which would include window dressing by institutional holders who like to show more cash on their books at year-end and withdrawals for holiday spending by individuals."
She said that "taxable money fund yields will continue to decline, especially in view of the Federal Reserve's aggressive move to cut the discount rate by a full percentage point about a week ago."
The average days to maturity of the portfolio holdings held steady at 61 days, indicating that money managers were trying to lock in rates ahead of the further expected declines in yields, according to Miss Wittbrodt.
 
Taxable Yields Drop
 The seven-day compound yield on the taxable funds was 4.64 percent, compared with 4.70 last week, and the seven-day simple yield for the taxable funds was was 4.53 percent, compared with 4.59 percent. In each instance the decline was 6 basis points.
Meanwhile, the average compound 30-day yield dropped to 4.72 percent, down 5 basis points from 4.77 percent, and the 30-day simple yield was 4.61 percent, also down 5 basis points from 4.66 percent.
Among the taxables the top-yielding fund for the week was Riverside Capital Money Market Fund of Columbus, Ohio, with a yield of 16.87 percent, which includes capital gains.
By comparison, bank money market accounts, a main competitor of money funds, yielded 4.34 percent and certificates of deposit yielded an average of 4.37 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's weekly national index issued on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from Jan.-Dec. '91. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from Sept.-Dec. '91. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

ORGANIZATION: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (79%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



911 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Japan Posted Trade Surplus Of $7.26 Billion Last Month

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 26

 BODY:
Only days before President Bush visits Japan to tackle a number of thorny trade issues, Tokyo announced today a more than threefold increase in its current-account balance of payments surplus.
The nation's current-account balance, the broadest measure of trade in good and services, widened to a $7.26 billion surplus in November without being adjusted for seasonal factors, from a surplus of $1.69 billion in the same month last year, the Finance Ministry said. 
 Criticism of Japanese trade practices is mounting quickly in Congress, fueled by such developments as the General Motors Corporation's decision last week to close 21 plants and slash its work force by 74,000.
 
Preparing for Worst
 Japanese officials are bracing for stinging attacks from Washington, and economists say that when Mr. Bush arrives in Japan on Jan. 7 for a four-day visit, much of the lobbying will likely be aimed at opening Japanese domestic markets.
The primary component of the current account, the trade balance, ballooned to $8.65 billion last month, from $4.43 billion a year earlier.
In a pattern that has been evident much of the year, the surplus was pushed higher by a decline in Japanese imports. Imports fell to $17.64 billion, from $20.62 billion.
Although Japan's slowing domestic economy has undercut purchases of foreign goods much of the year, recent months have seen especially weak figures because of high oil prices a year ago.
Crude oil prices have plunged from highs during the Persian Gulf crisis, from around $34 a barrel in November 1990 to around $20 in November of this year.
But Japan's exports grew an unimpressive 5 percent, to $26.29 billion, from $25.05 billion a year ago.
Export growth has slowed sharply much of this year, as slower economic growth among Japan's main trading partners has curtailed what Japan sends abroad.
 
Car Makers Still Expanding
 But Kenneth Courtis, the senior economist at Deutsche Bank Capital Markets (Asia) Ltd., said Japanese car makers were still expanding their market share abroad as manufacturers in other nations were retrenching.
"The message is that in this key market, Japanese companies are still expanding," he said.
The most recent Finance Ministry figures showed that Japan's November trade surplus with the United States was $3.59 billion, up from $3.56 billion in the same month last year.
The other major component of Japan's current account, the category that includes trade in services, tourism and some unilateral transfers, had a $1.15 billion deficit, compared with a $2.48 billion shortfall a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



912 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Just Complaining;
Self-Fullfilling Pessimism Is Said to Infect New York

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
New Yorkers are good complainers. They love to moan about taxi drivers who don't know their way around the city, stalled subway trains, insufferable co-op boards -- anything to get across the constant indignities they have to put up with.
But lately, this pessimism has grown to the point where many people say they no longer see it as a reflection of other problems, but as a problem in and of itself. It is leading business executives to curtail investments in local operations and expand elsewhere. Longtime residents are making plans to move far away. Some even think this new pessimism is causing consumers to spend less. 
 "There's nothing worse for an economy than when people begin to lose hope," said Philip K. Howard, a Manhattan lawyer, recalling the widespread dissatisfaction with the city he encountered during his unsuccessful campaign, earlier this year, for a seat on the City Council. "It affects their decision-making and energy. It's like an infection."
 
Calling for Leadership
 Some city residents are calling for political leaders to make symbolic gestures that lift morale until the economy recovers and the fiscal situation improves. Others say confidence will not be restored until there is a comprehensive plan that promises a brighter future for the city and explains in detail how it can be realized.
A poll of the region taken last month by The New York Times captured the sense of unease that seems to be permeating the city. It found that 58 percent of city residents who were interviewed said the city would be a worse place to live 10 to 15 years from now, the highest level of disaffection registered since the question was first asked in a poll in 1973. Only 36 percent said they expected the city to stay the same or improve.
A full 60 percent said that if they had any choice, they would like to be living somewhere else four years from now; 37 percent said they would want to continue living in the city. Fifty-one percent said they had plans to eventually leave the city; 47 percent said they did not have such plans. The telephone poll of 824 adults throughout the city was conducted Nov. 2 to Nov. 12 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
"I think that may be the biggest problem we have, this pervasive loss of confidence in the city's future," said Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker who is chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was set up in 1975 to help stabilize the city's finances. "It's a terribly dangerous psychology, because people who are in a position to make decisions to move will move. If they're not at that decision-making point already, they're talking themselves into it." Mr. Rohatyn believes this loss of confidence is worse than it was during the city's last fiscal crisis, even though the problems then were in many ways more severe.
The lack of enthusiasm about the city's future reflected in The Times's poll spanned income, racial and age groups. While blacks were more optimistic about the city's future immediately after David N. Dinkins was elected mayor, their pessimism had returned to the same level as whites in this latest poll.
 
Planning to Move
 In follow-up interviews with over two dozen of those who participated in the poll and with business executives and civic leaders, New Yorkers spoke frequently of a feeling of hopelessness engulfing the city, eroding their desire to remain.
"I just can't see any light at the end of the tunnel," said Larry Bergin, a 45-year-old retired New York City police detective. "The school system has gone downhill, we're taxed like crazy, the services stink" He added, "I just don't see anything getting better."
Come January, Mr. Bergin plans to put his Staten Island house on the market, with the intention of moving his family to an area outside Scranton, Pa., that he and his wife came across in an intensive search for a new home last summer.
"It's a shame because I love the city," said Mr. Bergin, who was born in Brooklyn and has lived in the city all of his life. "But it's not just me -- people are leaving in droves."
The more people who become depressed about the future and leave, the smaller the tax base left to support public services. The danger is that this becomes a vicious cycle: as services decline, more people leave, forcing greater cuts in services, triggering still more departures.
Many who complain most are young and educated, with middle-class incomes gained from professions like nursing, administration and finance. They are the social and economic bedrock that would theoretically provide the city's next generation of growth.
 
New York's Not Alone
 New York is not the only city suffering from a rising chorus of complaints by its citizens. The combination of the national recession and the decline in Federal aid for cities has left many without the resources to cope with the growing problems of homelessness, AIDS and drug abuse while trying to provide a decent level of public services.
And the national mood of pessimism is surely not helping the city's morale. Add to that the tendency of New Yorkers to view themselves as the center of the universe, and one has the ingredients for a full-blown citywide crisis. "It's like personal depression, only on a mass scale," said Rudolph W. Giuliani, who lost to Mr. Dinkins in the last mayoral election and is likely to be a candidate in the next. "Everything looks bad, even when some things are good."
The causes of this collective depression vary. Many cited the debilitating effect that crime has had on their neighborhoods, making them feel unsafe walking home from the subway after work, forcing them to accompany their grown children to and from public school and leading them to fear for the security of their cars and their homes.
For some, particularly blacks, there was a growing fear of racial tension and police harassment of their children. "The different ethnic groups are not getting along," said Yvonne Grimsley, a 40-year-old black from Queens who makes more than $50,000 a year selling computers. "I worry about my son, wondering if he'll be stopped by the police because he's a boy of color." Many whites, meanwhile, complained that the recent wave of immigrants is dragging down the city. Young people said they did not want to raise families in the city, while older people were afraid of retirement in the city.
Contributing to this unease was a sense that the city government is no longer in command of the situation. The police do not respond when called. Public spaces have become the preserve of the homeless. Children are shot in school corridors. Traveling to work has become a question of dodging broken water mains, closed bridges and subway tunnels and seemingly endless street construction. And car alarms wail endlessly through the night, reminding their sleepless victims of just how helpless they are in controlling their environment.
 
Cuts Spending Plans
 "We don't expect the city to do anything except provide basic services," said Ira Nerenberg, who has lived in New York all his life and runs a woodworking company in Brooklyn. "But if you call the police, let them come." Mr. Nerenberg said he considers the city's future so bleak that he has decided to spend only a quarter of what he had originally intended to improve a building he took a 15-year lease on just last year. Future investment dollars, he said, will go toward setting up a factory outside the city.
"I think it's going to get worse," said Mr. Nerenberg, whose company employs about 100 people. "There's no sense of any hope. There's a total lack of leadership."
The absence of leadership was a common lament among those who spoke in follow-up interviews after the poll. Many blamed Mr. Dinkins, with whites in particular saying that he was elected only because he is black, and that he was not up to the job. Others said their disappointment extended to the business community and labor leaders.
 
Mayor Criticized
 "Maybe a coalition can do something about it, but everybody seems to be going their own way, looking after their own interests," said Emilio Rosario, a retired supervisor for a Stanley Works operation in New Jersey who plans to move to Florida with his family next year, after living in New York for 45 years.
Mayor Dinkins's spokesman, Leland T. Jones, contended that any pessimism about the city's future was similar to that felt in many other large cities across the country that are suffering from a cutoff of Federal aid. He admitted that some New York services have deteriorated, but insisted that many, like the subway system, have also improved. "I don't know why people say what they say," he said, of the pessimism expressed in The Times's poll.
Some of those people have concluded that the Mayor has either become so distant or so defensive that he does not recognize what many feel is now a key problem ailing the city. If he did, they say, he would at least be trying to engage in some cheerleading or symbolic exercises, instead of blaming the problem on external forces or trying to minimize its importance.
"People are hungry for leadership," said Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Arts Society. "Today many have the feeling, 'I don't know who's in charge here.' "
Mr. Barwick noted the warm reception given to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's presentation several months ago of his plans to invest $7 billion in public works projects in and around the city. "Even though most of those projects already existed, everyone was so thrilled to see someone pretending to lead and to have vision," Mr. Barwick said.
What can be done to restore confidence? An economic recovery would certainly help, but previous Times polls suggest that it is not the weak economy that is behind much of the pessimism. Lack of confidence in the city's future has been increasing steadily since 1985, even though the economy did not begin its present tailspin until 1988.
What most people seemed to yearn for was someone who could spell out how New York can get through its immediate financial crunch and how the city can then remake itself to get onto a more stable, longterm footing. Many who were interviewed after the poll said they feared that when better times returned, the city would simply resume its profligate ways, planting the seeds of the next crisis.
Where might new leadership come from to revamp the city? Many people, including Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, theorize that only when conditions are perceived to be bad enough will people with new and forceful ideas be pushed to the fore. Most admit, however, that they see little sign of that as yet.
Gerald L. Golub, a partner in the accounting firm of Goldstein Golub and Kessler, is one New Yorker whose faith has not been shaken. "There is an opportunity for someone to fire up the crowd and clean up this city," he said. "Whatever it takes, New Yorkers will do it."
Spoken like a true, but increasingly rare, New Yorker.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Larry Bergin, A 45-year-old retired New York City police detective. (Shown with his sons, Keith, left, and Justin.) -- "I just can't see any light at the end of the tunnel. The school system has gone downhill, we're taxed like crazy, the services stink. I just don't see anything getting better." (Edward Keating/The New York Times); Emilio Rosario, Retired supervisor for a Stanley Works operation in New Jersey. -- "Maybe a coalition can do something about it, but everybody seems to be going their own way, looking after their own interests." (Lee Romero/The New York Times); Ira Nerenberg, Runs a woodworking company in Brooklyn. -- "We don't expect the city to do anything except provide basic services. But if you call the police, let them come." (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. B2)
 
Graph: "Rising Pessimism . . . " shows number of white and black respondents who thought that New York City would be a worse place to live in 10 or 15 years.
 
Chart: ". . . Permeates All Groups" shows the percentage of people who say New York will be better, the same or worse in 10 or 15 years, catagorized by income, age and borough. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES CITIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAWYERS (54%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH; ROHATYN, FELIX G

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



913 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Fell by 20,000 in Midmonth

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26 (Reuters)

 BODY:
New applications for jobless benefits fell 20,000 in mid-December, the Government said today, but the number of claims remained at recession levels.
The Labor Department said first-time unemployment claims for the week that ended on Dec. 14 fell to 473,000, from 493,000 the previous week, which was inflated by a surge of applications after the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 "This is still at a very bad level," said Russ Sheldon, a senior economist at the Mellon Bank Corporation in Pittsburgh.
The four-week average, considered a more reliable indicator of the job market's health, has risen steadily since November, reversing the summer's downward trend.
For the last four weeks, claims averaged 464,000, up from 449,000 in the prior four-week period, and compared with about 415,000 in August.
Mr. Sheldon said the new claims reflected efforts by businesses to slash payrolls at the end of the year to get tax write-offs "and clear their slates for a better year ahead."
The rise in mid-December claims for state unemployment aid could point to a surge in the national jobless rate for the month to 7 percent, from 6.8 percent, economists said.
The number of jobs in the overall economy could shrink by about 50,000 when December's employment report is released on Jan. 7, they said. The survey for that report, a separate Labor Department tally of employers, was conducted the same week as the latest weekly jobless claims data.
 
End Is Said to Be Near
 Fred Sturm, a senior economist at Fuji Securities Inc. in Chicago, said he expected no further dramatic surges in the average weekly jobless claims.
"We don't see the economy nodding off to the second leg of a double-dip recession," he said. "For that reason, we would not see this uptrend in claims for much longer."
Mr. Sturm said the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cuts last week should assure a vigorous rebound next summer. Already the number of people continuing to claim unemployment benefits is stabilizing, he said.
The department also reported that the number of people actually on the jobless rolls fell the week that ended Dec. 7 by 138,000, to 3.3 million, the latest period for which data were available.
There was little reaction in financial markets to the latest jobless claims figures, which matched economists' projections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (71%); FUJI SECURITIES INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (96%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); THANKSGIVING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



914 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Post Modest Rise in Light Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Bond prices rose modestly yesterday on the strength of slight buying by mutual funds and other investors who had cash but were not willing to keep it invested in low-yielding short-term securities.
By late in the day, the 8 percent Treasury bonds due in 2021 were offered at 105 7/8, up by an eighth of a point on the day, to yield 7.50 percent, compared with 7.51 percent late on Tuesday. Shorter-term issues were little changed, with two-year notes closing with a yield of 4.83 percent and five-year notes at 6 percent. 
 Trading was light, as securities dealers and other speculators, their ranks thinned by the holidays, stayed on the sidelines.
 
Stocks Still Gaining
 But while the bond market was little changed, the stock market continued to rise sharply. To some analysts, the recent behavior of the two markets suggested sharply different views of the future. The bond market has rallied, with 30-year Treasury bond yields falling from 8 percent in early November, amid predictions that inflation will remain subdued while the economy and credit demands stay weak.
Stock prices, meanwhile, are moving to new highs, in anticipation of a stronger economy because of recent cuts in interest rates and some package of increased spending or tax cuts to be enacted by Congress next year.
"The stock market is strong, looking ahead to developments of next year, while the bond market right now is not too cerebral, and isn't looking much beyond next week," said Len Santow, an economist and co-author of the Griggs & Santow Report, one of the oldest newsletters on Wall Street covering the bond markets and the economy.
Mr. Santow said that fiscal and monetary policy "are going to get mroe stimulative," and that by the second half of next year, "the economy will be considerably stronger." By 1993 or 1994, he said, rising inflation may cause bond investors, with the benefit of 20-20 hindsight, to decide that economic policy makers provided more stimulus than was needed.
Alan C. Lerner, managing director at the Bankers Trust Company, noted in a recent issue of Prospects for Credit Markets, a bank publication, that recent Fed moves to reduce short-term interest rates reflected a desire "to get the economy rolling before the politicians act."
But he added that the Fed's moves would take time to bear fruit and that "it seems almost inevitable that Congress and the Administration will be competing in 1992 to stimulate the economy."
In addition to the danger of a revived economy, Mr. Santow said bond investors and traders might be overlooking the potential for a heavier supply of new Treasury securities if Congress and the President agreed on tax cuts or new spending programs.
While there were no new corporate bond offerings yesterday, investment bankers expect a flurry of new issues in early January, as corporate treasurers try to take advantage of low rates. Based on past episodes of herd behavior by large corporations, new bond sales could exceed $10 billion in a week, or more than four times the monthly average of new investment-grade corporate issues this year.
According to Salomon Brothers Inc., the average monthly volume this year was about $9.09 billion for new investment-grade issues and $1.37 billion of below investment-grade issues, including those that could be converted into common stock.
Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows average weekly yhields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates, in percent, from Sept.-Dec., 1991. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgate Corp.); "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Sept.-Dec., 1991. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); BOND ISSUES (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT FINANCING (74%); TAX LAW (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



915 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Colony Hotels President Has Started Settling In

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
When she was appointed president of Colony Hotels and Resorts last month, Joan Sills became probably the only woman to head a leading hotel company with worldwide operations. The 42 properties that Colony manages and markets consist of more than 8,700 rooms in hotels, resorts, condominiums and time-share units from Hawaii to Phuket, Thailand (where a luxury Colony hotel will open in April).
Started in Hawaii almost 25 years ago, Colony "just came along for the ride," Ms. Sills said, when the Carlson Companies of Minneapolis bought it in 1979, along with the much bigger Ask Mr. Foster travel agencies. Both are now part of the Carlson Hospitality Group, which includes all the hotel and restaurant operations of the $8.1 billion Carlson Companies, one of the largest privately owned corporations in the United States. 
 Although Colony appears nicely positioned for a turnaround in the economy, with properties in the Caribbean as well as in New England ski resorts, 1991 has been a bumpy ride for the resort industry. Leisure travel plummeted, hotel rates fell and corporations cut back sharply on meetings at resort hotels -- meetings that had accounted for $6 billion in 1990.
"It was definitely a tough year, especially the first quarter, which is the biggest quarter in Hawaii," said Ms. Sills, who is 38. "We predominantly focus on the leisure vacationer, so we weren't hit as hard by the fall-off in meetings. But people shortened their vacations and stayed closer to home, although we have begun to see some pickup."
A bachelor of arts graduate of Michigan State University who also holds an M.B.A. from Loyola College in Baltimore, Ms. Sills is a 16-year-veteran of the hospitality industry, the first 14 of them with the Marriott Corporation. Before her recent promotion she was executive vice president of Colony, responsible for most of its operations. As president she will oversee not only operations, but Colony's entire management and marketing functions as well.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan Sills, Colony Hotels & Resorts (Colony Hotels & Resorts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); HST (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (93%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (93%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

COMPANY: COLONY HOTELS & RESORTS CARLSON COS INC (93%); CARLSON HOTELS WORLDWIDE (84%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (65%); COLONY HOTELS & RESORTS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLONY HOTELS & RESORTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); HAWAII, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); RESORTS (92%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LODGING (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); 

PERSON: SILLS, JOAN

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



916 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
What's Different About This Slump

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
WHAT was at first regarded by the Bush Administration and the Federal Reserve as a mild and brief recession has become a long and painful one, possibly even what some economists are calling a "quiet depression."
David M. Jones, chief economist of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, says this slump is distinguished from its postwar predecessors by a clash between a dangerously overleveraged economy and unusually severe bank loan stringency. "The threat posed is an all-out private-sector credit contraction and asset price deflation, accompanied by mounting corporate bankruptcies and bank failures," he said. "The resulting decline in consumer wealth could curtail spending for a prolonged period." 
 Is 1992 shaping up as the analogue of 1932, the year when the recession of 1930-31 collapsed into depression? Or do we know enough economics to stop that from ever happening again?
Martin Feldstein, president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, says in his introduction to "The Risk of Economic Crisis," a book based on a conference of leading American economists: "Although the United States has been fortunate enough not to experience the kind of massive economic collapse that occurred from time to time until the worldwide depression of the 1930's, there is no doubt that the possibility of another such financial and economic crisis cannot be dismissed."
In that book, Hyman P. Minsky, professor of economics at Washington University, concludes that the reason a vicious downward spiral has not yet led to depression in postwar America is that apt intervention by the Government and the central bank can abort the process leading to depression at two points. One comes when endangered financial institutions are at the point of selling off assets; the institutions can be refinanced to prevent a wave of sales and a sharp and general fall of asset prices. Refinancing banks and crucial financial players, he says, is the basic central bank lender-of-last-resort operation.
The other intervention point comes when profits start falling, and the Government can act to avert collapse. In the model Mr. Minsky uses, total profits equal investment plus the Government deficit. To sustain profits during a period of falling investment, the Government can run a larger deficit.
Why did the United States Government not do that after the crash of 1929? Mr. Minsky's answer is that the Federal Government then made up only 3 percent of gross national product -- too small to offset the impact that falling investment between 1929 and 1933 had upon corporate profits.
Today's Government, constituting some 25 percent of G.N.P., is large enough to sustain profits by increasing the deficit through automatic stabilizers or fiscal policy. The combination of lender-of-last-resort interventions and increasing Federal deficits, he says, "explains why a serious, long-lasting and deep depression has not taken place up until now."
But could it happen now? Like Mr. Feldstein, Mr. Minsky says it could. Through nearly all of the postwar period, the United States had "fiscal autonomy" -- the power to take policy actions without much concern about adverse foreign reactions to the widening deficits that sustained domestic profits. "The situation may be different now," he warns. "The United States no longer is as autonomous or as powerful as in the past. Scenarios in which cooperation in maintaining global asset values and profit flows is necessary but not forthcoming can be sketched."
Foreigners now have enormous holdings of American financial assets. The big deficits the United States ran in relatively prosperous times would mean the deficit it would have to run to abort a financial crisis might be enormous. The interventions next time, Mr. Minsky says, "may well be beyond the combined efforts of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury." Containing a future financial and economic crisis, he says, "may depend more on what Japan and Europe do than upon the Fed and the U.S. Treasury."
But, just when cooperation among the United States, Japan and Europe is more critical than ever, tensions among them are rising. The Uruguay Round of trade talks is in jeopardy. Germany and the United States are moving in opposite directions on monetary policy, with Germany following a tight-money, anti-inflation policy.
The Fed, with the year nearly over, moved to cut the discount rate by a full percentage point. And the Administration, at last publicly acknowledging that the recession was continuing, intensified its search for fiscal stimuli.
Both the Fed and the White House were driven by news of plant closings by General Motors and others, layoffs, the troubles of financial institutions, weak Christmas sales and the approaching cold dawn of the 1992 election year.
Thus, the United States is moving to head off a not-so-quiet depression, despite the big deficit and foreign constraints, and 1992 will prove whether the anti-depression economic medicine can work in an economy that has gone global. With its year-end surge, the stock market was betting that it would.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (72%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD MARTIN STUART FELDSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



917 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: TV Weekend;
Examining the Scandals at a U.S. Relief Agency

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Sunday's edition of "Special Assignment," on CNN at 9 P.M., takes apart the record of the Agency for International Development. If Mark Feldstein's report is reasonably accurate, the agency, which distributes food, medicine and other help to the needy around the world, has been bilked by its own officials and employees. Gene Richardson, its assistant inspector general for investigations, says: "Our crime rate is essentially higher than virtually every other agency in the Government."
Contractors have squeezed kickbacks out of programs to help feed Pakistan's poor. A deputy director went to prison for accepting nearly $100,000 in payoffs for awarding contracts to Honduras. Three scientists who were supposed to use aid money to find a cure for malaria, that world-class killer, instead made killings of their own. And there's more. 
 Ronald W. Roskens, administrator of the agency, insists that it is "unbefitting" to apply the word "crooks," used by Mr. Feldstein, to even "a very few people, comparatively, at high levels."
Viewers of "A.I.D.: Under Investigation" may not be much reassured by that vocabulary lesson amid the hour's array of scandals. Instead of sending dry-cleaning fluid to Zimbabwe, a contractor sent toxic waste. Starving Sudanese, who were supposed to receive tons of powdered milk, got animal feed instead. Peruvian children were killed by tainted medicine supplied by the agency. After 13 years of construction and $75 million in aid, a low-income housing project near Cairo is still far from developed.
The successes of the Agency for International Development (there must be some) are not mentioned in this unsparing report, which will do nothing to improve the prospects for foreign aid in these hard times.
 
'The Great Nobel Debate'
Channel 13
Tonight at 9
The main revelation of "The Great Nobel Debate" is that Nobel Prize winners have nothing particularly original to say about puffy questions like "Is mankind on balance harnessing its intelligence to build a better world?" That was the balloon floated before a sizable group of laureates by David Frost a few weeks ago as part of the 90th-anniversary celebration of the Nobel Prizes in Stockholm. You can see how they handled it tonight on Channel 13.
It is an hour of familiar lamentations, bromides and inspirational tags. Archbishop Desmond Tutu, taking the affirmative position, says he puts his faith in freedom and science. Prof. Henry Kendall, a physicist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, accentuates the negative with references to global warming, the destruction of rain forests, water problems and overpopulation.
Everyone sounds intelligent, but the high-mindedness of the occasion evidently kept minds at the idle. Prof. Milton Friedman, the Stanford University economist, sees hope in the collapse of Communism; Octavio Paz puts in a plug for poetry, and Nadine Gordimer, the most recent winner for literature, proposes a marriage of the gods of science and spirituality.
All these worthies are on their best behavior. The closest attempt at a joke comes late, from Dr. Howard Temin, who won the prize for physiology and medicine in 1975. Drawing attention to the AIDS epidemic, he says, "We must return to love but remind everyone that if you love, use a condom." At the end, Mr. Frost asks for a show of hands on mankind's prospects. If you stay with the program that long, you'll learn the result.
 
'Made in New York'
Channel 2
Tonight at 9
"Made in New York" is an hourlong promotion for New York City's movie industry. Agreeable as it is to watch an upbeat program about a beaten-down town, the constant plugs delivered by Ron Silver, playing the host, make for a nonstop commercial. The liveliest scenes are of the movie director Sidney Lumet organizing the crash of a taxicab into a 47th Street jewelry store. (It actually takes place in a Queens studio.) Spike Lee, Paul Mazursky and other movie and television makers contribute to the New York boosterism. There's even a segment on Gary David Goldberg, who created the television series "Brooklyn Bridge," which of course is all about New York and is produced in Hollywood.
 
Special Assignment
 
Mark Feldstein, reporter; Amos Gelb, producer; Pamela Hill, executive producer. Sunday night at 9 on CNN.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: A.I.D.: UNDER INVESTIGATION (TV PROGRAM); MADE IN NEW YORK (TV PROGRAM); GREAT NOBEL DEBATE, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SWEDEN (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK ; CBS INC; WNET (TV STATION) (NYC) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (61%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (92%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK ; CBS INC; WNET (TV STATION) (NYC) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (92%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SWEDEN (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; FOREIGN AID; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; NOBEL PRIZES; MOTION PICTURES TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); STARVATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); BRIBERY (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (75%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEFORESTATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); RAIN FORESTS (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); MALARIA (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); RELIGION (62%); POETRY (61%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



918 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 28; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants

BYLINE: By Bryan Miller

 BODY:
Defying all odds -- and, some might say, common sense in this recession -- the Essex House has unveiled not one but two lavish restaurants: Les Celebrites, an art-festooned, $65-a-person dining room, and Cafe Botanica, a breezier yet ambitious spot in the splendid renovated lobby.
Two years in the making as part of a hotel renovation, Les Celebrites is surprisingly small, with only 14 tables, yet unabashedly opulent: giant gilded columns and ceiling moldings, thickly upholstered rugs and crescent-shaped banquettes, dark mahogany walls, thick red carpets, softly strategic lighting. The tables for 54 guests are set with Bernardaud Limoges plates, Christofle silver and glittering crystal. Nice touches, but unnecessary really, for the food of Christian Delouvrier, the chef, would be heavenly on paper plates. 
 The restaurant's leitmotif is paintings by celebrities; thus you are treated to the brushworks of Phyllis Diller, Gene Hackman, Van Johnson, Billy Dee Williams, Peggy Lee, Tennessee Williams, James Dean and more. These amateur landscapes and still lifes, dramatically illuminated against dark walls, are startling in such a formal setting. Yet with time -- say, between the cocktail and the appetizer -- they withdraw and become benign splashes of color.
Mr. Delouvrier, who garnered three stars in late 1986 at Maurice in the Hotel Parker Meridien in Manhattan, prepared for his current post by traveling extensively in Asia courtesy of his Japanese employers, Nikko Hotels International. His menu displays a Zenlike harmony of East and West that is a joy to experience. An example is the pristine tart of raw tuna and chives with a hint of sesame oil, surrounded by tomato emulsion holding nickel-sized rounds of red, yellow and green peppers. Something as simple as giant sea scallops served on a shell with dill and minced gravlax is memorable, too. A colorful palette of baby vegetables is bathed in good olive oil and strewn with minced truffles. Great, yes? Not without a unifying touch of salt and other seasonings lamentably.
Not everything is so light and pure. You can also get seductive cabbage rolls filled with foie gras and truffles set in a pond of excellent chicken broth. Then there is the winsomely named burger of foie gras. It is essentially a hot foie gras in a bun of sweet green apples, a harmonious marriage that poses no immediate threat to McDonald's.
The dining room runs with the precision of the Rockettes. No sooner have you swallowed the last morsel of your roll than a new one appears. Glasses must be the purview of a short-distance sprinter, for as an empty glass hits the table a hand is on its stem to remove it. Les Celebrites' wine list is appropriately comprehensive for a restaurant of this caliber, especially among California and French labels. Prices are lower than average.
Chef Delouvrier's Eastern influence is best seen in main courses like the crisp-skinned salmon set over a delicious leek compote, with vinegar-sharpened sauce seasoned with a blend of Oriental spices. Red snapper is infused with flavor by braising it in a strong vegetable bouillon. Its supporting cast includes a ripe tomato confit, sauteed zucchini and grilled eggplant fragrant with anise. Black bass wears a French cap, served mariniere style (a light butter and mussel juice sauce) with boulangere potatoes that are sliced, layered with onions and baked. Lobster is lustrous, simply roasted and served with pan juices and well-seasoned couscous.
Game aficionados should head straight for the squab. It has a characteristic woodsy flavor -- the reason you order game in the first place -- and is served with splendid mashed potatoes and cabbage drizzled with white truffle oil. It is perhaps the most dynamic item on the menu. Honey-lacquered duck did not prompt such excitement, for the meat was on the dry side. Two classic dishes are done with great finesse: rack of lamb with white beans and mashed potatoes, and rotisserie-cooked chicken with its natural juices, a hillock of wild mushrooms and tasty potato skin fries.
A cleansing and tangy culmination of a meal here is the superb grapefruit sorbet. More indulgent is the apple dessert featuring a Lincoln Tunnel of sliced apples with bumper-to-bumper cubed caramelized apples underneath, all in a Calvados sauce. My other favorite was the tart of orange cream and candied orange rinds served with chocolate sorbet. Light, moist mango cake with a mango coulis is a close runner-up.
In an era when almost all new restaurants are scrambling to capture the $10.95 roast chicken market, it is heartening to see one restaurant go all out to achieve both excellence and unbridled luxury. Les Celebrites has already reached that plateau, and it has the potential to rise even further.
 
 Les Celebrites
***
155 West 58th Street, in the Essex House hotel, Manhattan, (212) 484-5113.
Atmosphere: Elegant, comfortable room featuring paintings by show-business celebrities.
Service: Excellent.
Recommended dishes: Tuna tart, sea scallops with diced gravlax, foie gras burger, cabbage rolls with truffles and foie gras, salmon with leek compote and Oriental spices, baked bass mariniere, braised red snapper with tomato confit, squab with cabbage and mashed potatoes, rack of lamb, rotisserie-cooked chicken with wild mushrooms, roast lobster with couscous, grapefruit sorbet, apples with Calvados, orange cream tart.
Wine: Wide-ranging list. Strong in California and French labels. Fair prices.
Price range: Tasting menu prix fixe $85; rotisserie tasting menu $65. Dinner a la carte: appetizers $12 to $22; main courses $25 to $32.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: Dinner: Tuesday to Thursday 6 to 10 P.M.; Friday and Saturday until 10:30 P.M.
Reservations: Suggested.
Wheelchair accessibility: Access through 59th Street entrance of Essex House hotel. Restrooms on same level.
 
Ratings:
 
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
 Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.
 The Times Restaurant Line offers capsule reviews by cuisine, price and location (in New York City and suburbs), published in the last 18 months. Touch-line telephones only: 1-900-988-0101 (75 cents a minute).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LES CELEBRITES (RESTAURANT) NIKKO HOTELS INTERNATIONAL-USA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LES CELEBRITES (RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); PAINTING (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (71%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN BILLY DEE WILLIAMS (69%); EUGENE ALDEN 'GENE' HACKMAN (56%); PHYLLIS DILLER (56%); PEGGY LEE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



919 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Obligation in Albany

 BODY:
Once again Albany is paralyzed, unable to close New York State's budget gap or even agree on a strategy for closing it. And once again the Republican Senate, led by Ralph Marino of Long Island, is the stumbling block. After nearly two months of fruitless negotiations, the Senate majority leader has an obligation to help forge a compromise.
The legislators will have to approve hundreds of millions of dollars in spending cuts -- the last thing they want as they approach re-election. Mr. Marino wants Medicaid and social services to take the bulk of the cuts, imposing disproportionate pain on the poor and unemployed. If Mr. Marino produced a humane plan for spending cuts, it would be worth considering. But he has not. 
 Gov. Mario Cuomo and the new Assembly Speaker, Saul Weprin of Queens, agree that escalating social programs must be scaled back, which would spread the pain more fairly and realistically.
The Governor and the Democratic Assembly have agreed on an approach to closing the $875 million gap in the fiscal year ending March 31. Although their plan includes some non-recurring revenues and unrealistically exempts school aid, it is a reasonable start. But Mr. Marino is holding out for a 15-month budget that closes this year's gap and next year's too -- a projected combined deficit approaching $5 billion.
The idea of a multi-year budget made sense when Mr. Cuomo first suggested it in November. But the Republican-controlled Senate balked, no doubt because a long-term solution would have let Mr. Cuomo run for President free of budget woes back home. Now the Senate wants the long-range budget, presumably because it would soften the impact of spending cuts in an election year.
But so late in the game, it seems impossible for all sides to agree on a 15-month strategy in time to prevent damage. Bond rating agencies warn that delay could lead them to lower the state's credit rating, hurting local governments and school districts as well as the state.
Dawdling in Albany has already disrupted negotiations over New York City's transit fare, which will have to go from $1.15 to a punishing $1.40 to close the Transit Authority's own budget gap unless the Legislature acts. Since lawmakers have yet to agree on how to help the T.A., the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board may again put off its vote on a fare increase. A protracted delay will cost the T.A. money and could hurt its credit rating.
Mr. Marino and the State Senate are meeting today, at Mr. Cuomo's request. They have a responsibility to agree to a fair gap-closing plan that minimizes the damage to New Yorkers, particularly those least able to tolerate a plunging economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (51%); MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); BONDS (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



920 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Don't Send Aid

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL; Anthony Lewis is on vacation.

 BODY:
Don't send aid, Russians in Moscow kept saying -- bring it. Bring it, manage it, guard it.
 That message was repeated to me over and over as the days of the Soviet Union came to an end. It was the plainest testimony to the destruction by Communism not just of the economy but of trust in almost everything connected with government and bureaucracy. 
 The suspicion blankets most of those now supposed to introduce and run this thing they tell the people will make life better -- business, free market, capitalism, whatever -- without ever explaining how it works. It covers most of the presidents of the republics, understandable enough since they were among the high priests of the god that failed.
The Communists who ruled for 74 years left behind a society where work just stops much of the day as citizens hunt to find sausage in the stores. Then they stand in the streets to barter a hunk of the sausage for stockings for their children.
Russians are not fool enough suddenly to trust bureaucratic survivors of that system when they announce they have a better one in mind and intend to run it.
The politicians of the republics will have to earn trust and it will take time. As for business, it seems to Russians that many of the people making money are former government and party hacks using their old contacts still in office and splitting the take. They are right.
But the republics are the hope of the future. With the death of the Soviet Union there is no political or ethical reason to withhold as much as the West can afford without stripping other poor nations of help.
Experienced Russian journalists told me they thought that the food threat had been deliberately exaggerated by the Gorbachev Government. On foreign food credits, Vitaly Korotich, the famous former editor of the magazine Ogonyok, said that since 1964 the U.S. had supplied $74 billion of food credit and that the net result had been to cover up the failure of the "planners" to get food from the soil to the table.
True, but my own eyes told me that as a result Muscovites and other urban victims of Communism live on the brink. The decision by the Bush Administration to move quickly with food and particularly medicine was wise and decent -- as long as it all is kept out of the hands of the Red Army and the bureaucrats.
But it's worth remembering that in the past year or so alone the U.S. has set aside more than $3.5 billion for food aid and credits that will probably turn out to be grants. Kremlin officials themselves acknowledge that scores of billions of dollars have been misspent or "disappeared." Other billions were hidden in foreign banks by the Soviet Government and Communist Party, including espionage funds. Accountability is necessary, for credibility's sake.
With all Western good will, foreign help will not do a great deal of good until the republics eliminate the planning ministries, the heart of Communist corruption and criminal mismanagement. They still make it economic serfdom for farmers to send food to the cities. They still keep factories busy producing parts for tanks that have no mission.
And as long as foreign business has to deal with ministries deciding every time what licenses will be given and how much profit can be sent home and the precise amount of bribes to be paid, the commonwealth will get only a small amount of the foreign investment it needs.
So the real decisions on how much foreign assistance the commonwealth will get depends on the commonwealth. But in addition to emergency aid and perhaps anti-disaster backing for the ruble, the West can provide something as important: people the republics need to learn how to live in the real world.
Auditors, bankers, business computer specialists, private farmers, money managers, business teachers are rare and exotic in the commonwealth. Setting up a "Business Peace Corps" would be useful aid from the U.S., as long as it is directly related to commonwealth private enterprise, not channeled through official bureaucracies.
Russians I met also argued for continuing American hands-on management, supervision and accountability. That's not servility to the U.S. or simply a compliment to it. It is a growing clarity of vision about the past, perhaps the greatest asset for any new nation, or a whole commonwealth of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ETHICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); RELIGION (69%); WRITERS (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); ESPIONAGE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



921 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Recognize the Power of the New Germany

BYLINE: By Michael Lind; Michael Lind is executive editor of The National Interest.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
With its decision to recognize Croatia and Slovenia on Jan. 15, Germany proved it is no longer an economic giant and a political dwarf. It succeeded in pressing the European Community to recognize the Yugoslav republics against the objections of the United States and the United Nations. This act symbolized the collision between the post-World War II global order and the emerging post-cold war European order. If the gap between European and world institutions is not to grow, Europe's greatest power should be made a permanent member of the directorate of the world's great powers: the U.N. Security Council.
The new Germany, like its predecessors, has proved that it is a revisionist power, intent on reshaping Europe. Germany's initiatives -- often opposed at first by France, Britain and the United States -- have helped bring about the reunification of Germany within NATO, the Soviet evacuation from Eastern Europe and the extinction of the Warsaw Pact. 
 German pressure also influenced European leaders at the summit meeting in Maastricht, the Netherlands, this month to agree to move toward the adoption of a single European currency as early as 1996 and to increase cooperation in foreign, security, immigration and crime policy. This strengthening of the community will almost certainly be followed by its enlargement in an effort to reduce the poverty and political turmoil Germany fears to its south and east.
The weight of the new Germany has also been felt in European defense. After the gulf war, when France called for a European defense entity independent of the U.S.-led NATO alliance, the U.S. sent an Under Secretary of State to Europe to chide the allies. But when Germany joined France in endorsing such a force in October, President Bush himself responded with an emotional outburst at the NATO summit meeting in Rome in November. He testily challenged the European allies to make it clear whether they wanted a continued American commitment or not.
Germany has recognized the independence of its World War II satellites, Croatia and Slovenia, knowing well that Serbians and perhaps others will claim this as proof of an emerging "fourth Reich." Although Germany was not quick to recognize former Soviet republics, it evidently has perceived that its interests in the Balkans go beyond revising European institutions, to revising European borders.
Can global revisionism be far behind? As the influence of Germany grows, its exclusion from the Security Council (along with the exclusion of Japan) appears even more anomalous. What is more, Germany should take a place, not as one of a number of European nations that would occupy the proposed rotating European Community seat, but as an equal of the U.S., Britain, France and, soon, Russia, the Soviet Union's successor.
During the gulf war, Germany claimed (on dubious grounds) that its Constitution prevented military participation in the multinational force. The Government of Helmut Kohl, with the opposition's support, promised constitutional revision to permit participation in U.N. efforts -- a pledge recently renewed by Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. This promise could lead to a historic deal, since council members argue that Germany, like Japan, cannot be a member so long as it cannot send troops to enforce council decisions.
President Bush has wisely, if sometimes reluctantly, allowed Germany to take the lead in reshaping Europe. Now America should take the lead in reshaping the United Nations by proposing permanent German membership on the Security Council. Britain and France, declining powers that fear being eclipsed by the new Germany, will not be enthusiastic. Russia may prefer the status quo. Only America has the confidence to support German membership.
American interest grows out of its commitment to the U.N. When the organization was designed, the Security Council was idealism's concession to realism: it reflected the actual distribution of power in the world and did not reward vanished glory. The council is not the House of Lords.
By sponsoring Germany as the sixth permanent member, the Americans can do more than give it an enlarged role in world affairs. This move can strengthen the rationale for America's commitment to the U.N. by making the council, already enhanced by the gulf war, even more influential. And it can show that the U.S., too, is a revisionist power, seeking friends among today's victors and not merely yesterday's.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); ROME, ITALY (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DESERT STORM (76%); IMMIGRATION (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991



922 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Indians' New Foe: Environmentalists

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOWAOC, Colo.

 BODY:
For centuries, Indian rights have routinely been superseded by more powerful interests: ranchers, miners, Federal and state governments have all claimed to know what is best for the Indian people.
Now the tribes here face a new foe: environmentalists. 
 The Ute Indians here in southwest Colorado recently won the right to desperately needed water and $60 million in Federal development money in a long-planned water diversion project from the Animas and La Plata rivers. The water, along with hundreds of new construction jobs, would be channeled to parched ranches, towns and reservations in Colorado and New Mexico.
But environmentalists have vowed to wage a court battle to stop the project, citing a peril to the endangered Colorado squawfish, a long, slender species that began dying when dams slowed the Colorado River's flow and caused water temperatures to fluctuate.
 
Escape From Poverty
 It is a battle that underscores the growing clashes between environmentalists, seeking to protect Western wilderness, and Indians, who also say they love the land, but who are struggling to improve their impoverished life.
"Environmentalists like to wrap themselves in Indian blankets when they can," said Charles Wilkinson, a law professor at the University of Colorado, who works with both groups. "And there is some natural alliance. But that alliance comes into collision in the face of such terrible poverty in Indian country."
Two Ute tribes live in this arid mountain region: the Mountain Utes and the Southern Utes. About 35 percent of the 3,000 Utes are unemployed, according to Federal statistics. But tribal leaders say unemployment is closer to 60 percent.
The Indians, who have scant job opportunities here, believe the project would breathe economic life into the region. They say many Indians would be hired for construction jobs on the project. And the water could be used to irrigate farm fields for crops, like alfalfa, that they could then market.
On the Mountain Ute reservation here, flimsy, weather-beaten houses, rickety trailers and dirt roads attest to the searing poverty of a tribe that once used their skills as horsemen to capture livestock and slaves, whom they sold to Spanish traders. In the 1860's the Utes -- for whom Utah is named -- signed treaties with the Federal Government relegating the tribe to reservations, which in many cases were taken back or diminished by the Government.
Judy Knight Frank, the Mountain Utes' leader, gazed across the vast, barren reservation, bereft of any hint of commerce save a cattle-crossing sign, and spoke of Indians' being forced to leave home for lack of work.
 
Squawfish vs. Indians
 "The environmentalists," she said, "tell us: 'Wait, this isn't the right project. There is something better for your people.' But they have yet to tell us what that better thing is."
She shrugged and shook her head. "For 100 years, we did not have running water on this reservation," she said. "Where were the environmentalists then? They weren't hollering about the terrible conditions for our children. But now, suddenly, the squawfish is so important. More important than the Indian people, apparently."
In large part, the resentment among many Indians toward environmentalists simply mirrors a sentiment across much of rural America. Indians who log timber in Montana, drive cattle in Nevada or mine for coal in Arizona do not greet environmental constraints, which translate to fewer jobs, any more warmly than their white counterparts who work the land.
"When you stop development, a lot of real people get hurt," said Daniel Israel, a lawyer for the Mountain Utes. "In the West, a lot of those people are going to be Indians."
In the Pacific Northwest, environmentalists and Indians have divided over the building of hatcheries for salmon. The Indians who fish for salmon support the hatcheries; the environmentalists oppose them, saying that artificial breeding saps the vitality of the species. On Utah land owned by the Mountain Utes, environmentalists have gone to court to reduce the number of cattle that Indians graze. In the Navajo Nation, centered in Arizona, where coal mines are the largest employers, Indians fear that environmental restrictions could affect jobs.
"Of course, we're concerned about Mother Earth," said DeWayne Beyal, a spokesman for the Navajo Nation. "But we're also concerned about Navajo families who need a paycheck."
Seeking to resolve differences and reach common ground, representatives of Indian tribes and environmentalists recently met in Washington. John Lear, head of the Center for Resource Management, a Salt Lake City group that acted as an intermediary at the conference, said possible conflicts would probably increase as the environmental movement grew and Indian tribes asserted their rights to promote business. "It's very important that these issues be addressed," he said.
Some environmentalists acknowledge that they had sometimes, rather arrogantly, presumed that Indian interests coincided with their own. Indians often look with suspicion upon environmentalists, who tend to be white, urban and relatively affluent.
"First, they stuck us out on these remote reservations, where it's almost impossible to make a living," said Ray Yowell, chief of the Western Shoshone tribe in Nevada, where some tribal members have been ordered to reduce cattle grazing for environmental reasons. "And then they restrict the land use. These environmentalists come out here from the cities and tell us how to care for the land."
In a political sense, the shifting views about protecting the wilderness reflect the changing demographics of the nation, particularly of the West. While rural areas are struggling, growth has been centered in urban areas, where people look upon the mountains and rivers for their beauty rather than the paychecks their resources produce.
Tourism has become perhaps the most important economic force in the West. Among the leaders in the fight against the water diversion project here in southwest Colorado, in fact, have been the kayak and raft operators. They fear that water diversion will lower river levels and shorten the rafting season. Ecologists cite an array of biological and environmental problems whenever water paths are diverted, and in this case they have pointed to troubles for at least two fish species.
 
Halting of Project
 The $600 million project has been halted before. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service stopped the project a year ago, citing possible danger to the squawfish and razorback suckers, another type of fish. The project was revised to the satisfaction of the Federal Government, and ground was broken last month.
But the Sierra Club has said it will fight the project on the grounds that the environmental impact statement, made several years ago, was out of date. "The history of water in the West is a history of changing the natural landscape for human and agricultural development," said Drew Caputo, a Denver lawyer for the Sierra Club. "The consequence has been harm for the environment."
Another lawyer for the Sierra Club, Lori Potter, contended that the project would bring "no economic benefit" to the Indians. She said the tribes lacked the conveyance machines necessary to draw the water to the reservations.
"And most of the construction work would be imported," she said.
Mr. Israel, the lawyer for the Mountain Utes, said the environmental battle carried overtones of class conflict. He said many of the most vocal environmentalists were prosperous newcomers drawn to the beauty of the region, but who did not depend on local jobs.
"Don't my clients have a right to live on the Western slope?" he asked, referring to the scenic western edge of the Continental Divide. "Or is it going to be only people in $1 million houses in Telluride?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ute Indians in the arid mountain region of southwestern Colorado recently won the right to desperately needed water as well as $60 million in Federal development money for water diversion from the Animas and La Plata rivers. But environmentalists plan a legal battle, citing a peril to endangered Colorado squawfish. The Animas River, above, as it flows past the town of Durango. "For 100 years, we did not have running water on this reservation," said Judy Knight Frank, the leader of the Mountain Utes. "Where were the environmentalists then?" Ms. Frank inspected a portion of the waterline with Bob Goffinett, a construction superintendent. (Photographs by Suzi Moore for The New York Times)
 
Map of Colorado showing locations of Mountain Ute Reservation and Southern Ute Reservation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (51%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DURANGO, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (51%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO; WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DURANGO, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; INDIANS, AMERICAN; ENVIRONMENT; WILDERNESS AREAS; FEDERAL AID (US); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SP ; COLORADO SQUAWFISH ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (86%); RIVERS (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); WILDERNESS (74%); MAMMALS (74%); HAY FARMING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



923 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Enrollment Is Up At Colleges Despite Recession

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
College enrollment in public and private institutions increased this fall despite the recession, a new survey shows.
The survey, which covers both four-year and two-year institutions, found that total enrollment outstripped the totals for 1990 in 12 of 15 states it monitored and that two-year colleges grew faster. 
 The survey was taken by the American Council on Education, a Washington association of 1,700 colleges and universities in most states and the District of Columbia that account for about 40 percent of the nation's college students.
The survey identifies two opposing forces a recession can exert on college enrollment: one tending to increase enrollment as students stay in school longer because jobs are scarce, and another tending to decrease it as financially strained institutions reduce aid to students.
 
Emphasis on Job Training
 Contributing to the quicker growth in enrollment for two-year community institutions was the return of people in the work force who want to bolster their job skills.
"When times are tough, and people are unemployed, they want to go back to school and change careers," said Jim Brady, chief of the New York Department of Education's Bureau of Postsecondary Statistical Service. "Two-year schools typically offer occupational education."
The survey did find that total enrollment declined in three states that were particularly hard hit by the recession: New York, which experienced a decline of less than 1 percent to 995,628 students, from 1,000,185 students; Connecticut, which saw a 2 percent decline to 160,425 students from 163,744 students, and Minnesota, where enrollment dipped nearly 1 percent to 221,480 from 223,454.
Enrollment in four-year institutions in five states also declined: New York dropped 1.77 percent to 724,418 from 737,482; Connecticut declined 1.69 percent to 119,980 from 122,045; Illinois was off 2.01 percent to 372,295 students from 379,932 students; Virginia declined 1.64 percent to 212,107 students from 215,648 students, and Minnesota declined 3.72 percent to 158,805 percent from 164,946. The enrollment in two-year colleges grew in all states but Connecticut, where it declined 3 percent to 39,965 students from 41,216.
 
Growth Expected to Continue
 The overall growth in college enrollment, which the survey said was expected to continue, came despite the recession, which some college administrators said had depressed enrollment. Demographic trends also worked against college enrollment in some places.
"For a couple of years," said Connie Zak of the Connecticut Board of Governors of Higher Education, "we filled the decreases of college-age kids with adults going into retraining programs or back to school. Now we have exhausted that pool."
Tuition, too, has increased in the past year in several places to offset the effects of the recession, and some institutions have adopted enrollment limits to accommodate faculties that have been reduced by recession-induced layoffs.
Although demographic factors and recession have hurt overall enrollment figures, they are not expected to have long-term effects on enrollment growth at least at public institutions in the forseeable future, the survey said.
The increase in the next two years is expected to come from a slight increase in the number of college age students, said other higher education officials. "All indications are that we will have a substantial growth in the school age population by 1996," said Rich Novak, director of the Center for Higher Education Policy and Finance at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. "However, an increasing number of institutions are placing caps on enrollment, which will be tough for some of the fastest growing states, such as California, Arizona and Florida."
The survey also found that several states expected increases of high school graduates in the next few years but had made few plans to expand colleges or build new ones to accommodate the increase. Those states, the survey indicated, include Texas, Florida and California.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Some States' Rolls Are Growing" shows percentage change in total college enrollment from the 1990-1991 school year to 1991-1992. (Source: American Coucil on Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION NEW YORK DEPARTMENT STORES DE PUERTO RICO (68%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; MINNESOTA; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ENROLLMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RECESSION (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (79%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (79%); TUITION FEES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



924 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: Brown Hopes One-Note Campaign Strikes a Responsive Chord

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H.

 BODY:
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California is a man of sometimes bewildering personal and political dimensions, but his current campaign for the Presidency is as one-dimensional as a straight line.
"Money," he says, "is the root of all political evil." 
 Mr. Brown, a Democrat who in 20 years in public life has raised and spent a full measure of political money, much of it on two earlier, unsuccessful Presidential races, is running this time as an insurgent candidate who will take no campaign gift larger than $100, one tenth the legal limit for donations from individuals. He promises that if he reaches the White House he will impose sharp limits on political spending, political advertising and the number of terms officials can serve.
"The aim of my campaign," he said in an interview recently, "is to take back America from the manipulative big-money interests and the beholden, self-preservationist politicians who those interests elect and keep in office."
To hear the applause that Mr. Brown gets at rallies, his message has considerable appeal with an electorate increasingly soured on the way politics is played in the United States, particularly the way huge campaign contributions flow to candidates from political action committees. But hardly anyone thinks Mr. Brown will succeed with his crusade -- even he has his doubts -- and there is some grousing within the Democratic hierarchy that his campaign is an ego trip that may tarnish the party's image in 1992 and hurt its chances of capturing the Presidency.
"This candidacy, this cause, will only work," Mr. Brown said, "if it sparks a grass-roots revolution and the people rise up, one by one, then by the thousands, then by the millions. A revolution is not an easy thing to pull off."
 
Prickly Reputation
A 'Moonbeam' On a Mission
 Thus far, Mr. Brown's revolution is mostly a one-man uprising. Some money is coming in and some volunteers are stepping forward. But "Jerry" Brown's cause, though it receives applause, is not yet considered a consuming Presidential campaign issue and so there is not yet any great rush to be at Mr. Brown's side as he storms the ramparts.
Beyond California, there is no state at this point where Mr. Brown can realistically expect to make a significant showing. And not even California is a sure thing since the former Governor recently pulled out of the United States Senate race there rather than risk defeat.
"I admit I have some problems to overcome," he said in an interview here as he pushed through another chilly day in the pre-primary snows of New Hampshire. "But I've got to try to turn this system around. Somebody's got to try. Our democracy has been the object of a hostile takeover. Government has become a Stop & Shop for every conceivable greedy and narrow interest. There are no new ideas and no real debate. We're down to a single political party: the incumbent party."
In speaking of "problems to overcome," Mr. Brown was referring not just to the difficulty of usurping an entrenched campaign financing system but also to his reputation as a prickly, unfocused and sometimes dreamy politician who acquired the sobriquet "Governor Moonbeam" during his tenure as Governor from 1975 to 1983. If he and his insurgency are to be taken seriously in the 1992 campaign, he concedes, he must put the "Moonbeam" reputation behind him.
Can he do it?
In mid-December, Mr. Brown shook up the first televised candidate debate with his blunt, finger-pointing attack on big-money interests and political action committees, overriding protestations from several candidates that they, too, were against PAC's. He startled and annoyed the other debaters, as well as the debate moderator and many of the millions of viewers, by brashly giving his "800" number for telephone contributions -- provided none exceeded $100.
Ronald H. Brown, the usually neutral national chairman of the Democratic Party, called the outburst "inappropriate."
Still, a picture of Brown and a sign with the "800" number has become the unofficial symbol of the Brown campaign and the 53-year-old former Governor's anti-establishment determination to mobilize the grass roots to overthrow what he believes to be an entrenched elite. The incident has also added to the controversy that seems to permanently surround Mr. Brown, his causes and the hard-edged way he presses them.
At times in his career, Mr. Brown has been a classically conventional politician, raising and spending money in the usual way and pushing the usual economic and social agenda of industrial development, new highways and schools and improved health and welfare programs.
But at other points, he has broken from the pack, getting well out in front -- too far out front, his critics say -- on such issues as using wind power to cut energy consumption on "Spaceship Earth," or making California a "place of dreams" by reducing air pollution, or conserving water supplies by modifying toilets to use three and a half gallons on each flush instead of the usual seven gallons.
Above all, he has always had the knack -- some say a weakness -- for jumping from one issue to another and for the unpredictable and the unconventional move or symbolic gesture: the barefoot choir at his first inauguration as Governor, the beat-up compact car that served as his executive limousine, the sabbatical in Japan to study Zen, the sackcloth trip to India to help Mother Teresa nurse the sick.
 
Political Epiphany
From PAC Fan To PAC Foe
 Most recently, he has undergone a political epiphany when it comes to campaign finance. As he explains it, as a willing, even eager, participant in the old political financing system in races for governor in 1974 and 1978, in Presidential campaigns in 1976 and 1980 and in a United States Senate campaign in California in 1982, he knows political money's corruptive force first hand.
"Just before I got into this Presidential race," he said, "I ran the California Democratic Party and helped raise more than $30 million for our candidates, and we still got beat. I asked, 'What's wrong?' And the answer came back, 'We didn't have enough money.' That's when I knew things had to change. Money is the problem, not the answer."
As Mr. Brown sees things, the political action committees of well-heeled special interests like banks, hospitals, arms manufacturers and labor unions have taken control of politics in the United States through huge contributions to candidates, first helping them get elected, then keeping them in office through further contributions. In return, Mr. Brown says, the recipients of the money do the governmental and legislative bidding of the special interests, ignoring the needs and desires of average voters.
"The truth is, the voters don't control anything," Mr. Brown tells his audiences. "They are manipulated. Candidates get this money and they use it to poll and then they produce political ads that fool people and speeches that are designed just to make the evening news. But there isn't any substance, no reality to what counts and is really needed. Political action committees now run America."
As he speaks, he rises on the balls of his feet and leans his long frame over the lectern, pointing hither and yon into the audience as if aiming his message at specific people. Sometimes the words and ideas tumble forth in such confused profusion that the "Moonbeam" label seems fully justified, as when he spoke at a rally recently of a "self-contained, quasi-autonomous reality."
Mr. Brown promises that if elected he will not only seek tighter limits on campaign contributions but will also push for limits on the number of terms elected officials can serve as well as limits on political advertising. He offers no details -- "they're evolving," he says -- but expects no problem achieving the limits once he reaches the White House because he assumes the revolution that puts him in office will also install a compliant Congress.
As for his governing agenda otherwise, Mr. Brown says he is working out its details, too, with special emphasis on economic, health and energy plans. He contends that the "greed" of special interest groups has bankrupted the country's economy, made its health care system one of the most inefficient and expensive in the world and left the nation too dependent on foreign energy supplies.
"We spend twice as much on energy as other advanced nations because the energy interests want it that way," he says in his speeches. "If we cut that, we'd have money to rebuild the nation's infastructure and that would mean more jobs for people. We don't have an efficient, reasonably priced health system because rich doctors and others pour money into Congressional races to keep things as they are. There's the corruption in the system."
 
Presidential Strategy
Small Staff On a Shoestring
 Mr. Brown ranks near the top in most early opinion polls. But the poll-takers say most voters have not yet begun to focus intently on the campaign and they credit his high standing mainly to high name recognition.
He was among the last candidates to jump into the race and thus far has only about a dozen paid staff members, most of them casually dressed men and women in their 20's who work out of an austere campaign headquarters in an office building in a slightly seedy part of Santa Monica, Calif. He says he is signing up scores of volunteers to work in the primary here, as well as in primaries and caucuses in other states, but few are in place thus far.
The campaign manager is Jodie Evans, an aide to Mr. Brown when he was Governor. A primary campaign adviser is Patrick H. Caddell, the political strategist who helped conceive the "outsider" insurgency that Jimmy Carter used to capture the Presidency in 1976.
"Jerry Brown's campaign is about a different kind of politics, not a different political style," Mr. Caddell said in an interview. "People say he's got a great message but that he's the wrong messenger, that he's tainted because he's been a part of the system he's now trying to get rid of. Well, Jerry is a man who believes in personal growth. He's always growing."
Paradoxically, but not unexpectedly, a main hurdle for the Brown campaign is money.
Through appeals on radio talk shows and in television interviews -- the candidate often holds up his "800" number sign, describing it as "an inelegant but honest appeal" -- the Brown campaign has managed to raise about $250,000 and has qualified for Federal matching money. But Mr. Brown will need much more than $500,000 to conduct a serious campaign.
John Deutsch is one of those willing to give.
Mr. Deutsch, an opera singer from Washington, ran into Mr. Brown the other day in the airport at Boston. The night before, he had seen the former Governor on television.
Reaching into his wallet, Mr. Deutsch pulled out a $20 bill and handed it to Mr. Brown.
"You're the only candidate in the whole field who has an original idea," he said. "I'm with you."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "EDMUND G. BROWN JR."
Born: April 7, 1938, in San Francisco.
Education: St. Ignatius Hign School, San Francisco; B.A. University of California at Berkley, 1961; J.D., YaleUniversity 1964.
Religion: Roman Catholic
Military Service: None
Marital Status: Single
Government Positions: California Secretary of State, 1971-1975; Governor of California, 1975-1983.
Other Major Positions: Law practice, 1965-1970; member of Los Angeles Community College Board of Trustees, 1969-1970; law practice, 1983-1991; chairman, California Democratic Party, 1989-91.
Current job: Full-time Presidential candidate
Hobbies: Reading, music, and travel
PRESIDENTIAL PROSPECTS
Strength: Anti-incumbency messege resonates with voters.
Weakness: Reputation as flighty and unfocused.
Strategy: Emphasize dangers of big political contributions by refusing to take more than $100, build momentum among grass-roots supporters.
 
Drawing: STRATEGIES: THE DEMOCRATS AND '92: EDMUND G. BROWN Jr.
"The aim of my campaign is to take back America from the manipulative big-money interests and the beholden, self-preservationist politicians who those interests elect and keep in office."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRIMARIES; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR JERRY BROWN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



925 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: A Visionary Of Disunion

BYLINE: By John McClaughry; John McClaughry, a Vermont state senator, is co-author with Frank Bryan of "The Vermont Papers."

DATELINE: KIRBY, Vt.

 BODY:
Secession and political disintegration have redrawn the map of Europe over the last few months. The Baltic states declared independence, Croatia and Slovenia have struggled to withdraw from Yugoslavia and a loose commonwealth has replaced the Soviet Union. There have even been independence movements within independence movements in areas like Abkhazia and South Ossetia in the ex-Soviet republic of Georgia.
Unnoticed amid this turmoil was the 50th anniversary of a remarkable essay that bravely declared the world would be better off if large states splintered into small pieces. 
 Disunion was an unpopular idea among internationalist Americans in 1941. Far more appealing was "union now" on a supranational scale. The threat of Adolf Hitler called for the power of unity, not fragmentation and weakness.
In this atmosphere, Commonweal magazine of Sept. 26, 1941, published an essay titled "Disunion Now: A Plea for a Society Based Upon Small Autonomous Units," by a Hans Kohr.
Its author was actually Leopold Kohr, a 31-year-old Austrian-born economist who used a pseudonym because he hoped readers would mistake the name for that of Dr. Hans Kohn, a well-known historian at City College of New York, and be more likely to read the article.
The essay began by rebutting the idea, as summarized by Mr. Kohr, that "The evils of our globe would be eliminated by simply doing away with the varieties of states through uniting -- the democracies now, the continents later, the world in the end."
Mr. Kohr argued that Switzerland, often cited as exemplifying the merits of unification, had thrived not because of national unity, but because of the smallness of its cells. "The great number of proud, democratic and almost sovereign cantons, and the small number of cantonal populations, eliminates all possible imperialist ambitions on the part of any one canton, because it would always be outnumbered by even a very small combination of others," he wrote.
In place of France, Germany, Russia and Italy, Mr. Kohr recommended 40 or 50 Venezias, Lombardies, Burgundies, Savoys and Estonias. "Then the Great Powers, which are the womb of all modern wars, because they alone are strong enough to give war its modern frightfulness, shall have disappeared," he wrote. "Once Europe is divided into small enough parcels, we shall have the Swiss foundation of a Pan European Union, based not on the collaboration of powerful nations but on the smallness of all the states."
Mr. Kohr argued that a new spirit among people who regain national independence would lead to peace, economic revival, a flowering of the arts and true participation all citizens in democratic government.
Alas, he was ignored. But today his theory of unity and peace through division looks more attractive.
It will be fascinating to see if the European Community hears appeals for political self-determination from its subnational regions (from Scotland, for example, to Brittany, Provence, Bavaria, Sicily and the Basque homeland, Euskadi) within the framework of its new economic institutions.
Mr. Kohr's vision was not utopian, and he anticipated micro-wars like those now happening in Croatia and Georgia. But these conflicts are minor compared with the those of 1941. And despite the uncertain future of the former Soviet Union, hostility among the republics is less dangerous to the world than the threat posed by their former empire.
Leopold Kohr, now 82 years old, remains largely unknown. His message never sat well with leading statesmen, most of whom were intoxicated with the grand and mighty.
But it has been instinctively rediscovered by people who have had enough of great empires ruled by faceless forces beyond their control. Fame has eluded him, yet few people have had his good fortune: to see the world at long last begin to unfold as he had hoped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); GEORGIA (88%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); GEORGIA (88%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SEPARATISM & SECESSION (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WRITERS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



926 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-6
 
ISLAMIC PARTY WINS IN ALGERIA
A party that advocates turning Algeria into an Islamic republic in the Iranian mold triumphed in the country's first free parliamentary elections, trouncing the party that has governed for 30 years. 1 

U.S. MUST LEAVE BASE, MANILA SAYS
After the collapse of months of negotiations, the Philippines told the United States that it must withdraw from Subic Bay Naval Base by the end of 1992. 1
 
YELTSIN FLEXES POWERS OF OFFICE
Boris N. Yeltsin flexed his powers as President of Russia, cutting the duties of his Vice President and moving into Mikhail S. Gorbachev's office without giving him a chance to clean it out first. 1
 
HAITIAN TALKS NEAR CRUCIAL POINT
Diplomats involved in negotiations for the return to power of Haiti's deposed President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, say the talks are nearing a critical juncture. 3
 
COVER-UP IN WALLENBERG CASE
The K.G.B. denied the Kremlin information about Raoul Wallenberg, the Swede who helped save the lives of thousands of Jews in World War II and then disappeared in Soviet captivity, documents show. 6
 
HOSTAGE'S BODY RELEASED TO U.S.
Remains identified as those of William Buckley, chief officer for the Central Intelligence Agency in Lebanon when he was taken hostage in 1984, were flown to the United States for burial. 3
 
EXTRADITION OF IRANIAN SOUGHT
French officials said they would ask for the extradition of an Iranian who was arrested in Switzerland on suspicion of involvement in the assassination of a former Iranian Prime Minister near Paris. 3
 
SALVADORAN LEADER TO JOIN TALKS
With time running out on what was expected to be the final round of peace talks to end El Salvador's 12-year-old civil war, President Alfredo Cristiani agreed to fly to New York to join the talks, diplomats said. 4
 
ROCK AND ROLL UBER ALLES
Dresden Journal: For thousands of young people in eastern Germany, the complexities of German unification are reduced to a single issue. They do not want to lose their favorite radio station. 4
 
YUGOSLAV WAR THREATENS BOSNIA
Riven by ethnic animosities, practically landlocked and dependent on imports of food, energy and raw materials, the Yugoslav republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is threatened with disaster. 6
 
Iceland is quitting the International Whaling Commission. 3
 
National 7-8, 26
 
KERREY WORKERS LACK BENEFITS
Bob Kerrey, whose call for a broad national health insurance plan is a centerpiece of his Presidential campaign, does not offer most of the workers in his restaurant chain health coverage through the company. He says the seeming inconsistency only validates his proposal. 1
 
BROWN'S LONELY REVOLUTION
"Money is the root of all political evil," says Edmund G. Brown Jr., and he sees his Presidential campaign as a call to revolution against big-money interests and the incumbents beholden to them. Few appear to be running to his side. 8
 
UTE INDIANS VS. FISH
Indian rights have long been superseded by more powerful interests, and now they face a new foe: environmentalists, who say the Ute Indians' plan to relieve their crushing poverty might harm an endangered fish. 7
 
NO MOVE ON KENNEDY FILES
A Congressman who headed an inquiry into the Kennedy assassination says there is no reason to open sealed files on the case, despite questions raised by Oliver Stone's film "J.F.K." 7
 
PROPOSITION 13 REVERBERATES
Officials around California are scrambling to cut costs and replace sources of income shut off by a state Supreme Court ruling last week. 26
 
Relief swept southeast Texas as floodwaters crested. 26
 
College enrollment rose despite the recession. 7
 
Metropolitan Digest, 21
 
SHIFT IN HEATING GRANTS
The Dinkins administration has quietly cut off the flow of Federal funds for heating subsidies to several Jewish and Irish community centers in Brooklyn and Queens, arguing that not enough of the money was going to black and Hispanic residents. 1
 
NO TOKEN VOTE YET
Transit officials yesterday postponed for the second time in a week the critical vote on raising New York City's subway and bus fare in a display of budget brinkmanship. 1
 
Neediest Cases 23
 
Business Digest 33
 
Sports 28-32
 
Baseball: Nederlander's resignation complicates Steinbrenner's attempted return. 29
 
Basketball: Knicks brush off a bad loss. 31
 
Nets beat Charlotte, 136-120. 31
 
St. John's and Memphis State advance in Holiday Festival. 31
 
Column: Berkow on Gorbachev and Steinbrenner 29
 
Football: More changes in N.F.L. coaching ranks. 29
 
Play-faking is an N.F.L. craft. 29
 
Hector savors fresher memories. 30
 
Blockbuster Bowl's future may be more compelling than the game. 32
 
Hockey: Big comeback puts Rangers in tie for first. 31
 
Penguins use all angles in 12-1 rout. 31
 
Outdoors: The beauty of barricudas. 32
 
Sports People 32
 
Television: CBS dismisses Buck from baseball broadcasts. 32
 
Obituaries 27
 
Chester V. Clifton Jr., military aide to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson.
 
Consumer's World 48
 
Seeking real gains despite low yields.
 
Help with the VCR's many buttons.
 
CD sound in pocket-size recorders.
 
If the deal's too good, check the store.
 
Guidepost
 
Arts/Entertainment 9-15
 
Japan restores old temple gods. 9
 
Film: Canadian animation festival. 9
 
Music: P. D. Q. Bach is back. 9
 
Classical Music in Review 15
 
Lloyd Cole, songwriter, sings. 13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials 18
 
A wily ploy in Geneva.
 
Reassuring North Korea.
 
Democracy and City Council.
 
Letters 18
 
Charles Piller: A healthy fear of technocrats. 19
 
C. Fred Bergsten: Taming Japan's trade surplus. 19
 
John McClaughry: A visionary of delusion. 19
 
Lucy N. Friedman: Cost-effective compassion. 19
 
Tomoharu Washio: Of thee I sang. 19

GRAPHIC: Photo: Texas copes with continuing flooding. 26 (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GERMANY (92%); HAITI (92%); FRANCE (79%); ICELAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GERMANY (92%); HAITI (92%); FRANCE (79%); ICELAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); EXTRADITION (71%); NAVIES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); POP & ROCK (62%); WHALING (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



927 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Stock Prices Set Records
With interest rates at rock bottom, stock indexes set records. The Dow Jones industrial average, closed at 3,101.52, up 18.56 points. Page 33.
 
 
Housing for the Affluent

 
Despite laws to help the poor, Government housing auctions have generally benefitted the affluent. Page 33.
 
 
Trade Targets: Beer, Tools

 
The United States said it would set duties on Canadian beer and extend machine tool import limits. Page 33.
 
 
Indians vs. Fish Lovers

To save a rare fish, environmentalists want to block a plan by the Ute Indians to improve their lot. Page 7.
 
 
Steinbrenner's Hurdles

 
George Steinbrenner faces several obstacles in his bid to regain control of the Yankees. Page 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); AUCTIONS (88%); MACHINE TOOLS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); IMPORT CONTROLS (85%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (85%); IMPORT TRADE (84%); FISHES (83%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE STEINBRENNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



928 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 18.56 to End Above 3,100

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
Stocks climbed to record levels yesterday for the second consecutive day, again propelled by lower interest rates and hopes for the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average vaulted past another barrier, closing above 3,100 for the first time. It ended at 3,101.52, up 18.56 points for the day and 167.04 for the four-day week, its biggest weekly point gain ever. 
 Records were also set again for the Nasdaq composite index, up 6.41, to 565.71, and for the Standard & Poors' 500 index, up 1.62, to 406.46. The Big Board composite index rose 1.14 points, to 223.75, another record. The American Stock Exchange index went up 5.42 points, to 382.94.
 
 
The Interest-Rate Factor
 Optimism for an economic recovery may have fed the rally, but brokers and analysts put more emphasis on the way bottom-of-the-barrel interest rates are making stocks a more attractive alternative to investors both big and small.
"New accounts are coming in from sticker shock at the bank," said Thomas Johnson, a retail broker with Dean Witter who has been gathering fresh customers in Indianapolis. "With interest rates the way they are, there's simply not a better place to put your money."
As fixed-income yields continue to decline, other brokers added, investors are increasingly moving into equity mutual funds, causing fund managers to go out and buy stocks.
"This is like a fast freight train," said Ricky Harrington, director of equity investments at Marion Bass Securities in Charlotte, N.C. "You just can't get in its way."
 
 
Expecting a January Spurt
 Although institutional investors were already in the market, they put extra funds into stocks this week partly in anticipation of a January spurt, said Elaine Garzarelli, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, citing big January advances in 3 of the last 10 years.
"People can get fired for missing that rally," Ms. Garzarelli said. She added that last week's slashing of short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve had the effect of spurring investors who had hesitated.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange was moderate yesterday, at 158.3 million shares, but heavier than usual for Christmas week. Issues that rose outnumbered those that lost by 1,085 to 609.
The week's gain for the Dow Jones industrial average surpassed the previous record of 145.29 for the trading week that ended on Jan. 18, when war broke out with Iraq. But that week's advance, to 2,646.78, amounted to 5.8 percent, making it larger than the 5.7 percent for this week.
 Ms. Garzarelli's calculations, based on four ingredients -- the economy, monetary policy, market valuation and sentiment -- has led her to predict further gains for at least two months. She estimates that 70 to 80 percent of analysts have to be bullish before a market peaks; she puts the current figure at about 50 percent.
For Jon Fossel, chief executive of the Oppenheimer Management Corporation, there are still plenty of reasons to be upbeat about the market over the coming year, including a combination of low inflation and low interest rates.
"Semi-intelligent people always make the same mistake," Mr. Fossel said. "They're extremely bullish at the top of the market and extremely bearish at the bottom." He quickly added that despite record highs, he did not think the Dow had peaked, predicting that it would reach 3,600 by the end of 1992.
 
 
'Can't Argue With It'
 Mr. Harrington, in Charlotte, is not so optimistic about the long-term strength of the market's move upward.
"Buying simply because the market is going up is not a good idea," Mr. Harrington said. "But this short-term rally is extremely explosive. You can't argue with it."
Another part of the rally, in Mr. Harrington's view, is institutional end-of-the-year window dressing. "They want to show that they have the winning stocks in their portfolio," he said.
I.B.M. and Merck, both market bellwethers, were up yesterday. I.B.M. rose 1 1/8, to 89 3/8, while Merck climbed 1 1/4, to 165 3/8. Morgan Stanley jumped 3 3/4, to 61, reflecting growth in the investment banking sector.
 Among losers, First Financial Management dropped 4 3/8, to 39, after the information-services firm restated its earnings for the first nine months of the year, cutting earnings for that period by 19 cents a share.
Tiffany & Company fell 1 1/2, to 43. The company reported late Thursday that its United States retail sales for the period of Nov. 1 to Dec. 25 were down 3 percent from last year's.
In over-the-counter trading, Mitsui rose 9 7/8, to 117 5/8. The Xoma Corporation , the medical and biotechnology concern, rose 2 5/8, to 22 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Dow's Biggest Weekly Point Change" shows weekly point changes of the Dow Jones industrial average in 1991. (Source: Datastream) (pg. 37)
 
Chart: "Dow Milestownes" shows when the Dow industrials first closed above certain levels. (pg. 37)
 
Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE NYSE MKT LLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; OVER-THE-COUNTER TRADING; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); TRAINS (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR ELAINE MARIE GARZARELLI (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



929 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: For Workers, a Winter Lull

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Everything about work the last couple of days has been all wrong. Noah Rosenblum, an engineer at J. P. Morgan & Co. on Wall Street, noticed it. The phones rang less. He found a seat during his coffee break.
His co-worker Patrick McAleer said he felt it, too. A lot of people had brought their kids to work. "The funny thing," he said, sitting with Mr. Rosenblum yesterday in the atrium of the J. P. Morgan Building, lushly decorated for the holidays, "is that they're off for a day and they bring their family into the office." 
 With Christmas and New Year's Day falling in the middle of the last two weeks of the year, offices throughout the New York metropolitan region have drifted through the last two days in a sort of a holiday Twilight Zone.
 
An Outer-Office Experience
 "After Christmas, it's an interregnum," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner in New York City for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The old king is gone and the new one has not yet come. It's close-out time. The pace of activity begins to wind down, and it stays wound down until after the New Year."
While few offices have actually closed, few have had more than skeletal staffs. All but the most essential employees sawthis week and next as the perfect opportunity to stretch the two midweek holidays into a vacation -- what Irwin Kellner, the chief economist for Manufacturers Hanover Trust, called "white-collar holidays."
And yet those who did work found the office vacuum a vacation in itself. The commute has been a breeze, the office mood casual, almost festive. And while it has been nearly impossible to get anyone on the phone, some said it was the best time of the year to actually get some work done.
"You can accomplish more now, because there's not so many people harassing you," said Mr. Rosenblum, who said his office was in a "California state of mind."
Delos R. Smith, the senior business analyst for the Conference Board, a economic research organization in Manhattan, said "very little gets done" during these half-holidays, half-workdays.
"I'm not even bothering to make phone calls," he said. "Nobody's returning them."
Making the best of it, Mr. Smith took half the day off so he could take his wife and daughter to the movies. "At 1:30, goodbye," he said.
In Somers, N.Y., at the world headquarters of Pepsico Inc., a spokesman, Gary Gedermann, said a few workers had to be on hand "just in case Coke changes their formula again or something."
Mr. Gedermann said he believed the semiholidays gain momentum in a sort of ripple effect.
"Everyone figures, 'No one else is in, so I'm not going to go in,' " he said. "The assumption cascades and becomes a reality."
Jeanette Sivak went to work yesterday at the St. Andrews Textile Company at 135 West 50th Street in Manhattan, but wearing a "Guess University" sweatshirt and towing a 6-year-old "helper," her son Matthew.
 
Not Much Work
 The import company had virtually no business, so Ms. Sivak, a computer operator, spent the day with 8 of the company's 27 employees doing such things as sorting out "the things I've thrown in the drawer for the last year."
The office's casual mood aside, she said, "Every time I wake up at 7:30, it feels like a workday."
In some cases, the boss's absence alone was enough to make the week feel like a holiday.
"Both of my bosses are out -- one officially, one sick," said Jonathan Feinberg, a computer programming analyst at Columbia House in midtown Manhattan. "This is when I get all my computer-game-playing in."
Larry Cooperman, a case administrator at the American Arbitration Association, also in midtown, found another benefit. His commute on Long Island Rail Road this week has been something it very rarely is: a pleasure. "I wish I had a camcorder," he said. "All the seats were empty."
 
Professionals' Holiday
 Many of those who took off were professionals -- lawyers, accountants and advertisers. They could stay home anticipating a year-end slowdown, but others could not. Retail stores, restaurants, hotels, theaters and other businesses that cater to those on vacation were as busy as ever.
"I'm just grateful I'm working," said Michel Silva, a lobby receptionist in the Worldwide Plaza office tower on Eighth Avenue at 49th Street.
Raju Sewani waited all day in his gift store and newsstand in the same building for a mere trickle of customers. The tower is usually bustling with workers from Microsoft, the Polygram record company, and the advertising agencies N .W. Ayer Inc. and Olgilvy & Mather.
 
'Bad for Business'
 "The building told me 75 percent of the people who work here are off," said Mr. Sewani, who opened the shop just four months ago. "This whole week it's like this. It's bad for business."
Glenn Weiner, an actor, was working, too. Painted silver and wearing only a Speedo swimsuit and Nike sneakers, he walked along 49th Street in the Theater District, filming scenes for a multimedia production called "Power of Dreams."
Mr. Weiner, who was obviously cold, disrupted traffic as he posed with a large wooden heart smudged with dirt. "It's a man carrying his heart, with crud on it," explained David Niles, the director.
With opening night planned for January, Mr. Niles said, "We're working straight through."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); PEP (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (60%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); PEPSICO INC (60%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHRISTMAS; NEW YEAR; PRODUCTIVITY CHRISTMAS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



930 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Stocks reached record levels for a second straight day, again propelled by lower interest rates and hopes for the economy. The Dow industrials vaulted past another barrier, closing above 3,100 for the first time. It ended at 3,101.52, up 18.56 for the day and 167.04 for the week, its biggest weekly point gain ever. [Page 33.] 
 Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in extremely slow trading. [36.]
The dollar weakened further against the yen but gained against leading European currencies, helped somewhat by political tensions in the former Soviet republics. [42.]
Oil futures prices rose in thin trading after an industry report showed an unexpected drop in U.S. crude oil stocks. [42.]
 
Companies
Crop Genetics and Du Pont formed an alliance to develop naturally occurring insect viruses into pesticides. Du Pont will provide Crop Genetics with up to $3.7 million over two years to develop virus products and mass-produce them at low cost. [33.]
Bombardier of Canada has a knack for getting innovative technology cheaply and turning it into gold. That strategy has worked particularly well in aeronautics and military products, and now it is returning to its earlier business, ground transport. [33.]
British Petroleum agreed to pay $185 million to settle a 14-year-old lawsuit accusing it of cheating Alaska out of North Slope oil royalties. [35.]
 
The Economy
To make sure some lower-priced homes seized in the S.&L. debacle are sold to low-income families, Congress has written new laws. But so far many of the properties have gone instead to buyers with higher incomes, large corporations like G.E., or rich real estate developers. But it is not at all clear that the program will work under the new laws any better than under the old. [33.]
In a fast-growing scam involving advance fees for loans from unregulated companies, hundreds of thousands of consumers and small businesses are being swindled. Senator Lieberman of Connecticut has proposed that Congress outlaw advance fees for consumer and small-business loans offered by unregulated companies. [34.]
 
International
The Bush Administration plans to impose duties on Canadian beer to retaliate against Canada's restrictions on sales of American beer, it said. And it said it would extend some restrictions on imports of tools used to make machinery, including military equipment. [33.]
Japan said it might reduce auto exports to the U.S. as a way to answer President Bush's demands for more trade fairness, but such a move is expected to have little effect because of the rise of Japanese assembly plants in the U.S. [34.]
Soviet economic collapse will cut internal oil demand, experts say, leaving a margin for Russian exports, a key factor in the world's balance between supply and demand. For two years experts have feared that the strife in the Soviet Union, the world's largest oil producer, would turn that country from an exporter to an importer, increasing the power of Middle East suppliers and forcing up prices around the globe. [35.]
 
Today's Columns
The I.R.S. is pressing efforts to make it easier for taxpayers to file returns -- at least simple ones. In Ohio some people will even be able to file by telephone. Robert D. Hershey Jr.: Your Taxes. [34.]
A new genetically engineered receptor blocker being tested on humans to treat about a half-dozen major illnesses has been patented by researchers at the University of Colorado and at Synergen. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); BBD.A (TSX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (57%); BOMBARDIER INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); ROYALTIES (75%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAMILY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (70%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (70%); POLITICS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (69%); PESTICIDES (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (68%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (67%); BEER & ALE (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (60%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



931 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
All of New York's Tumult Jammed Into a Terminal

BYLINE: By Joseph Berger

 BODY:
PEOPLE have been born and people have died at Grand Central Terminal and about two years ago someone's remains even wound up there.
An urn of ashes was turned in to the Lost and Found/Parcel room and deposited among the umbrellas, wallets and other commodities forsaken by some of the 100,000 commuters on the 550 trains that stream daily into the 50 platforms of the nation's largest railroad terminal. 
 "To find out you're going to end up at the Lost and Found at Grand Central among the unclaimed raincoats and pocketbooks full of condoms," laments Jimmy Scullin, who seems to have seen everything life has to dish up during his 10 years staffing the room. "God is mad at that person."
Grand Central is often called a city within the city, but it is more an emblem of New York itself, of its bustle and throb, of its yearnings and sorrows. The commanding image in its cathedral-like void is the flicker of bodies rushing -- to catch trains, to get to work, to take a crosstown shortcut. Scattered among these sober intentions are people with more modest ambitions, who have wound up in Grand Central only because it is warm and dry.
Yet, both the prosperous and the hapless seem equally dwarfed by the immensity of Grand Central's dusky sheltering vault.
As in the larger city, you can buy stamps at Grand Central's post office, make a call at one of 253 pay telephones, get your shoes heeled and soled in 12 minutes at Minas Polychronakis's shop, play tennis for $75 an hour on two courts nestled above the zodiac ceiling, or eat a gourmet meal at the Oyster Bar. Grand Central, built in 1913, was perhaps the nation's first shopping mall.
"Convenience," explains Gregg Randell of Grand Central Optical. "In the suburbs, you leave for work before the stores are open and come home after they've closed."
Grand Central has its own 140-strong police force and its own jail cell, a miniature hospital staffed by a full-time doctor, a volunteer fire brigade of 37, and two social agencies that minister to the homeless.
"We get the same crimes as in the street," said Capt. Anthony Ashby, the police commander. "The difference is you don't get as many domestic disputes."
Last week, there was an art exhibit -- photos of decaying Lower East Side synagogues -- and a concert -- by the Metro-North Employee Choir. The choir's "Silent Night," resounding through a nave that can enclose Paris's Notre Dame, was evoked with such solemn tenderness that commuters actually paused in mid-canter.
Several years ago, a couple were married on a terminal balcony, right there overlooking the whirring of the arrival-and-departure board and the concourse's four-sided brass clock (one of 350 terminal timepieces).
"Maybe that's where they met," said Fred Palmer, the terminal's superintendent.
Mr. Palmer, a cheery accountant who descends from two generations of railroad men, calls Grand Central "the greatest space enclosed by the 20th century." If that sounds a bit grand, it is perfectly in keeping with a place called Grand Central. Indeed, a terminal holding up the weight of several skyscrapers inspires all sorts of cosmic conclusions.
Jim Morrisey will tell you how a thinning in the hordes passing his locksmith stand presaged the current recession. Dennis Macklin, a homeless California cartoonist who has done comparison panhandling at Grand Central and Port Authority Bus Terminal, has determined that "the East Side is more compassionate than the West Side."
But no one seems to have a better handle on the foibles of human existence than Mr. Scullin, impresario of the lost and found room. He is still astonished by the things people will leave behind.
With more than 600 items found monthly by train workers, there are separate cardboard boxes for books, keycases, cameras, scarves, pairs of gloves, single gloves, eyeglasses in a case, eyeglasses out of a case. There are shelves of attache cases, suitcases, and, during the Christmas season, shopping bags filled with gaily wrapped presents. The office has latched onto an artificial leg, a stereo amplifier and $2,500 worth of wedding pictures.
The job has taught Mr. Scullin to keep his glasses perched on his skull when he does not wear them. But the work also has its frustrations. Too many customers contemptuously bark at him to produce their Burberrys, blaming "railroad employees" for their own sometimes Freudian slips.
"Successful people can't deal with the fact they've screwed up," he says. To identify owners, Mr. Scullin must examine contents. And sifting through attache cases holding onerous mortgage payments, pictures of children and hospital bills, he glimpses the struggles and Cheeveresque desperation of many commuter lives. He understands why so many people in the terminal are always rushing.
A search of one case, belonging to what Mr. Scullin says was a "six-figure guy from Scarsdale" revealed a compartment containing the paraphernalia of a lush sexual imagination, including a whip and a garter belt. To retrieve the case, the owner sent a messenger with a letter of authorization.
"He didn't want to show his face," Mr. Scullin says.
But that would be fitting. Grand Central should be just as vigilant in safeguarding anonymity as the city it mirrors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Scullin seems to have seen everything life has to offer during his 10 years staffing the Lost and Found room at Grand Central Terminal. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC) RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); SUBURBS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (65%); RETAILERS (63%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



932 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Weak Russian Economy May Use Less Oil

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Experts once feared that the Soviet Union would stop exporting oil because of declining production, but now many think that economic collapse will cut internal demand as fast or faster, leaving a margin for Russian exports, a crucial factor in the world's balance between supply and demand.
For two years experts have feared that the strife in the Soviet Union, the world's largest oil producer, would turn that country from an exporter to an importer, increasing the power of Middle East suppliers and forcing up prices around the globe. But now some experts argue that an unprecedented economic decline may push down demand in the new Commonwealth of Independent States even more than supply falls. 
 In addition, they say, the post-Communist economy, no matter what its size, seems likely to use less energy for each unit of economic output.
 
Output Going Down
 Soviet oil production slipped slightly in the last few years, and gross national product, which declined 4 percent in 1990, has fallen 12 percent or more this year, experts say. But more drastic changes are ahead, especially in the parts of the economy that use large amounts of energy.
Thane Gustafson, who is currently on leave from Georgetown University, where he is director of the Soviet studies program, says the former Soviet Union "is on a track that could see its G.N.P. fall on the order of 50 percent over the period 1989 to 1995." That would reduce energy demand about 30 percent, or 10 million barrels a day, he said, although some of the lost demand would be for natural gas and coal.
Dr. Gustafson, who returned earlier this week from visiting the oilfields of western Siberia, wrote a recent book on Soviet energy policy, and is now with Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an influential consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. He wrote in a report sent to clients this week that "the economic consequences of such a slump could be a major export onslaught of Soviet commodities, including energy."
Oil producers have a special incentive to export, he said in a telephone interview, because the internal price is only about 65 cents a ton. A ton, the traditional Soviet measure of oil, is about 7.3 barrels, so at the current world price of about $18 a barrel, one barrel exported brings as much revenue as 200 barrels sold internally.
Product exports might also increase, he said, as the internal economy declines. For example, he said, Aeroflot, the airline, "had been run as a kind of Greyhound of the people." But if it had to raise fares to market levels, he said, its flights would be cut 90 percent, and the unused jet fuel would be sold.
Over all, Dr. Gustafson predicts, exports will decline but not disappear, partly because oil is one of the few commodities that could provide the capital the country so desperately needs. Several refineries have found new markets in the West and new transportation routes for their products, he said, and have shown great creativity in arranging exports to earn hard currency.
 
No Quick Turnaround Seen
 Another consulting firm, the Petroleum Industry Research Associates, predicts the G.N.P. will decline 35 percent from 1990 to 1995, before the economy begins to grow again. Oil exports will be steady or may even increase, Gary N. Ross, president of the firm, said. His group, which is based in New York and has clients in 15 countries, predicted that oil use would fall two million barrels a day -- an amount equivalent to production from Alaska's North Slope -- before bottoming out in the middle of this decade.
Exports will be roughly flat for the next few years, "with modest growth after 1995, but with probably more upside potential than downside," his group's report said, adding that it was "a frustrating profile for OPEC after the last two years' declines."
At the United States Department of Energy, Lee Schipper, an energy analyst at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and the author of several studies on Soviet energy consumption, said, "The drop in energy use will be fast enough to allow them to maintain their exports."
"I didn't think that even six months ago," Dr. Schipper said, adding that there is risk in any prediction about the area that used to comprise the Soviet Union. But economic activity is declining sharply, he said.
And the activity that replaces the old economy will use less energy, the experts say. Dr. Gustafson pointed to estimates that the Soviet military swallowed 60 percent of the "metal bashing industries," to make tanks and other heavy equipment; much of that, he said, will disappear.
Likewise, he said, ministries built huge buildings to house bloated bureaucracies, and in an economy where raw materials, when they were available, were essentially free, the buildings "were always built heavy, never economized on the use of materials, and were built in a way that leaked energy."
New buildings, to the extent that they are built, will be more efficient, he said. Likewise, "pioneering" Soviet developments, like the Baikal-Amur Mainline railroad, vast irrigation networks and "endless Siberian projects" are probably a thing of the past, he said.
Dr. Schipper pointed to other places where consumption would decline. "They won't drive as much, which will save on gasoline," he said. "They will probably waste a lot less fuel in trucking, because there just isn't that much to send around." Still, he said, some processes will become less efficient, with consumption falling less than overall economic production, because factories will be kept open and their boilers will continue consuming fuel, even if they nearly stop producing goods.
Significantly for Western Europe, both reports predict a huge surplus of natural gas in the former Soviet Union, as the domestic demand dries up. Petroleum Industry Research Associates put the figure at seven trillion cubic feet a year, which, it noted, is four times as much as is currently exported to Western Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (65%); AFLT (RTS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IHS INC (65%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (51%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; FORECASTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AIRLINES (83%); TRENDS (79%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); JET FUEL (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



933 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Canada Beer and Asia Tools Target of U.S. Import Curbs

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27

 BODY:
The Bush Administration said today that it planned to impose duties on Canadian beer to retaliate for Canada's restrictions on American beer. And it said it would extend some restrictions on imports of tools from Taiwan and Japan used to make machinery, including military equipment.
The move against Canadian beer could result in a doubling of the price of imported brands like Molson, Labatt and Moosehead next April, when the duties are scheduled to go into effect, although continuing negotiations could lead to smaller duties or no duties at all. 
 The tool restrictions would retain five-year-old caps on imports from Taiwan and Japan that were initially imposed because of the Reagan Administration's reluctance to have the United States become dependent on foreign equipment for the American military buildup.
Coming three days before President Bush's trip to Asia, on which he will press Japan to pull down its trade barriers, the two announcements this afternoon appeared to represent a shift in Administration policy, trade experts said.
"Taking machine tools and Canadian beer on the same day adds up to a get-tough stand on trade policy," said Gary C. Hufbauer, a fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
The two decisions are likely to mean that the Administration will extend similar import restrictions on steel and impose permanent duties on imports of Canadian softwoods next spring, he added.
But the White House press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, who announced the machine-tool decision today, avoided presenting that action as a move toward protectionism.
"The main responsibility for achieving international competitiveness rests with the industry itself," he said.
The announcement today to prepare sanctions on Canadian beer imports, which was made by the deputy United States trade representative, Julius L. Katz, reflected American frustration with six years of efforts to open up Canada's beer market. Quebec province, for example, has 11,000 grocery stores licensed to sell domestically brewed beer but only 300 stores are licensed to sell American beer.
The Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which sets rules for international trade, issued rulings disapproving of the Canadian beer restrictions in 1988 and again this year, but has not required removal of the limits, which are set and maintained by each province. The GATT ruling this year only requires Canada to file reports next March and July on any changes in its policies.
The Canadian Embassy here objected to the American announcement, adding that it planned to comply with the GATT ruling.
"Canada has told the U.S. that retaliation is premature and inappropriate," said Pam K. Chappell, an embassy official.
 
Suit by U.S. Companies
 Two American brewers, The G. Heileman Brewing Company and the Stroh Brewery Company, filed a legal case against their Canadian rivals in 1990 that forced the Office of the United States Trade Representative to announce by Sunday whether it was prepared to impose duties.
The exact amount of the duties on the $150 million a year of Canadian beer imported into the United States will depend on a planned Government study to determine the value of sales now lost unfairly by American brewers.
If the Government study finds that American losses exceed $150 million, the Administration will seek to eliminate Canadian beers from the American market by charging a prohibitive tariff that could exceed 100 percent of the wholesale price, said an American trade official who insisted on anonymity. People would presumably stop buying Canadian beer if it rose to $10 or more a six-pack.
 
Partial Duty Possible
 If the study found that losses were less than $150 million, the Administration could either impose prohibitive duties for part of each year or a moderate duty all year, the trade official added. The United States currently charges a duty of 1.2 cents a liter, or about 2 1/2 cents a six-pack, for Canadian beer, and this is scheduled to fall by 25 percent next year because of the free trade agreement with Canada.
Today's decision on machine tools was particularly hard fought within the Administration because it involves both trade and national security issues at a time when American officials are groping toward new policies after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
The Office of the Trade Representative and some White House officials had argued that continued restrictions could not be justified on purely economic grounds because of the industry's success in competing against some imports. The Defense Department, however, successfully argued that national security required President Bush to extend some of the restrictions, which are actually imposed by the exporting countries under American pressure as so-called voluntary restraint agreements.
 
From Cars to Submarines
 Machine tools are used to cut and grind the metal parts for everything from cars to bombs and nuclear submarines. Some members of Congress had joined the Defense Department in warning that the United States could not afford to depend on imported tools lest the supply be cut off.
Free-traders in the White House and elsewhere in the Administration had contended that the war in the Persian Gulf and the Soviet Union's collapse had made it unlikely that the United States would again fight a war long enough to require the mobilization of the American economy.
President Bush ordered today that import restrictions on machining centers and computer-controlled machines that punch, shear, round and mill metal be extended for two years, although the caps are to be gradually lifted during that time. But import restrictions on similar machines without computer controls will be allowed to expire next Tuesday.
The Coordination Council for North American Affairs, which represents Taiwan in the United States, said the American decision unfairly penalized Taiwan. The decision keeps imports at 1986 levels, when Taiwan's industry was still small.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (60%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: STROH BREWERY CO (60%); G HEILEMAN BREWING CO INC (60%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN; JAPAN; CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BEER; MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TOOLS IMPORT TRADE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BREWERIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



934 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Flop: Low-Income Housing

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Congress has written new laws to insure that some of the lower-priced homes seized in the savings and loan debacle are sold to low-income families.
Calling it the silver lining of the savings and loan foreclosures, Congress set up a program to accomplish this in 1989. But so far many of the properties have gone instead to buyers with higher incomes, large corporations like the General Electric Company, or rich real estate developers. In some cases, condos in resort towns, not college towns, have gone to college students whose parents put up the money. 
 But it is not at all clear that the program will work under the new laws any better than they did under the old.
The Resolution Trust Corporationremains torn between the same conflicting desires: to help the poor but also to earn as much money as possible for the Government.
Housing advocates say the agency still has enormous discretion to act as it sees fit and that its inclination has generally been to make it much more difficult for poorer buyers than for developers or private corporations to acquire the available houses or apartment complexes.
"A lot will depend on the R.T.C.'s willingness," said Barbara Thompson, director of government affairs of the Council of State Housing Agencies. "And their track record hasn't been strong."
Last month as Congress debated the changes, the housing advocates point out, property sold at a well-publicized Resolution Trust auction in Texas went to rich developers while nonprofit housing corporations walked away empty-handed.
For its part, Resolution Trust acknowledges that problems have existed in carrying out the affordable-housing program as Congress intended but pledges to do better. Stephen S. Allen, the program's director, insists, "We have a lot of new latitude and we will be aggressive."
If Resolution Trust does not act with greater concern for low-income families, Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who pushed the new affordable-housing provisions last month, says he will ask Congress to mandate what provisions to leave to the agency's discretion.
Among other things, the new provisions permit, but do not require, the agency to negotiate directly with nonprofit buyers rather than have them bid against private developers. To help prevent real estate speculation, buyers who sell their homes within a year will have to return 75 percent of any profits to Resolution Trust.
The changes require buyers of apartment complexes to set aside more units for the poor, bring into the program thousands of additional properties seized from failed banks as well, make financing easier for buyers, empower Resolution Trust to negotiate directly with nonprofit groups and permit it to donate houses and apartment complexes directly to state housing agencies.
This year, the agency has sold 6,300 of the 21,000 homes in its inventory and more are coming in every day, but critics are still skeptical that low-income families will get many of them.
 
Housing Subsidies
For the Middle Class
 "I don't believe a substantial number of homes are going to end up being occupied by lower-income families," said John J. Henneberger, head of the Texas Low Income Housing Information Service. "The R.T.C. is basically operating a middle-income housing subsidy program here."
For instance, housing advocates point to 8,000 properties for sale in Texas, where college students have been buying condos, sometimes for as little as $12,000 in resort towns. At a recent auction of 1,000 Texas properties, nearly half were bought by one-person households. Resolution Trust is debating whether to allow this situation to continue. But, Barry Wides, the agency's financing coordinator, said in a recent interview that the regulations "never state we can exclude students; they fall within our income limits."
Houses in the program are limited to those with an appraised value below $67,500 and are reserved for buyers whose household income falls below 115 percent of the area's median income. These houses are reserved for qualified households for a 90-day period -- 180 days under the new law -- and, if not sold, are offered on the open market.
 
Well-Heeled Buyers
Qualify Easily
 But determined buyers who hardly appear poor can slip through. For instance, in Rockport, Tex., a Gulf Coast town, L. E. Casterline, a director of the First National Bank of Rockport and a partner in a real estate firm that does business with Resolution Trust, was able to qualify as a low-income buyer and submit the winning bid for a condo adjacent to the country club of which he is a founding member.
Mr. Casterline, who lives with his wife in a house they own, reports an income of only $21,000. He said Resolution Trust never looked into his assets. Besides, he said his wife and sons, who have taken over his shrimping business, had assets, but he did not. "I went in, and the R.T.C. qualified me, so I bid," Mr. Casterline said. "I hadn't made any money and my tax returns show that."
Teresa McUsick, a spokeswoman for Resolution Trust, said the agency was investigating Mr. Casterline's eligibility and added that up to 5 percent of the bids in that auction might have been ineligible. She conceded, however, that the agency did not look at a person's net worth, only income, and that it had no enforcement powers, only the ability to stop a sale.
Few who can be considered truly low income appear to be getting homes, Mr. Henneberger said. The main problem for low-income families remains, as it has from the start, the difficulty in getting mortgages from banks to buy the homes.
Resolution Trust contends that its statistics show an increasing number of sales to poorer families. But housing advocates question the data and say precise information is extremely difficult to get.
The Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency, after analyzing data last fall, found that of 232 homes the agency said it had sold to low-income buyers, there were no income data on 129 of the bidders, or 56 percent.
 
Good Information
Is Hard to Find
 In Texas, Mr. Henneberger said he had filed a Freedom of Information Act request for detailed information on buyers and had been told it would cost $14,500 in computer time, more than his agency could afford.
Conrad Egan, executive vice president at the National Housing Partnership, said: "It's like pulling teeth. If you know the exact right questions and find the right person, you may find something out. Then again, you may not."
Mr. Henneberger said his agency had received a list of available houses, found six they wanted to buy for battered women and went to Resolution Trust with earnest money. The agency said it had never owned four of them, had sold one and had a contract pending on another. He then got a list showing 29 duplexes available in the program. When he put in a bid, he was told all had been sold. When he checked further, he was told that the duplexes had never been listed with the program, even though some sold for as low as $8,000.
"This process is nuts," Mr. Henneberger said.
Housing authorities said much of the impetus for the new legislation came after The New York Times published an account in June of a plan under which G.E. was about to obtain 6,000 apartments under the program. G.E. was to buy the apartments from Resolution Trust for an estimated 50 percent discount by agreeing to set aside 35 percent of them for low-income renters. G.E. would "aggregate" -- a real estate term meaning to segregate economically -- the low-income tenants into 11 of the 26 complexes and rent the rest at market rates. All of the properties would then be resold at a profit to new buyers: the rent-controlled complexes to nonprofit groups and the market-rate ones to private developers. "We want to sell them at something above what we paid for them." said John Deterding, a senior vice president at General Electric.
In a Congressional hearing following this account, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady acknowledged that the affordable program was off to a slow start, and the Secretary for Housing and Urban Development, Jack F. Kemp, pledged to make improvements. Both are members of the policy-making Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust Corporation.
Since then, the $75 million General Electric deal, the largest in the program, has gone through. Though it spells profits for General Electric, housing advocates say it will create the slums of the future. "It's a recipe for disaster," said John J. Ervin, a consultant to Volunteers of America.
Mr. Deterding of G.E. disagrees. "We'll round up the cream of the crop of nonprofits to buy these properties," he said. In the meantime, General Electric plans to keep them "so well maintained they will not become a slum."
 
Some Foresee
Slums of the Future
 "G.E.'s strategy is a perversion of the program," said Sara Johnson, executive director at the National Housing Trust. "From a social point of view, bunching all the poor people in one property and letting General Electric make hay out of the others is just wrong."
Earlier this month, G.E. persuaded the Government, through the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, to issue $15 million in tax credits on the complexes. This arrangement will enable a nonprofit organization buying the property from G.E. to sell the credits to a third party as a tax shelter and use the proceeds to pay G.E. Nonprofit groups say this arrangment helps them raise money; they also point out that tax credits are a direct loss to the Treasury -- in effect, General Electric is tapping the Treasury to generate more money for itself.
Under the new law, still to be budgeted, buyers of apartment complexes must set aside 40 percent of the units for low-income renters, instead of 35 percent, and to limit aggregation, buyers of more than one complex must reserve at least 10 percent of the units in each complex for the poor.
Still, General Electric's ability to find profits in a program for the poor is being emulated by other developers. "I dropped into a conference for real estate moguls and the view was that the G.E. strategy was the way to go," said Ms. Johnson of the National Housing Trust.
So far, of the 514 apartment complexes listed for sale under the program, only 20 have been bought by nonprofit groups or public-housing agencies. In a recent Texas auction of 62 complexes, held while Congress debated the issue, only five went to nonprofit groups. "This is a sham," said Bart Harvey, chief executive of the Enterprise Foundation, a nonprofit organization that bid on five of these properties and got none. "We were fools to ever get involved." Mr. Ervin of Volunteers added: "There is little if any concern about the living conditions of the people. There's a lot of frustration."
Nonprofit groups, which often fashion bids from grants, tax credits and borrowings, cannot put together the all-cash deals that profit-minded buyers can.
To remedy this, Resolution Trust says it is arranging special financing with the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, for nonprofit groups that should level the playing field, said Mr. Wides of Resolution Trust. And the new law allows Resolution Trust to provide credit enhancements for nonprofit groups that issue tax-exempt bonds.
The new law also requires Resolution Trust to make detailed reports on the status of the program at six-month intervals to Congress.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Henneberger, who is the head of the Texas Low Income Housing Information Service, says, "The R.T.C. is basically operating a middle-income housing subsidy program here." (Zigy Kaluzny for The New York Times) (pg. 44)
 
Graph: "Where the Houses Go" shows the status of the apartment complexes eligible for the Resolution Trust Corporation's Affordable Housing Disposition Program - to make housing available to low-income people - listed in September. (Source: Resolution Trust Corporation) (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (72%); GEC (LSE) (72%); GE (SWX) (72%); GE (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (72%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (96%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (96%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF STATE HOUSING AGENCIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (96%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (96%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF STATE HOUSING AGENCIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



935 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Securities Narrowly Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in extremely slow trading yesterday.
"What little activity there has been is related to year-end book balancing," one Government securities trader said. 
 But unlike the seasonal activity in previous years, the squaring of positions has not included much outright selling.
"Customers have huge pent-up profits, but we are seeing very little selling," the trader added. "For more than a decade, December has been a time to take profits. But not this year. That's a clear sign that investors think the rally is going to continue."
The continued rise in the Dow Jones industrial average, which posted a high yesterday, had little effect in the fixed-income markets even though the performance of the equity market is widely seen as a harbinger of future economic trends.
 
Effect of Stocks on Bonds
 Earlier this year, for example, a rising stock market sent shivers through the bond market because credit market participants feared that the gain in equities signaled an improving economy that could push interest rates up.
Raymond W. Stone, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., firm that researches developments in the foreign exchange and fixed-income markets, said there were good reasons that credit market participants were not focusing on the rise in stock prices.
"The Federal Reserve's dramatic one percentage point cut in the discount rate last week took the market by surprise," he said, "and the fact that economic data released this month have been weak has also helped to hold the market together. So, too, has continued talk that the Treasury might reduce the size of its bond offerings."
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 105 25/32 , down 3/32 , to yield 7.51 percent, compared with 7.50 percent late Thursday and 7.57 percent on Dec. 20.
 
More Gains Are Expected
 Analysts said further declines in bond yields are possible once the holiday season has passed.
"We do not look for anything in the economic data to be released in early January to get in the way of a rally," analysts at Ramirez Capital Consultants wrote in their daily market commentary.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 104 7/8, up 6/32 , to yield 6.81 percent. And the 5 percent two-year notes were unchanged at 100 10/32 , to yield 4.83 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were mixed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.83 percent late yesterday, down 3 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 2 basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.87 percent. One-year bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 3.96 percent.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose during the week ended Dec. 16.
The reported increases in M-2 and M-3, the two broadest money measurements, were larger than most Wall Street economists had anticipated. However, the report had no impact on prices in the fixed-income markets.
Trading in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was slow, according to participants. They said prices of most issues were essentially unchanged.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, prices of most widely quoted securities were up by about an eighth of a point in quiet trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BOND ISSUES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



936 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Auto Export Cut Weighed By Japanese

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Japan said today that it might reduce auto exports to the United States as a way to answer President Bush's demands for more trade fairness, but such a move is expected to have little effect.
Government officials disclosed the possible cutback as part of what they called their best effort to defuse rising trade tensions. 
 Confronting a recession in an election year, Mr. Bush is expected to make tough requests on his Jan. 7-10 visit for the Japanese to open their markets wider to American goods and restrain their export-driven economy.
 
Traveling With Auto Officials
 Mr. Bush will be accompanied by the heads of the Detroit auto makers, a reflection of the importance the United States Government attaches to the trade problem. The Big Three have been among the most visible American manufacturers hurt by the recession and competition from Japan.
About 75 percent of Japan's $41 billion trade surplus with the United States last year was connected with the automobile industry. The Japanese now claim about one-third of the United States car market, while only a handful of American cars are sold in Japan.
Japan's International Trade Minister, Kozo Watanabe, said at a news conference today that the export-reduction plan could be ready before Mr. Bush arrives.
Still, it is highly questionable what such a measure would accomplish. Japanese car exports to the United States have actually declined since 1987, partly because Japan's leading auto makers have established assembly plants in the United States.
 
Drop in Car Exports
 Japan already restricts annual car exports to the United States to 2.3 million. Passenger car exports to the United States in the fiscal year ending March 31 are expected to be about 1.75 million, down from about 1.85 million a year earlier, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association says.
American trade officials also want to increase the United States share of the Japanese car market, now less than four-tenths of 1 percent. Japanese often complain that American auto makers are not doing enough to sell here, while United States officials say informal barriers, like stringent inspections, keep imports out.
A senior Foreign Ministry official indicated today that trade issues would not be ignored in documents to be released at the end of the meeting with President Bush.
Initially, Japan had hoped the meeting between President Bush and Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa would produce a declaration focusing on global cooperation. But Japan now supports issuing documents at the end of the meeting regarding "concrete action plans" on economic and other pressing issues, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT AUTO AUCTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



937 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filings Up 24%

 BODY:
The number of personal bankruptcy filings have soared by 24 percent in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, increasing in every region of the country, Government figures show.
The East was hit hardest. Personal bankruptcies rose by 50 percent in a region containing Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island, and 43 percent in New York, Connecticut and Vermont. 
 Over all, the number of personal bankruptcies nationwide rose to 848,812 in the period from Oct. 1, 1990, to Sept. 30, from 685,429 the previous year, according to the Office of Administrative Courts in Washington.
"We don't really see any end in sight in terms of setting new records every quarter," Judy Kent, a spokeswoman for the American Financial Services Association, a trade group for non-banking providers of consumer credit, said yesterday.
The New England region recorded 27,138 personal bankruptcies, with 47,206 in the New York-Connecticut-Vermont region.
The number of filings rose 42 percent in Delaware, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, to 40,711, and 37 percent in Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia, to 60,697.
In the South, personal bankruptcy filings rose 29 percent in Alabama, Florida and Georgia, to 119,403, and 16 percent in a region containing Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, to 68,020.
The smallest increase was 11 percent in Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Utah and Wyoming, to 53,416.
In the Midwest, personal bankruptcy filings rose 19 percent, to 120,475, in Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee, and 17 percent in Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, to 76,972.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (57%); AURORA, OH, USA (57%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); LANSING, MI, USA (55%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); DOVER, DE, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES OF HAWAII INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (57%); AURORA, OH, USA (57%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); LANSING, MI, USA (55%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); DOVER, DE, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES, PERSONAL; BANKRUPTCIES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



938 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Disney Doubts Trade Report

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Recession and the Persian Gulf war slowed the turnstiles at Disneyland and kept attendance flat at Southern California's four other major amusement parks, an industry publication reported.
This week's Amusement Business magazine estimated that Disneyland attendance dropped about 10 percent, to 11.6 million this year. 
 A Disneyland spokesman, Greg Albrecht, disputed the report Thursday, but said it was the park's policy not to divulge attendance figures.
"I don't know where they got those figures," Mr. Albrecht said. "Our feeling is we've had a very healthy year. We've had an excellent first quarter and one of the best Christmases ever."
Tim O'Brien, editor of the Nashville-based magazine, said the estimate had been based on industry sources, an analysis of tourist patterns and data supplied by competitors.
The magazine said business was unchanged at Universal Studios Hollywood, Knott's Berry Farm in Buena Park, Sea World of California in San Diego and Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia.
A Unversal Studios spokesman, Steve Lew, said new attractions and a resurgence in foreign tourism kept business from slipping at the Universal City park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO; DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF) WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (91%); KNOTT'S BERRY FARM FOODS INC (69%); UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOLLYWOOD (56%); SEA WORLD OF CALIFORNIA INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PERSIAN GULF WAR AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



939 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Report of Lower Oil Stocks Pushes Energy Prices Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Most energy futures prices rose in thin trading yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange after an industry report showed an unexpected drop in United States crude oil stocks.
Crude oil for delivery in February rose 26 cents, to $18.76 a barrel; January wholesale home heating oil rose 0.06 cent, to 50.38 cents a gallon, and 
 January wholesale unleaded gasoline climbed 0.43 cent, to 53.42 cents a gallon.
Natural gas futures ended narrowly mixed. The February contract fell 0.3 cent, to $1.378 for 1,000 cubic feet.
February crude reached its intraday high of $18.79 early in the session in reaction to a weekly American Petroleum Institute report released on Thursday that showed a 4.5-million-barrel drop in domestic crude stocks.
Crude seesawed for much of the rest of the session before closing higher in a rally led by the refined products.
The price of crude has fallen from $23 a barrel over the last two months as unseasonably warm weather and the recession softened demand and supplies proved abundant.
 
Buying by Short-Sellers
 Analysts pegged yesterday's gains mainly to buying of gasoline and heating oil contracts by traders who previously sold those products at higher prices. Most of the action occurred in the January contracts, which expire Tuesday.
Analysts discounted the petroleum institute's report of lower-than-expected gasoline and heating-oil stocks.
Despite a 1.5-million-barrel decline in domestic supplies of heating oil, which is also known as No. 2 oil, stocks remain burdensome, said James Ritterbusch, vice president of trading and research at the Carson Petroleum Company, a Chicago-area oil distributor.
"The bottom line is that there are still over 140 million barrels of 2 oil, and that's plenty," he said.
He noted that unseasonably warm weather is expected to continue in the Northeast at least through the second week of January, which indicates weak heating-oil demand.
Tom Bentz, director of trading with United Energy Inc. in New York, said, "The fundamentals really have not changed, and any rally should be viewed as a selling opportunity."
Grain and soybean futures ended mostly lower on the Chicago Board of Trade. Profit taking ended a rally in the wheat market that had lifted near-term deliveries by 19 cents a bushel in the four previous sessions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (75%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (75%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COMMODITIES; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE PRICE INCREASES (93%); FUTURES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



940 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Generally Higher, But It Falls Against the Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened further against the yen yesterday but gained against leading European currencies, helped somewhat by political tensions in the former Soviet republics.
Gold prices weakened. In New York, the Republic National Bank quoted bullion at $353.75 late yesterday, down $1.20 from Thursday. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery fetched $353.60, down 90 cents. 
 Foreign-exchange dealers said they did not read too much into the dollar's behavior, since trading was extremely light. European and Hong Kong markets reopened yesterday after a two-day Christmas break.
 
 
Anticipating Bush Visit
 The main action was in dollar-yen trading, which over the last few days has kept the dollar at its weakest levels since the fall of 1990.
Investors have been buying yen before President Bush visits Tokyo next month, on the assumption that the Japanese will try to bolster the value of their currency to help ease Japan's enormous trade surplus with the United States and forestall American trade sanctions.
On Thursday, Japan reported that its overall trade surplus more than tripled in November, to $7.26 billion.
"When they're faced with that kind of high trade surplus, they're willing to do something that shows they're willing to help out," said Charles Cossentino, assistant vice president at the New York branch of Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank.
 The dollar has also weakened markedly against European currencies since last week, when the Federal Reserve cut lending rates.
European traders kept selling the dollar yesterday, but the currency's slide was reversed in late dealings in the United States. Traders reasoned that the Soviet crisis could have a profound effect on Germany and other neighboring economies, so they bought dollars instead.
This gave an undertone of strength to the dollar, which is historically considered the best safe-haven currency in times of political upheaval.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 125.75 yen, down 0.90 yen from Thursday. In London, it was quoted at 125.80 yen. In New York, the dollar traded for 125.93 yen, compared with 126.40 on Thursday.
The British pound fetched $1.8755 in London, weaker than its $1.8760 value late Tuesday, the last trading session before the market's Christmas break. In New York, the pound fetched $1.8740, weaker than its $1.8840 value on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); POLITICS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



941 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Your Taxes;
Making It Easier To File Returns

BYLINE: By Robert D. Hershey Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE Internal Revenue Service, freed for the time being from carrying out major changes in the tax law, is pressing efforts to make it easier for taxpayers to file returns -- at least simple ones. More than 110 million packages of forms are to start reaching taxpayers on Jan. 2.
In Ohio, 1.2 million taxpayers eligible to use Form 1040EZ -- single people with income under $50,000 -- will be able to file by telephone. They must fill out a five-line Form 1040-TEL, entering wages, interest and tax withheld. They then call a toll-free number and punch in the information. The I.R.S. takes over from there, figuring the tax and refund or amount due while the taxpayer remains on the phone. 
 Finally, the taxpayer signs the form and mails it in along with W-2 statements from employers. Refunds are sent in about three weeks.
In another experiment, one in which the I.R.S. does practically all the work, the 1040EZ-1 program is being expanded to 340,000 residents of Rhode Island, Texas and Washington. The taxpayer merely supplies any interest income, answers three questions, attaches W-2's and signs the form.
Meanwhile, electronic filing by computer, first tested in 1986, is to reach another milestone. This year it can be used for balance-due as well as refund returns, and I.R.S. centers in Austin, Tex., and Memphis will join those in Andover, Mass.; Ogden, Utah, and Cincinnati in accepting them.
A new form also should make filing easier for business owners -- although not for employees who do some work at home -- by allowing them to list home-based expenses in one place. Form 8829 is for data that entrepreneurs now supply on Form 1040 Schedule C or on Form 4562.
This year's packages of forms cost about $13 million to print and $19 million to mail, a total of 29 cents apiece, the agency figures.
 
Sorting Out Tax Proposals
 With passage of some sort of vote-catching tax bill considered an almost sure bet for 1992, proposals are proliferating. Among the 15 or so entries so far are the Tax Fairness and Savings Incentives Act, the Family Tax Relief Act, the Enterprise Capital Formation Act, the Tax Fairness for Families Act, the Working-Family Tax Relief Act, the Economic Growth and Family Tax Freedom Act, the Middle-Income Tax Relief and Fairness Proposal, the Economic Growth and Jobs-Creation Act and -- no doubt a long shot -- the Family and Corporate Tax-Sense Act.
Since this clearly requries a scorecard, the Tax Foundation has provided one, offering summaries of each major proposal and a calculation of how much two hypothetical families would save.
A family with two dependent children now paying $4,654 on income of $30,000 would find its total Federal tax bite -- income and Social Security taxes -- decline anywhere from $236 in the first year for Senator Bob Packwood's plan to $1,300 under the one advanced by Senator Robert Kasten and Representative Vin Weber.
Mr. Packwood, an Oregon Republican, would cut taxes on middle-income people and expand individual retirement accounts. Mr. Kasten of Wisconsin and Mr. Weber of Minnesota, also Republicans, propose a cut in capital gains taxes and credit for each child in addition to expanding I.R.A.'s.
For the same-size family but with two full-time workers earning a combined $53,265, the results change. A Democratic plan sponsored by Senator Albert Gore Jr. of Tennessee and Representative Thomas J. Downey of Suffolk County would trim a modest $396 from a current tax bill of $10,568. The proposal offers tax credits offset by increases for high earners. The most generous plan is that of Senator William Roth, a Delaware Republican. His "Jog America" plan, according to the nonpartisan research organization, would save that family $1,672 with three-percentage-point cuts in lower-bracket rates and a major expansion of I.R.A.'s.
 
Footnote:
 * An investigation by the General Accounting Office found no conflict-of-interest violations by top I.R.S. officials, including Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg Jr., in the agency's March 1990 decision deeming that auction rate preferred stock is equity rather than debt. It also found that there was no violation of rules requiring officials to recuse themselves from, or avoid involvement in, matters that might pose a conflict. Mr. Goldberg's former law firm represented the American Express Company, the parent of Shearson Lehman Brothers, a pioneer underwriter of such securities. Still, the G.A.O. found it "troubling" that the agency's primary consultant on the issue was Shearson.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); OGDEN, UT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) ENTERPRISE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (51%); ENTERPRISE CAPITAL CORP (51%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); OGDEN, UT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); TELEPHONES TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX REFORM (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (75%); TAX WITHHOLDING (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



942 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates At 18-Year Low

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27

 BODY:
The average interest charged on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages dropped to its lowest level in more than 18 years, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said today.
Economists believe rates may continue falling slightly after the new year begins, but they said rates will likely start to climb again in the spring as the economy emerges from its slump. 
 "This is probably a perfect time to start looking for a home and close on a mortgage in the next few weeks," said Mark Zandi, an economist with Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa.
"I think we're getting near the bottom in the rate decline. But I wouldn't be surprised if rates continued to decline in the next few weeks."
Fixed rates this week fell to an average of 8.35 percent, down from 8.49 percent the previous week, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac, said. It was the lowest since rates averaged 8.26 percent during the week ending Aug. 3, 1973.
On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, the average initial rate was 6.02 percent, down from 6.21 percent last week. It was the lowest since Freddie Mac began tracking adjustable-rate mortgages in 1984.
The rates do not include add-on fees known as points.
The drop in mortgage rates this week followed the Federal Reserve's sharp, one percentage point reduction in its discount rate, which it charges on loans to member banks. The rate is now 3 1/2 percent, the lowest in 27 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RATES; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



943 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Real Gains In an Era of 4% Yields

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
As a new year sweeps in, Americans are confronted with an unhappy choice: Whether to accept skimpy interest of 4 percent or less on their savings or, in the quest for a decent yield, to put their money into investments that entail worrisome risk.
Two years ago, certificates of deposit, money-market funds and Treasury bills offered 8 percent interest. Even after inflation and income taxes, these investments -- known as cash equivalents because they pose little or no risk to principal -- provided a positive return on money. But those days are past. 
 Many people have a marginal tax bracket around 40 percent -- a 31 percent Federal rate, plus state and local taxes. That would reduce a 4 percent yield on a money-market fund, for example, to 2.4 percent after taxes. With inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, running at an annual rate of 3.6 percent, they have a negative real return.
To get a positive return today, people must take some risk. Securities that offer a potential for price appreciation may lose value instead. In longer-term bonds or notes, the principal is safe if held to maturity and the issuer is sound, but if inflation and interest rates heat up the bondholder could be locked into an underperforming asset.
The trick is to evaluate the risk-reward tradeoff and identify which investment will most closely fill your needs. That means the already overburdened consumer has to become more educated than two years ago.
"Individuals should start with themselves and what they need and when," said George E. L. Barbee, executive director of client services at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm. "It's where we start with every single client."
For example, he said, if a client needs to pay a child's college tuition several years from now, he may suggest "time-matched maturities," that is, bonds or certificates of deposit that begin maturing when the child enters college and are "laddered over the course of the education."
The interest they pay will be higher than short-term savings. And it is important to lock in the amount of money that will be needed at that particular time, not worrying about where interest rates might be then.
If the client's needs are longer term -- say, a 45-year-old wants to build a nest egg to retire in 15 or 20 years -- a good portion might go into stocks because, despite short-term volatility, over longer periods stocks generally provide a greater total return, in price appreciation plus yield, than other investments. In the last decade, the return on equities as measured by Standard & Poor's 500 stock index averaged more than 17 percent a year, 10 percentage points above Treasury bills.
To get that sort of return, Mr. Barbee cautioned, investors need to stay the course. "Plenty of people try to out-time the timers," he said, meaning they seek to buy low and sell high or panic when the market tumbles. They "get whipsawed," he added.
"Some people can't afford to play in the game at all," he went on. "If they need the money for tuition or a major expenditure six months from now," the prudent choice is a short-term cash equivalent, despite the current low yields.
Once investors have decided which types of holdings are best, it is time to choose the particular investments.
 
Likes 7-Year Treasuries
 In bonds, Martin J. Mauro, senior economist with Merrill Lynch & Company, noted that the yield curve, as the spread between short-term and long-term rates is known, is "as wide as it has been for any sustained period," with 3-month Treasury bills around 3.9 percent and 30-year Treasury bonds about 7.5 percent, for a difference of 3.6 percentage points, or 360 basis points in market jargon.
"Take advantage of the steep yield curve, but only to a point," he said at the firm's annual outlook briefing in New York last month. "In Treasuries, 70 percent of that 360 basis points is in the three-month to seven-year portion."
Therefore, he recommends seven-year Treasury securities -- either notes or bonds purchased in the secondary market -- for "the optimal risk-reward combination." In the municipal market, he would extend maturities to 15 to 20 years. He also sees opportunities in high-quality corporate issues, rated double-A or triple-A. The spread between yields on these issues and lower rated bonds is not enough to offset the risk, he said.
 
Harder Choices in Stocks
 In stocks, the choices are more difficult. Robert J. Farrell, Merrill Lynch's chief market analyst, noted that blue-chip stocks like those measured by the Dow Jones industrial average had moved within a 5 percent range in the last year, but that certain segments like medical and financial services had performed strongly. Also, bullish sentiment in 1991 has already given the market a high valuation.
"It may be a time to take some profits and reduce some risks," he said, adding that a decline of 15 percent or more may lie ahead, although January should provide a clearer indication of the market's future direction. "At present, the market has less potential than a year ago. Avoid big-ticket consumer stocks." He said he favors buying high-yield stocks in industries like producer capital goods, oil services and utilities.
"There are three themes we like in the 90's," he said. "Stocks with strong growth or earnings momentum, small and medium capitalization stocks and capital goods." He recommends buying stocks in small companies with good growth potential when prices dip or in dollar-cost averaging, investing a set amount regularly over the long term.
The difficulties of picking stocks notwithstanding, Mr. Farrell said, in general"the individual is underinvested in equities compared with other assets: 16 percent, down from a peak of 35 percent in the 60's, and the alternatives to equities are not going to work in this decade. Real estate is not going to be the great wealth provider it was in the past."
If the task of picking stocks is too daunting, mutual funds may be the way to go. Professional portfolio managers make the selections.
For example, the Kaufmann Fund, a no-load mutual fund that invests in small growth companies, had a 52 percent rise in the first three quarters of 1991 and a 121.7 percent return over the years 1988 through 1990. It is heavily weighted in medical stocks like T2 Medical and Kinetic Concepts, consumer-oriented companies like Filene's Basement and Outback Steakhouse, and certain high-technology companies.
If you want it both ways -- more current dividend income and some potential for price appreciation -- equity income funds like Oppenheimer Equity Income and MetLife-State Street Equity Income are a possibility. Their yields are more than 4 percent, and combined with price appreciation, they have outperformed both bonds and inflation over the years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The first step, said George E.L. Barbee of Price Waterhouse, is to decide what you need and when. (Price Waterhouse)
 
Graph: "The Investment Squeeze" shows the yield on 3-Month Treasury Bills; and Consumer Price Index percent change, annual rate. (Source: Department of Treasury (bill rates); Bureau of Labor Statistics (C.P.I. figure)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENTS; FINANCES, PERSONAL; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); 

PERSON: BARBEE, GEORGE E L; ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



944 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Religion Notes

BYLINE: By Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:

Islamic Symbols
With Christmas trees and Hanukkah menorahs everywhere in shops, banks and some post offices in the past month, an Islamic group is hoping that the crescent and the five-pointed star will get equal time in the holy season of Ramadan. 
 Dr. Mohammad T. Mehdi, secretary general of the National Council on Islamic Affairs, wrote about that in a letter to David Rockefeller, the former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank, and John F. Kelly, the postmaster of New York. "The banks and post offices should honor Islam as they honor Christianity and Judaism," he said.
Dr. Mehdi said that Ramadan, a month of fasting and prayers that is determined by the sighting of a new moon, is expected to begin next year on March 5. The end of the period is celebrated with a festival, Eid al-Fitr.
"Celebrating Islam and recognizing it as an integral part of the American society is a tribute to the ever-expanding America," Dr. Mehdi wrote. "I trust that banks and the post office will not wish to discriminate against Islam."
Spokesmen for the bank and the United States Postal Service said they were not aware of Dr. Mehdi's letter. Dr. Mehdi said that he had not yet received a response. "Maybe after the holidays," he said.
 
Views of New Age
 A new survey finds that half of Americans who are aware of New Age religions scoff at them and a third say they are detrimental to traditional Judeo-Christian beliefs. Yet large numbers of Americans follow many New Age practices, the survey says.
The term New Age encompasses a wide range of beliefs that stress the paranormal or the harnessing of untapped mental powers through such means as rock crystals, clairvoyance and astrology. Some beliefs run counter to traditional religion, but others, like healing through touch, have been part of it.
The survey, by the Princeton Religion Research Center, an affiliate of the Gallup Organization, found that awareness was low (only one in four Americans knew of New Age religion) and suspicion high (49 percent of those aware of it had an unfavorable opinion). Yet among all Americans, roughly half said they believed in extrasensory perception, the ability to perceive thoughts and feelings by means other than the five senses.
In general, Roman Catholics are more open to the paranormal than Protestants, the survey found. For example, among all those surveyed 30 percent of Catholics and 22 percent of Protestants said they believed in clairvoyance, the ability to see in the mind or through some medium like a crystal ball events in the future or in another place. Forty-eight percent of Catholics and 44 percent of Protestants said they believed in psychic healing. And 25 percent of both groups said they believed that the affairs of their lives may be governed by the movement of the stars.
The New Age experience that scored lowest in the poll concerned rocks. Only 5 percent of Catholics and 3 percent of Protestants said they believed that healing could be obtained thorugh crystals.
The poll takers wrote: "The line separating established religious belief and practice from superstitions and cult practices can often be thin and indistinct. Many who consider themselves good Christians nonetheless have engaged in practices that seemingly are counter to the teachings of their church."
The findings were based on a nationwide sample of 2,045 adults reached by telephone from July to September 1990. The results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 
Limits on Holy Days
 Are Roman Catholic Holy Days of Obligation "spiritual alarm clocks" or "hardships for priests and the faithful"?
Those were the two sides in the debate among Catholic bishops on the question of whether to reduce the six days aside from Sundays when Catholics are required to attend Mass. A proposal to do away with some holy days did not receive the required two-thirds majority at the November meeting of all bishops in Washington.
But in a recent mail ballot, the bishops voted to do away with the obligation when some of the days fall on Saturdays or Mondays, which leads to requiring attendance at Mass two days in a row. The three days affected are the Solemnity of Mary, the Mother of God, which is observed on Jan. 1; the Feast of the Assumption on Aug. 15, and the Feast of All Saints on Nov. 1.
The days not affected are Christmas; the Feast of the Assumption on Dec. 8, and Ascension Thursday, which comes 40 days after Easter.
The vote, which still requires confirmation by the Vatican, would be the first change in a century in the observance of Holy Days of Obligation in the United States.
 
High School Plan
 The Jewish Theological Seminary, which ordains rabbis for the Conservative movement, will open a coeducational high school on its main campus in Manhattan next fall. The high school, where both general and religious studies will be taught, will be part of the nationwide system of Solomon Schecter Day Schools. It will begin with a ninth grade in the fall and add a grade each year.
The high school will not be the first established by a Jewish seminary. In 1915, the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, an Orthodox seminary that later gave rise to Yeshiva University, opened a yeshiva high school for boys on its Manhattan campus. In 1948 it opened a separate high school for girls. The two continue as separate schools of Yeshiva University.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Religion Notes column last Saturday about Roman Catholic Holy Days of Obligation referred incorrectly to the observance on Dec. 8 for which attendance at Mass will remain obligatory, regardless of the day of the week on which it falls. It is the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. (As noted elsewhere in the report, the Feast of the Assumption is observed on Aug. 15; for that day, if it falls on a Saturday or a Monday, the nation's bishops are proposing that the obligation to attend Mass be lifted.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (52%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RAMADAN (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (79%); HANUKKAH (78%); POSTAL SERVICE (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI DAVID ROCKEFELLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1991



945 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Philippines Orders U.S. to Leave Strategic Navy Base at Subic Bay

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Dec. 27

 BODY:
The Philippines told the United States today that it must withdraw from the Subic Bay naval base by the end of 1992, ending a vast American military presence that began with the capture of the islands from Spain in 1898.
The decision, which resulted from an impasse in negotiations, follows a year of intense talks between the countries on the fate of American bases in the Philippines. The announcement also comes just three days before President Bush begins a 12-day Asian tour. 
 The shutdown of the sprawling Subic Bay base, together with the closing of Clark Air Base after a volcanic eruption this year, amounts to the biggest reduction to date in the United States military presence in the western Pacific. The 60,000-acre Subic base is the Navy's principal supply and ship-repair installation in the region.
 
U.S. to Look for New Sites
 Although it is theoretically possible that a new agreement could be hammered out, Administration officials in Washington said that they considered this unlikely, and that they would accelerate the pullout and the search for alternative sites in the Pacific.
American and Philippine officials reached tentative agreement last summer on a treaty that would have extended the lease on the naval base for at least another decade in exchange for $203 million in annual aid. But the Philippine Senate rejected the treaty in September after an impassioned debate in which the American military presence was assailed as a vestige of colonialism and an affront to Philippine sovereignty.
The United States never increased its offer, but opened negotiations on a three-year phased withdrawal in the hope that the lease could be extended after a new government is elected in the Philippines in May.
The negotiations stumbled, officials said, over the United States' reluctance to commit itself to a firm schedule for removing troops and equipment and to guarantee that no nuclear weapons would pass through the base. Though President Bush has said that tactical nuclear weapons will be removed from surface warships, it is assumed that many of the ships that pass through the port are armed with them now.
But over the past month it has become clear in any case that the American military was reconciled to losing the base, and saw little use in dragging out the process. By the middle of 1993, most of the American personnel and much of the movable equipment would have been moved elsewhere, at a cost of billions of dollars, and sending them back would have probably proved prohibitively expensive.
"Once it begins, it is an irreversible process," a senior American official said today. "The bottom line is that we are gone."
President Corazon C. Aquino had vowed to find a way to keep the United States in place, even proposing a referendum on the issue after the Senate rejected the bases treaty. But Mrs. Aquino, who has indicated that she does not plan to seek re-election next year, eventually backed down in the face of adamant political opposition.
Money was not an issue in the impasse. In recent years, Washington has pledged a certain amount in economic, military and housing assistance instead of paying yearly rent for American bases. In the fiscal year that ended in September, the Philippines received $408 million in connection with the bases, and the Subic Bay base has pumped more than $344 million a year into the country's economy.
As the prospects of remaining in the Philippines have faded in recent months, Defense Department officials have scrambled to find alternatives. None of the proposed sites, including Singapore and Japan, two scheduled stops on the President's trip, seem to match Subic's advantages, which include huge deep-water facilities and access to the strategic waters of the South China Sea.
Subic, 50 miles west of Manila, is the last of six American bases that until recently housed 40,000 troops, dependents and civilian employees. Four others were returned to the Philippine Government this year. Clark Air Base, the other major American installation in the Philippines, was abandoned in June and eventually closed after it was buried in volcanic ash from the eruption of nearby Mount Pinatubo.
 
Threat and Interest Wane
 Both American and Philippine officials said today that the United States' willingness to retain the Subic base had waned in recent months, especially after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. "Global events overtook Subic and undermined its value," said Alan Ortiz, assistant director of the Philippine Government's National Security Council.
Franklin Drilon, one of Mrs. Aquino's top aides, said at a news conference in Manila that "the friendly and cordial relations between the United States and the Philippines will continue."
The closing of the base will mean relocating 5,800 officers and enlisted men and women, 600 civilians working for the Department of Defense and 5,000 to 6,000 military dependents. It will also be a major economic loss for the impoverished Philippines, which will lose the aid it receives annually for use of the base and the hundreds of millions of dollars in business generated by its presence.
About 20,000 Filipino workers are employed there, and the honky-tonk bars of Olongapo and Subic, the two cities that border the installation, are legendary among generations of sailors whose ships have pulled in to Subic's docks. Many predict that the cities will become neon ghost towns.
 
Commitment to Asia Questioned
 The withdrawal may also raise questions about the Bush Administration's assertion that the United States remains fully committed to Asia, a theme the President is expected to voice throughout his trip.
"Without the bases in the Philippines, I don't think there is any question that U.S. influence in Asia will decline," Masashi Nishihara, a professor at Japan's top military institute and an analyst of security policy in the Pacific, said today in a telephone interview from Tokyo.
"If events occur in the South China Sea -- a conflict between China and Taiwan, for example, or Hong Kong -- the United States may have very little ability to change events," he said. "As we learned in the Persian Gulf war, effective diplomacy has the backup of an effective military."
Singapore has already offered the United States access to ship-repair sites and says the United States can base some forces there. But the tiny island nation is too small to be of more than token use. The commander of the Pacific fleet, Adm. Charles R. Larson, said recently that he was talking with Malaysia and other nations, but that no site could match the advantages of Subic Bay, which included a plentiful and inexpensive work force.
"A lot of functions will be dispersed, and a lot will be returned to the United States," a senior American official in the Philippines said today. "And some will just disappear."
 
Negotiators Exasperated
 American officials seemed somewhat relieved that the long and often angry negotiations with the Philippines were over, and that the United States could quickly withdraw from its former military empire there. Negotiators have expressed exasperation with what they view as Mrs. Aquino's confused signals and ultimately ineffective leadership on the issue.
In the Philippine Senate, the move to eject United States forces seemed less a debate over the bases' value than a demonstration of sovereignty and national pride. The Philippines was essentially an American colony from 1898, when George Dewey sailed into Manila Bay to defeat the Spanish fleet, until 1946, when it became an independent republic.
Subic Bay, which began as a Spanish military garrison in the late 1860's, has always been a critical part of America's military operations in the Pacific. It is the main repair site for ships operating everywhere from Japan to the Indian Ocean, and marines have long been trained in jungle warfare in the wooded mountains near the base. It was the site of fierce battles with the Japanese during World War II, a staging area for naval operations during the Korean and Vietnam wars and a strategic counterpoint to Soviet forces in Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam.
But the vast American military presence has long been an irritant in the Philippines' uneasy relations with the United States. Resentment flared this year when Mrs. Aquino's Government finally negotiated the 10-year extension of the Subic Bay lease. Opposition was fierce in the Senate, where lawmakers asserted that the deal would perpetuate the country's image as an American lackey, though polls suggested that the Philippine people largely supported the treaty.
It is unclear whether nuclear weapons are stored at Subic. The United States, following its usual policy, will not say.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Philippines told the United States that it must withdraw from the Subic Bay naval base next year. A United States Navy ship docked at the base in July after the eruption of the Mount Pinatubo volcano. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 2)
 
Map of the Phillipines showing location of Subic Bay Naval Base. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); SPAIN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); SPAIN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS;
NAVIES ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (91%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (55%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1992



946 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Taming Japan's Trade Surplus

BYLINE: By C. Fred Bergsten; C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, is a former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Japanese trade surplus is soaring again. It will probably hit a record $100 billion for 1991 and rise even higher in 1992. Japan now has the only sizable surplus, with Europe as well as the United States running large deficits.
Two steps are urgently required. First, the value of the yen should be raised substantially. In addition, the Japanese must be encouraged to end the recent stagnation in their domestic spending, which has led to renewed reliance on exports. 
 The grossly undervalued yen is now weaker than at the end of 1987. But a lot has happened to improve Japan's competitive position. Its inflation has run 8 to 10 percentage points less than American inflation in this four-year period (about 2 percent a year versus America's 4.5 percent). At the same time, Japanese productivity has grown by 8 to 10 percentage points more -- about 5 percent annually from 1987 to 1991 compared with 3 percent for the U.S. This means the yen is now undervalued in trade terms by 15 to 20 percent. Correcting this should cut the Japanese surplus by $30 billion to $50 billion.
President Bush should therefore work out an agreement with Japan to strengthen the yen to about 100 to 1 against the dollar from its current level of about 125 to 1. Clear statements and joint intervention in currency markets by the Group of Seven industrial nations should be enough to start the bandwagon rolling. A similar strategy in 1985-87 succeeded, so we know that currency changes will promote a turnaround.
The second immediate cause of Japan's trade surge is an abrupt slowdown in domestic spending as an engine for expansion. After five years of rising domestic demand for imports -- a period in which its surplus declined by more than 5 percent of its real gross national product -- Japan's internal spending has stagnated for the past six months. As a result, import growth is flat and Japan is once again relying on exports.
President Bush must therefore seek a Japanese commitment to restore domestic expansion, each percentage point of which would cut Japan's surplus by about $3 billion. Japanese national and local government combined is running a sizable surplus. Hence it can stimulate the economy through new tax cuts and spending that will improve living standards. It is incomprehensible that the Japanese bureaucracy is now contemplating new tax increases instead, which must be firmly rejected.
America cannot blame Japan for its present recession or more fundamental economic woes. The U.S. will restore solid and sustained growth only when it deals decisively with its own basic internal problems.
But Japan's soaring trade surplus indicates that production and jobs are being created there at the expense of growth in the rest of the world, much of which is stagnating, rather than through domestic spending on better housing and other amenities desperately needed by the Japanese people.
These trade patterns are particularly critical for the U.S because its recovery depends heavily on trade gains: our huge deficit precludes higher Government spending to expand the economy and the financial system's fragility is stifling any stimulating impact of low interest rates. If the Japanese trade excess continues, new protectionist actions are likely.
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa carried out a plan in 1986-87 like the one proposed here when he was Finance Minister working with then Treasury Secretary James Baker. Mr. Miyazawa could make a dramatic contribution to the world economy and U.S.-Japan relations by initiating such steps with President Bush. His doing so would show that Japan was finally ready to accept the global responsibilities that must accompany its economic success.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE;
CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS;
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); RECESSION (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); TRENDS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (60%); 

PERSON: BERGSTEN, C FRED GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1992



947 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Letter: On Poverty;
Growth of Mother-Centered Families

 BODY:
To the Editor:
New Census Bureau findings on the leap in percentages of single mothers among American teen-agers ("Larger Number of New Mothers Are Unmarried," news article, Dec. 4) brought to mind the Economist article (April 27) identifying as the least solvable of all family poverty problems "the increasing proportion of children born out of wedlock." 
 We can take this further. The traditional family is nearly nonexistent. There is a fast-moving global trend that shifts the economic responsibility for families from men to women. The result is variously called the mother-centered family and the matri-weighted household. By whatever name, one of every three households in the world has a woman as its sole breadwinner. In another third or more families women are co-breadwinners with a working husband. In rural-based economies, women often grow the food for the family (in Africa, 80 percent; Asia, 60 percent) and market the surplus to get needed cash. They are some 70 percent of the world's micro-entrepreneurs. And the evidence is overwhelming that the bulk of women's earnings is spent on the children.
The myth of the male breadwinner persists in societies despite such facts. The myth dictates that a man must have higher wages than a woman because he (supposedly) is the sole or major support of a family. The prevalence of this myth permits employers to pay women only 50 to 70 percent of men's earnings.
Women heading families are lucky to get above the poverty line. Their earnings are too low and their dependency ratio is too high. Worst of all, as noted in your editorial of March 4 last ("Schools Are Not Families"), a high-school dropout with one or two children who is a female household head has a cruel 89 percent chance of falling into poverty in the United States today.
How then do we stave off family poverty? We can lament the demise of the traditional family, but sentiment never fed a hungry child. More realistically, for a start we can: (1) banish the myth that the family breadwinner is always male, and pay women a family wage; (2) get "Iron Johns" to talk tough about supporting the children they co-create, and (3) get girls worldwide to finish secondary school.
 
MARGARET C. SNYDER
New York, Dec. 10, 1991
 
The writer is founding director of the United Nations Development Fund for Women.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter; Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; WOMEN; CHILDREN
AND YOUTH; DISCRIMINATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TRENDS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); MEN (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); CENSUS (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SNYDER, MARGARET C

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1992



948 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 40; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Ms. Schindler, Student, Is Wed

 BODY:
Sophie Hood Schindler, the daughter of Dr. Frederick J. Schindler of Fort Washington, Pa., and Sheila Bodine Schindler of Chester Springs, Pa., was married yesterday to Curtis Alba Glovier, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Glovier of McLean, Va. The Rev. James Ransom performed the ceremony at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia.
Mrs. Glovier, 26 years old, graduated from Princeton University and is studying for an M.B.A. degree at Columbia University. Her father is a senior research fellow at Rohm & Haas in Fort Washington, the industrial chemicals and plastics company. 
 Mr. Glovier, 27, is a consultant with the Boston Consulting Group, a management consulting concern, in New York. He graduated cum laude from Princeton and received a master's degree in economics from James Cook University in Townsville, Australia, and an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. His mother, M. E. Glovier, is an assistant principal at J. E. B. Stuart High School in Falls Church, Va. His father is the director of research reactors at the Oak Ridge (Tenn.) National Laboratory.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sophie Glovier (Sheila B. Schindler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (67%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (67%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (67%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (57%); ROHM & HAAS CO (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (67%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (67%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (67%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); CHEMICALS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); 

PERSON: SCHINDLER, SOPHIE HOOD (SOPHIE HOOD GLOVIER); GLOVIER, CURTIS ALBA DAVID MACLEAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



949 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: No Free Ride for Credit Services

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I disagree with the view that free credit reports will cost credit bureaus and creditors too much ("In Credit Reports, 'Free' Isn't The Issue," Forum, Dec. 8). Free credit reports are the touchstone of a credit reporting system that is fair to the three parties in the system's three-way transaction -- creditors, the bureaus and consumers. Free reports offer a shortcut -- what economists call a "second-best solution" -- to a clearly impossible task: building an error-free, but reasonably priced credit bureau computer. 
 That's why every major consumer and privacy group in the country supports free credit reports as a major part of a comprehensive credit bureau reform package offered by Representative Esteban Torres, Democrat of California, and to be considered by Congress in 1992.
 
EDMUND MIERZWINSKI
Washington, Dec. 11
 
The author is with the United States Public Interest Research Group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (53%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (56%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (56%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); WRITERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); 

PERSON: MIERZWINSKI, EDMUND ESTEBAN EDWARD TORRES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



950 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Way to Fight a Recession

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's first step toward an anti-recession policy is a serious misstep. Federal regulators, at the behest of the Treasury Department, are telling bank examiners to ease up on loan officers. The idea is to entice banks into extending more loans -- even ones hitherto deemed a shade too risky -- to pump life into a stagnant economy.
But manipulating loan decisions to fight recession is dangerously wrong. It invites loan officers to make the same mistakes that buried the economy in wasteful real estate boondoggles during the 1970's and 1980's, and buried taxpayers under a $500 billion bailout. 
 Indeed, Federal officials have yet to produce evidence that loan decisions are the least bit responsible for the recession. Sure, bank loans are off. But that's primarily because loan applications decline during recession; relatively few businesses want to expand when sales are plummeting. Banks are also turning down familiar corporate customers because in a poor business climate even trusted borrowers can become risky.
Federal officials can perform a useful role in fighting recession, but not by arm-twisting bank examiners. During the last few months the Federal Reserve Board has rightly put its foot firmly on the monetary pedal, driving up the money supply at double-digit rates. Unfortunately, the intended consequences of accelerated money growth -- lower long-term interest rates, higher investment and consumer spending -- won't be felt for several more months. That's agonizingly slow, but to try to hasten matters by interfering with bank lending procedures invites peril.
In recent testimony before Congress, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, urged examiners to substitute their own, presumably more favorable, appraisals of real estate for appraisals based on current market prices. He called for appraisals that reflect the long-term value of properties, not their "liquidation" values because, he argued, banks aren't forced to unload properties at a fire sale.
That's a bizarre analysis, coming as it does from a devotee of market efficiencies. To appreciate why, just ask yourself a simple question. Who would you trust to take a safe long-term view of property values? Investors betting their own money? Or Federal officials responding to White House pressure to play loose with other people's money?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; REAL ESTATE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; BANKS AND BANKING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (75%); HOME PRICES (68%); MONEY SUPPLY (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



951 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: In the Nation;
A More Desperate Struggle

BYLINE: By TOM WICKER

 BODY:
The end of the Soviet Union and the resignation of Mikhail Gorbachev, though at least a momentary gain for freedom and democracy, are sad events. The fall of a giant state, owing largely to its own human flaws, has the quality of tragedy; and a great leader's peaceful surrender of power again demonstrated the vision that distinguished him, as few others of his time.
President Bush paid the proper tribute when he said that Mr. Gorbachev had been "responsible for one of the most important developments of this century -- the revolutionary transformation of a totalitarian dictatorship and the liberation of his people from its smothering embrace." 
 Boris Yeltsin and Mr. Gorbachev's other successors have yet to show themselves capable of achievement on such a scale. They, and we, might well keep in mind Benjamin Franklin's reply to a woman who asked what the Founding Fathers of the United States had created at Philadelphia in 1787:
"A republic, if you can keep it."
More immediately, the transformation of the Soviet Union into the Commonwealth of Independent States leaves Washington the necessity to exercise in a new world a more visionary leadership than it provided the West during the cold war. Military and political confrontation needs to be replaced by a more demanding diplomacy on numerous economic and environmental complexities. These may be less apocalyptic than a nuclear exchange, but are more threatening to peace and stability.
Even the survival of some or all peoples is at risk in the great environmental issues the world has only begun to face -- like global warming or deforestation -- and on which the U.S. has failed, so far, to display the kind of foresight and courage for which Mr. Bush rightly praised Mr. Gorbachev.
For the Soviet Union's political and economic systems, Mr. Gorbachev recognized the inevitable, and acted on it, not always wisely but with great goals constantly in mind. For the equally difficult problems of the world's debased and deteriorating environment, Mr. Bush disputes the predictable and acts as if he and his country need take no responsibility for the future:
* Though the world needs to restrain its use of fossil fuels and emission of carbon dioxide, Mr. Bush proposes oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, holds back from higher auto mileage requirements and shrinks from a petroleum tax that would reduce auto usage and greenhouse gases, and raise needed revenues.
* Though global population growth still strains natural resources and exceeds the world's ability to provide jobs and decent living standards -- in Latin America and the Caribbean, 44 percent of the labor force is unemployed or underemployed -- the Bush Administration, owing to its fear of anti-abortion forces, refuses to contribute to the U.N. Population Fund, or to support domestic or foreign family-planning programs.
* Many nations are substituting military expenditures for sustainable development; the U.S. gives high priority to anti-missile defenses against ill-defined future threats.
In these areas as vital to the global future as a strategic arms treaty, the Administration not only abdicates leadership; by its own policies or lack of them, it provides instead a bad example to a world that now must look first to Washington for vision, encouragement and help.
Mr. Bush has not even agreed to attend the so-called "Earth Summit" in Rio de Janeiro, a U.N. Conference on Environment and Development, to be held in June. In sharp contrast, both Japan and Europe are pushing to use the "Earth Summit" to set global targets -- to limit, for instance, emissions of warming gases like carbon dioxide, in which the U.S. leads the world.
Even with a 30 percent cut in carbon dioxide emissions by 2005, the U.S. still would exceed the average of most European nations. But at least until the departure of John Sununu as White House chief of staff, the Administration did not even approve the concept of global warming -- while many authorities fear the world already may be too late in trying to reverse it.
Such quiescence is unworthy of a great nation, the last superpower, the leader of the free world in its "long, twilight struggle" against despotism. As the U.S. did not hesitate to spend its resources to prevail in the cold war, it needs now to go forward as boldly to lead a longer, more desperate struggle to save the planet, and rescue the human race from itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ARCTIC (73%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ENVIRONMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (86%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); EMISSIONS (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); DEFORESTATION (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); FAMILY PLANNING (63%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (50%); FUEL TAX (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



952 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Who Can Stop Civil Wars?

BYLINE: By Brian Urquhart; Brian Urquhart, scholar in residence at the Ford Foundation, was U.N. Under Secretary General for Special Political Affairs.

 BODY:
Civil war with modern weapons is a brutal and destructive business that is often extraordinarily hard to stop. Until now such situations have generally been considered as beyond the jurisdiction of international or regional organizations. Even the provision of international emergency humanitarian assistance has often proved difficult and controversial.
In Yugoslavia the pattern of non-intervention has been cautiously put aside. Both the European Community and United Nations are involved in efforts to halt the fighting and foster the process of peaceful settlement. In Somalia, in a far less publicized but even more lethal civil war, there has been virtually no regional or international effort to stop the fighting, and it has become increasingly difficult to provide even minimum humanitarian relief. In other formerly proud states, sovereignty is also dissolving into anarchy, fueled by old feuds and grudges and an abundant supply of arms. 
 In Yugoslavia, part of the problem is that without a cease-fire there can be no peacekeeping force, but without a peacekeeping force a cease-fire is unlikely. A similar impasse is likely in other places where there are international efforts to end civil wars.
In this time of extraordinary change, would a new approach be justified, and could it be agreed on?
At the moment, the U.N. has basically two military options. The first is traditional peacekeeping -- that is, forces that can only be deployed after a cease-fire is in place, that are accepted by the parties to the conflict and that may only use force in self-defense. The second option is a large-scale collective enforcement action like that in Korea in 1950 or, under Chapter VII of the Charter, in Kuwait in 1991 -- both under the leadership of the United States.
A third category of international military operation is needed, somewhere between peacekeeping and large-scale enforcement. It would be intended to put an end to random violence and to provide a reasonable degree of peace and order so that humanitarian relief work could go forward and a conciliation process could commence. The forces involved would be relatively small, representatively international and would not have military objectives as such. But, unlike peacekeeping forces, such troops would be required to take, initially at least, certain combat risks in bringing the violence under control. They would essentially be armed police actions.
This idea raises both political and practical questions. International intervention in most forms is now extremely suspect in many parts of the world. New rules of engagement would have to be devised. Staff, training, planning and command structures would have to be developed. A wide range of governments would have to be willing to provide highly trained and well-led military contingents under U.N. command.
In 1945, after six years of war, Article 43 of the Charter was considered to be an important practical innovation. It provided that U.N. members would "make available to the Security Council . . . armed forces, assistance and facilities . . . necessary for the purpose of maintaining international peace and security." Thus the Council would have the means to enforce its decisions, and the U.N. members would participate in this process according to their capacity. Paralyzed by the cold war, the Council never activated Article 43.
Perhaps, Article 43's time has now come, although in a broader context than originally intended by the words "international peace and security." The aim would be to enable the Security Council to deploy an international force quickly in a situation where the cycle of violence could not be broken except by firm intervention. Such a situation now exists in Somalia and perhaps in Yugoslavia. It existed in Liberia until the military intervention earlier this year by the Economic Commission of West African States. Such situations exist or can be expected in a number of other places.
As with all innovations, there will be plenty of arguments against intervention by a new type of international force. There is one large argument in favor of it. The unraveling of national sovereignty seems to be a feature of the post-cold war period. In more and more situations, only firm and evenhanded intervention from the outside is likely to put an end to self-perpetuating bloodshed and the progressive ruin of once peaceful human societies.
Can the United Nations do something to meet this challenge? Or must the world continue to stand by and watch the carnage on television?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES CIVIL WAR (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%); 

PERSON: URQUHART, BRIAN

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



953 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Cut Social Security Tax to Boost Spending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Recent economic columns disdain tax cutting as a counter to the recession. The Federal Government, according to this view, would poorly select and tardily deploy the tax-cut weapon. While the blundering of politicians during a Presidential election year is surely to be feared, one must nevertheless respect the ability of Congress to implement certain economic policy options. 
 One such option combines near-term economic stimulation with political sex appeal: A temporary 50 percent cut in the Federal Insurance Contribution Act withholding tax -- the Social Security tax -- could take effect immediately, providing a nearly universal 3.1 percent increase in take-home pay and a 3.1 decrease in employer payroll costs.
Virtually all of this money would flow into pocketbooks for spending on domestic goods and services. Employers might be tempted to reconsider plans for layoffs in light of improved business prospects and reduced labor costs.
In contrast, the benefits of income tax reductions would flow late and disproportionately to consumers of imported goods; and capital gains tax reductions, to the extent that they fostered savings and investment, could be self-defeating.
Some may decry this proposal's impact on the Federal deficit (though withheld tax revenues are only lent, not donated, to the Federal Government). I suggest Congress extend the Social Security tax to amounts over $53,400. Incomes up to $106,800 would still be less burdened than at present. For those with even higher incomes to complain about reduced means would be unbecoming.
A lower Social Security tax spread over a larger tax base might even work well enough to deserve permanence.
 
RON GREENBERG
Glen Rock, N.J., Dec. 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX WITHHOLDING (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: GREENBERG, RON

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



954 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Given New York Today, Could Anyone Lead It?

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IN 1989, when New Yorkers had grown tired of Edward I. Koch and were yearning for a new beginning -- or, at least, some peace and quiet -- David N. Dinkins was asked whether the city had gotten so out of control that not even a mayor could make a difference.
"If nothing else," Mr. Dinkins replied, "I can change the climate, the atmosphere. I can provide leadership.
"If a mayor can't make a difference," he said, "who can?" 
 To Mr. Dinkins, it was a characteristically rhetorical question. To many New Yorkers, that question has assumed a concrete dimension two years into his mayoralty: Is this Mayor making a difference? If he is doing the best he can, has it been good enough? Could anybody -- anybody endowed with the ambition or illusions to want the job, that is -- do any better?
If visitors from outer space landed today and demanded, "Take me to your leader," to whom would New Yorkers lead them? To Lowell Weicker? To Boris Yeltsin? To Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who abdicated an opportunity for national leadership ostensibly to fulfill his obligations at home? To anyone in New York City, unless all that was wanted was a ceremonial welcome?
To Mr. Cuomo, the void in political leadership is an enduring national phenomenon, one dramatized most recently by the intense speculation about his candidacy for the Presidency and one that he says was immortalized two decades ago by Simon and Garfunkel: "Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? A nation turns its lonely eyes to you."
It's not just Joe, though. Where have the likes of Franklin D. Roosevelt gone? Or of Fiorello LaGuardia? Or of any of the other legendary public figures who embodied leadership qualities without crossing the line between bold populism and ugly demagoguery?
In 1991, David Dinkins seemed to his critics to be a paradigm of unfulfilled wishful thinking. Entering office with only modest performance expectations in the opinion polls, he seemed even to some supporters to frequently perform below them and, at the same time, to sell himself short.
New Yorkers have an uncanny knack of choosing the right candidate for the right time. In 1989, Mr. Dinkins was elected Mayor as much to heal as to lead. If, as some supporters maintained, his greatest asset was that he had always been underestimated, his greatest mistake was to get elected during a recession. By midterm, even among those people who expressed their approval of Mr. Dinkins in a New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll, more than twice as many predicted that the city would get worse over the long term than said it would get better.
The Mayor is hardly devoid of accomplishments -- from luring the 1992 Democratic national convention to New York, to redeeming his pledge to be the toughest Mayor on crime by expanding the police force, to personally intervening to quell racial disturbances in Brooklyn's Crown Heights last summer. Moreover, perhaps the Mayor was heeding Jefferson's dictum that "great innovations should not be forced on slender majorities."
 
Mixed Messages
 But Mr. Dinkins's two-year tenure has been hobbled by mixed messages: two days after repeating his toughness pledge, he delayed police hiring; his police hiring plan was immediately followed by the threat of thousands of layoffs, many of which never took place.
"While the Presidency can elevate even average people," Wallace S. Sayre and Herbert Kaufman wrote presciently decades ago, "the mayoralty is the highly vulnerable symbol of all defects in the city and its government."
A portion of today's power shortage is institutional. LaGuardia presided over New York City during the Depression, but was bolstered by a sympathetic President and a powerful Democratic machine and less hampered by the diffusion of government power. Mr. Dinkins, in contrast, is so confined by Federal, state and court mandates and by declining resources that his discretionary power over spending is limited to about one-half of one percent of the city's budget.
The context in which Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City proclaimed, "I am the law," has been debated for decades, although historians have largely concluded that his despotism surpassed his benevolence. LaGuardia generally left a better impression, even if his perception of power -- "In this administration," he informed one balky alderman, "I'm the majority" -- was often no less absolute. In "Fiorello H. LaGuardia and the Making of Modern New York" (Penguin), Thomas Kessner wrote that his "government represented a dangerous style of personal rule hitched to a transcendent purpose," adding, "Perhaps even in a democracy that sort of leadership is necessary to create the sweeping changes that LaGuardia fashioned." Professor Kessner said though, "People would be afraid of allowing anybody to take that kind of power today."
Even LaGuardia "used to say one person cannot make a difference," said Charles V. Hamilton, author of "Adam Clayton Powell Jr.: The Political Biography of an American Dilemma" (Atheneum). "When he was responding to the Harlem audiences in the 1930's riot and again in 1943, he said our problems are economic, and that means Washington." Leadership, Professor Hamilton said, "can establish to a certain extent a mood of either confidence or of pessimism."
Mr. Dinkins has often been accused of failing to meet that definition of leadership, too -- of lacking a vision or, at the very least, the skill to convey one on television. He may believe that he is handicapped, in part, because he is the city's first black mayor, but that defense cannot fully explain his unpopularity. Among blacks in the Times/ WCBS poll, fully a third said it was time to give someone else a chance to manage the city.
Rudolph W. Giuliani, who nearly defeated Mr. Dinkins two years ago and is preparing another challenge in 1993, once compared this Mayor with Winston Churchill during the Battle of Britain: "There was not much Churchill could do to stop the bombs from falling, but he talked about making sacrifices for the future. He didn't just say that things were worse in Czechoslovakia."
But Edward N. Costikyan, a lawyer and former Democratic leader in Manhattan, complained that the phenomenon is not unique to Mr. Dinkins. "A whole generation has been brought up believing that leadership is out of place and in bad taste, that you have to find out what your people think first and that you can't take a chance," Mr. Costikyan said. He recalled the persistence of Mayor Robert F. Wagner, hardly a charismatic figure either, in winning approval to fluoridate the city's water supply nearly four decades ago -- suggesting that, perhaps, history might be kinder to Mr. Dinkins.
"Wagner was a great leader," Mr. Costikyan said, "although none of us realized it at the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins, elected as much to heal as to lead, found himself facing a crippling recession. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); POLITICS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (64%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ROBERTS, SAM LOWELL PALMER WEICKER JR (55%); BORIS YELTSIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



955 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: In the New Era, a New Realism;
As Germany Flexes Its Muscles, The New Europe Goes Along

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
THAT a shiver would go down the spine of Europe when a reunified Germany started exercising its new political and economic muscle was not surprising. What is surprising, perhaps, is how the other nations of Europe seem to have accepted German clout as a natural part of the new order of things.
That the Germans can pursue what they see as their own national interests just as vigorously as the French or the British, despite their frequent professions of loyal support for European unity, became clear when Bonn charged ahead with long-delayed plans to give diplomatic recognition to Croatia and Slovenia, leaving the rest of the Europeans scrambling to catch up. This came only a few days after French and German leaders had tried to persuade the rest of their European Community partners to make more foreign policy decisions together, by consensus. 
 By barging ahead, the Germans forced the rest to recognize reality and acknowledge that Yugoslavia ceased to exist when civil war broke out last summer. The decision by the Europeans to recognize the two former Yugoslav republics by Jan. 15 will, according to the man behind the German move, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, provide greater international leverage against Serbia, the republic that is widely perceived throughout Germany to be the aggressor in Yugoslavia's civil war.
Whether it is right or wrong, the step fills something of a policy vacuum. Until former Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance undertook his peace-seeking mission for the United Nations, the influence of the United States had seemed altogether negligible in a disaster the Bush Administration had been quite happy to leave to the Europeans to try to solve. The European Community's peace negotiator, Lord Carrington, warned last week that recognition of two of the former Yugoslav republics wouldn't exactly help his efforts to bring about a cease-fire, but since Community Cease-Fire Number Umpty-Nine had just collapsed like all its predecessors, the warning was easy to shrug off.
International recognition of Slovenia and Croatia might not hurt either, most seemed to feel, though it certainly would if outside countries began supplying them with arms. This, however, is something the Germans say their constitution bars them from doing.
Even in Britain, few saw anything more sinister in the German argument, though some were reminded of the German-Croatian axis in World War II. Territorial ambitions have less to do with Bonn's interest this time than do feelings. Germans feel strongly about the right of national self-determination, since it brought them unification. And German politicians also feel the political pressures exerted by 700,000 Yugoslav "guest workers," many of them Croats, and their descendants who have lived in Germany since they were invited in the 1960's to come in and sustain the German "economic miracle."
"We have a large immigrant population of Indians, Pakistanis and Jamaicans," a British official close to Prime Minister John Major said understandingly of the German decision, "and if something happened in one of those places we'd come under great pressure to get involved, too."
 
A Missed Opportunity
 Mr. Major's predecessor, Margaret Thatcher, warned before unification that a united Germany would dominate Europe. She was right, but she also resisted moves toward closer European unity that were sought, in particular, by France, Belgium and the Netherlands as a way of countering the weight of the German colossus. Last week, even some British commentators were looking longingly at the prospect of European monetary union, perhaps as early as 1997, as a way of dealing with the problems caused by another unilateral German action -- raising interest rates to control the inflationary pressures of reunification.
If a common currency is established later in the decade, as European Community leaders agreed in the Dutch town of Maastricht earlier this month, it will require the Germans, too, to leave decisions about interest rates and other instruments of monetary policy to a European Central Bank in which they will have a strong but not determining voice. For now, Germany's Bundesbank seemed determined to show that it is still in control, and still dead set on keeping the mark steady, though the heavens fall, before it is replaced by the European ecu.
To keep their currencies stable against the mark in the European Monetary System, France, Italy and Spain all had to raise their domestic rates last week, despite the fact that all their economies have been hit hard by the recession. The German move was most painful for Britain, which is now unable to lower bank rates below 10.5 percent though unemployment has risen to 2.5 million, but it also hit President Francois Mitterrand hard in France, where unemployment reached a record high of 2.82 million last month and his popularity sank to a record low.
 
A Distasteful Choice
 Unlike him, Mr. Major has to face a general election some time in the next six months. The German monetary moves could soon put him in the uncomfortable position of being forced to choose between raising interest rates, thus killing off any remaining slim hope of an upturn before the election, or devaluing the pound sterling against the mark, and thereby losing face.
Germany's coming of age began when Charles de Gaulle demonstratively embraced Konrad Adenauer and bet on Franco-German entente as the best guarantee of continued French dominance of the European Community. With the United States now unsure at best how to preserve its strategic and economic interests here, the Germans have considerably more weight and room to throw it around in, a fact recognized by President Bush in mid-1989 when he disregarded former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's advice and let Chancellor Helmut Kohl refuse to station new NATO medium-range nuclear missiles on German territory.
That was clear American recognition of the new German clout, which seemed strangely absent last winter when the Chancellor failed to use it to fashion a concerted European response to the crisis in the Persian Gulf. Now, with that war over and the Soviet threat a startlingly distant memory, the Germans are beginning to behave more like what they really are -- a mid-range Central European power whose interests are not global, or even Atlantic, but mainly in Mitteleuropa.
The rest of the Europeans seem to realize that they are just going to have to get used to it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Chancellor Helmut Kohl, left, and Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the European Community's recognition of Croatia and Slovenia is a recent triumph. (Regis Bossu/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); CROATIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SLOVENIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GERMANY; YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA); SLOVENIA (YUGOSLAVIA) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); CROATIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SLOVENIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; CURRENCY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H ; WHITNEY, CRAIG R HANS-DIETRICH GENSCHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



956 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A Meditation;
History's Being Written, But It's Lives That Matter

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
THE rides are closed, guarded by snappish dogs. The broad boardwalk is almost deserted, gulls scream their elemental hunger, the air smells of briny decay. This narrow, desolate sand bar at the foot of Brooklyn, five miles long and nine eternal miles from Manhattan, feels like the end of the world.
I have come to Coney Island to walk in the winter wind and try to make sense of this remarkable year. 
 Somebody, clearly, has pushed the fast-forward button on history. Communism, apartheid, crooked Teamsters all seem racing toward extinction. General Motors and I.B.M. are shrinking, the Soviet Union dissolving, European nations merging. Takes your breath away.
The lot of Americans meanwhile diminishes. You can read it in the unemployment numbers, sense it in a general reluctance of people to spend money. Uncertainty -- and, increasingly, real fear -- flicker in people's eyes. No one knows what will happen next, and that takes your spirit away.
We lack the perspective of geologic time, which might or might not be a good thing. Just for a minute, consider the earth's history as the old measure of the English yard, the distance from the King's nose to the tip of his outstretched hand. One stroke of a nail file on his middle finger erases human history.
If we had such perspective, daily aggravations like desperate, forgotten people begging us for sustenance might not be so grating. At the least, we might remember life's kindest lesson: time heals.
 
An Immense Hurt
 My rubber soles squeak on the cold wood. The wind whistles in many tones, all at once. Sand races along an inch above the beach's surface. A solitudinous dreamer of small dreams combs the beach with a metal detector.
Two men, one white and one black, talk loudly on the boardwalk about the economy. "Nothing's made in America," one declares. His companion answers, "Everybody's out of work."
They sound almost trite, but there is immense hurt, a hurt widely shared, in these words. There is a feeling in the land that things are worse than before, that the only direction is down. Things were once certainly better on Coney Island.
Before the fires, the disastrous housing projects, the breakdown in services and all the rest, this penin sula called an island shimmered like a mythic paradise.
There was once a hotel in the shape of an elephant, John Philip Sousa led the band, Irving Berlin and Eddie Cantor sang. Cary Grant walked on stilts, Mae West performed her first act, rides spun people to Mars and beyond. On busy days, more than a million sunburned visitors gorged themselves on cotton candy.
"Fabulous and beyond conceiving, ineffably beautiful, is this fiery scintillation," the Russian author Maxim Gorky wrote in 1906 -- and he hated the place.
In the winter, many years later, there is just the leaden gray sky, the endless waves, the black form of the eerie and disgracefully decrepit parachute jump, a National Landmark. My son Roy, who will be 4 years old in February, grips my hand harder. We are a man and a boy walking toward an uncertain future.
A jogger waves. On the pier, people bait hooks with painfully red hands. Two dogs cavort. I continue to try to sort things out, admittedly most disjointedly.
One thing that keeps coming to the forefront is the meaninglessness of politics, at least as we usually understand politics. Who cares if Cuomo runs for President? Who cares if the President goes to Japan? Should we now lie awake worrying that Kazakhstan or some other leftover of the Soviet Union will nuke us?
Maybe, but most people's minds are closer to home. What concerns them is balancing the checkbook, keeping a tiny step ahead of those infernal credit cards, last night's arthritis attack, the radiant smile or icy silence of someone you love.
I think of my uncle who spent a career working for I.B.M., selling typewriters and moving every couple of years to a new city. A constant in his family's life were the signs that decorated whatever house was next. They said "Think," I.B.M.'s motto, in different languages.
Now I.B.M. is imploding, and one way one family defined itself seems a curious vestige. It must be vaguely the same for the Soviet "Hero Mothers" who adorned their children with those cute little "Baby Lenin" pins.
Questions of group identity are meaningless to people on the economic edge, of course. Not too long ago, I bought an unemployed friend lunch. He made a little sandwich and put it in his pocket. When I called him a couple of days later, his phone was disconnected.
 
Those Whom Life Kicks
 And there are the people whom life kicks, then kicks again and again. My brother was brain-injured at birth. His head was enlarged and his judgment terrible. But his intelligence was high, and he went to public schools in a small town. Thus did I learn of the special cruelty of children, no softer for being unknowing. Almost every family learns something of cruelty.
So as much as I could tell you of the pains I have witnessed and felt -- my beloved, once articulate mother's terrible stroke, and all the rest -- you doubtless have plenty of your own.
The point is that these concerns are what come first, along with the true joys of life: a new baby's gurgle, a graduation, a tree-planting. It is the joys that memory holds dearest, a great and inexplicable gift of the human mind.
All this makes it difficult for many people to keep up with the news, though everybody was happy the hostages, those poor hostages, were finally free. People's own lives are what matter, even in fast-paced times like these. Dollars to doughnuts, there are more people this morning concocting the perfect number to play in the lottery or daydreaming about old lovers than are reading the newspaper. And they are not bad people.
My son is now tired and we are both cold. We retreat to the tiny dining room in the back of the huge food stand that is Nathan's Famous at the intersection of Surf and Stillwell Avenues. There are beautiful plastic Christmas decorations, cheap only in price. The windows are in the shape of portholes. We are alone as we share the wonderfully greasy fries with melted cheese. Alone in paradise.
Our last stop is somewhere almost indescribably special. It is the B & B Carousell, spelled in the manner of the master craftsman who built it, William Mangels. The horses are decidedly of what is called the Coney Island style -- leaping, snorting, tongues protruding exuberantly. The calliope plays "Sidewalks of New York."
More than a year ago, on a summer day, on his first visit to this magical merry-go-round, my son ran to the big green stallion.But as it spun faster and faster, he began to cry. He was shaking like a leaf by the time I could help him to the ground.
Though no one was around the other day, the operator said he would, of course, start up the whole darned machine for just one little boy. Roy immediately selected the same terrifying green horse. Great.
But this time he grinned like a young Roy Rogers mounting Trigger for the Rose Bowl Parade. The bell sounded. As happy music filled the chilly air, the brightly painted steeds began their endless gallop -- up and down, round and round, through all the seasons and all the years.
Just like the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EUROPE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BURN INJURIES (64%); WRITERS (60%); METAL DETECTORS (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



957 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: 1960's Deja Vu;
New From Detroit: A High-Power, Gas Guzzling Muscle Car

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONE by one in a small factory in Detroit, the Chrysler Corporation is assembling by hand the American auto industry's newest car for the 90's: the two-seat, sunset red, 10-cylinder, 400-horsepower, $55,000 Dodge Viper.
Because Chrysler took just three years and $70 million to move the car from concept to market, Popular Science magazine this month named the Dodge Viper one of the year's 100 greatest achievements in science and technology. USA Today, reacting to the car's muscular design and raw power, said the Viper would "rip through the nation's automotive consciousness with the bite of an overamped electric current." The irony that seemed to escape them was that Chrysler's hot new car for 1992 is basically a 1960's muscle car. 
 Indeed, four months before the car's introduction, many people are talking about the Viper, but not always for reasons Chrysler expected. Conservation groups and some of the country's young car designers are criticizing the Viper as an anachronism, a gas-guzzling embodiment of an American auto industry looking backward to old successes instead of grappling with new political, economic, technical and environmental challenges.
One critic is Craig Durfey, who worked for Chrysler from 1986 to 1988 and designed the Viper's exterior. "This car represents a denial state in Detroit," said Mr. Durfey, 30 years old and now a senior designer for Audi in California. "It recognizes nothing about the world as it is today. It's an old technology car and an energy hog. The chairman and president of Chrysler see their childhood dreams crashing down around them. The Viper is their last scream, their last hurrah."
In the executive offices of the Chrysler Corporation, where the Viper is being counted on to add sizzle to the Dodge division's stodgy image, the criticism stings. "Forgive me, but this car is no more irresponsible, if you want to use that term, than any of the big high-powered Japanese sports cars," said Robert A. Lutz, the president of Chrysler. "Our intention was to produce an exciting, attention-getting sports car in limited quantities because when the car was shown as a prototype in 1989 it caused such an unbelievable amount of interest. We concluded the world was trying to tell us something."
It is no accident that the inspiration for the Viper was another powerful, reptilian, 400-horsepower two-seater manufactured in the mid-1960's, the Ford Cobra. Mr. Lutz and Chrysler's chairman, Lee Iacocca, former top executives of Ford, are seeking the same kind of steamy, explosive sports car -- an American Ferrari. The company hopes to build and sell 300 to 400 Vipers in 1992 and 3,000 in 1993. "I look at it as a sparse car, low in weight for its performance," said Mr. Lutz. "It's a very athletic car, like a male or female sprinter wearing a skin-tight track suit."
In January 1989, Chrysler introduced the Viper at the annual Detroit auto show, where it caused a sensation. Last May, Chrysler engineers quickly readied a prototype to be the pace car at the Indianapolis 500. Jay Leno and David Letterman are among the hundreds of car buffs who have placed orders for the Viper. And in television commercials, Mr. Iacocca talks about how the Viper was developed in record time by a small team of engineers and designers allowed to work largely without corporate interference.
The company's enthusiasm is shared by the industry's trade press. "It's radical," said Jean Lindamood, deputy editor of Automobile Magazine in Ann Arbor, Mich. "Big engine. Big cartoony design. It's very cool and it's done wonders for the morale at Chrysler."
But environmental groups say such talk is empty boosterism and hype. Other than its design, they say, the Viper is an old-technology car conceived at the end of an era of credit-stoked excess and ignoring the need for cleaner air and lower oil consumption.
"It's time for Detroit to respond to the present and the future," said Julia May, a staff member at Citizens for a Better Environment, an environmental group in San Francisco that wants to see gasoline-powered cars gradually replaced by cleaner electric or hydrogen-powered vehicles. "The car industry should be visionary and use their technology to solve environmental problems and provide jobs at the same time. Instead, they're waiting for the Japanese to beat them."
Robert Watson, an energy resource specialist in Los Angeles for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a national environmental group, noted that Chrysler is introducing the Viper while auto industry shows in Japan and Germany are featuring an abundance of electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles, and even cars that can close up like a clam for use in crowded cities. In Detroit, the auto show continues to feature roomy, big-bodied cars.
Image cars, like the Viper, are never meant to sell in huge numbers, but Chrysler's new car could hardly come at a worse time. Led by an expected $8 billion loss by General Motors, which plans to lay off 74,000 people and close 21 plants, the industry is suffering through another year of poor sales and continues to lose its share of the United States market to Japanese manufacturers. But the very bleakest trend is the market for pricey performance sports cars, which is tumbling faster than any other segment of the industry. Sales of Chevrolet's Corvette this year were the lowest since 1962.
"You wonder if Detroit will get the message," said Daniel Sturges, a 28-year-old designer from Frankfort, Mich., who has started a company to develop electric vehicles. "America is really rich in creative resources and Detroit needs to rethink what the car should be. It's such a different world. These are the problems American car companies should get excited about, really take on and daze their competition. Instead, they get inspired by what they did in the 1960's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chrysler's 10-cylinder, $55,000 Dodge Viper is being criticized by environmentalists and some car designers. (Chrysler Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; DODGE DIVISION OF CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; DODGE DIVISION OF CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; AIR POLLUTION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



958 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Domestic Pressures;
The Deal Gap: What Bush Needs and Tokyo Can't Give

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
JAPAN has looked forward to welcoming President Bush for months, hoping to give new definition to the global partnership between Tokyo and Washington. But now rising political problems for Mr. Bush and Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa are transforming the hopes into something like dread.
Instead of highlighting the issues that bind them together as allies, Mr. Bush's visit next week is likely to underscore the conflicts, especially in the trade area. Indeed, the President is coming to Japan with 21 executives of the automobile and other industries to press for more concessions to open Japan to American exports and investments just as Tokyo is hardening its attitudes and feeling more and more that American policies are the problem. 
 "We must do as much as we can," Mr. Miyazawa told Japanese business leaders last week. But it was clear that he and other Japanese leaders were neither prepared nor able to do very much. Tokyo is now frantically searching for symbolic steps that could satisfy Washington that progress was being made.
If this pattern looked familiar, it was. But Mr. Bush's trip was to have been the occasion in which the two countries were to have extricated themselves from the old neurotic pattern of the United States demanding and Japan acceding at the last moment, which has undermined confidence and patience on both sides.
The backdrop of the upcoming visit is a rising feeling in Japan that the United States is in serious economic trouble because of its own failings, especially the Reagan-Bush years' practice of piling up huge budget deficits that have depressed the rate of savings and investment necessary to make American products competitive on world markets. Japanese are growing increasingly impatient with American demands, and their statements are increasingly seen by Americans as either negative or patronizing.
The Japanese newspapers these days are filled with stories about "G.M. Shock," for example -- the widespread layoffs of America's biggest automobile manufacturer, seen in Tokyo no less than Washington as the result of Japanese competition. "G.M. is like the Stars and Stripes to the United States," Mr. Miyazawa told the Japanese business leaders. "So it comes as a great shock to Americans that G.M. has been defeated by Japanese cars."
Comments like these, intended as reflecting Japanese sympathy, may be less than reassuring to Americans, which is why the White House seems to be nervous that the trip not send Mr. Bush's popularity ratings skidding even further. If the President's penchant for overseas travels is regarded by many Americans as a diversion from pressing domestic problems, many also know that a trip to Japan might be crucial to American hopes for reviving the economy. All the more reason why Mr. Bush will be under pressure to deliver.
Mr. Miyazawa is less and less in a position to do so, however. His two months in office have been filled with nothing but headaches and defeats. Virtually every major legislative initiative of the ruling party -- political reform, a proposal to send Japanese troops abroad as part of United Nations peacekeeping forces, a measure to apologize for World War II -- has been trounced. The only thing sure to be enacted is some kind of tax increase to counteract Japan's widening budget deficit, hardly a happy prospect in an election year.
The Prime Minister, increasingly seen as captain of a rudderless ship in which rival party kingpins are not eager for him to succeed, thus has little latitude to give Mr. Bush a New Year's present. There is talk of a few small concessions, such as changing a few regulations to make it easier for Japan to import automobiles and auto parts. And planning for the Bush trip has emphasized symbols of friendship, including a tennis game between the President and Emperor Akihito. But in the heat of a Presidential election year, even the symbols may be derided by an American electorate looking for something more tangible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BUDGETS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; WEISMAN, STEVEN R GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



959 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: The Sense of Triumph Fades, Uncertainty and Unease Grow

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR the United States, 1991 began with victory in the brief, vivid war in the Persian Gulf, and it ended with victory in the long, convoluted struggle to contain Communism. Congratulating himself, his predecessors and the American people in a Christmas Eve homily, President Bush said success had been won by the "millions of Americans who supported their country and a strong defense under nine Presidents."
But the twin triumphs of the old year, however splendid, offer no guarantee of stability in the new. 
 Many times in the past, the United States has lived in an uncertain or even inchoate world, without the oddly reassuring balance of terror represented by the cold war. Most recently, it did so between 1945 and 1950, when confrontation with the Soviet Union was not yet complete. But the world was a far more loosely linked place then than it is now, in our era of global communication, transportation, competition and culture high and low.
Can the United States lead again? Can it find the answers posed by these last years of what Henry Luce and others were pleased to call the American Century? Is there another Dean Acheson in the wings, ready to help in the recreation of world order? And if there is, can the United States rebuild the economic underpinning that is needed to make its diplomacy stick?
Few would have asked such questions last March, but many ask them now.
The smashing victory over Iraq, with its demonstration of the technological legerdemain of American weapons, proved to be incomplete. Now that the parades have passed and the bunting has come down, there is a pervasive sense of tasks left undone. The United States organized a coalition of extraordinary breadth to savage Saddam Hussein's undertrained and ill-led armies, but the Iraqi dictator remains in power, the Kurds remain vulnerable and while the window for peace in the Middle East remains open, it is only just so.
The Israelis and their Arab neighbors, the Palestinians, Jordanians, Syrians and Lebanese, seem tantalizingly close to real negotiations, but despite the mighty labors of Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, the peace talks have not yet got down to real business. The promise of Madrid has faded, with the Israelis and Palestinians sitting on a couch in a State Department hallway, unable even to compromise enough to move into a proper conference room.
A year ago, the conquest of Kuwait and what to do about it seemed a question of utmost urgency; now it seems long ago and beside the point. Not only did President Bush's bold action fail to bring stability to the region; it also failed to conclusively define his own political fortunes, driving his popularity to improbable highs from which it has descended with a thump.
As Mr. Bush reflected last week on the fall of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, a great man as surely overtaken by events as Wilson after World War I and Churchill after World War II, he had cause to reflect as well on the increasing fragmentation of power in the world. The paradox of the hour is an American superpower unchallenged for overall supremacy but unable to impose its will.
Washington would have preferred to see Mr. Gorbachev stay in power, not only out of sentiment but also because it wanted the central authority in Moscow that has evaporated along with Mr. Gorbachev's power.
Everything -- keeping track of nuclear weapons, providing economic aid, negotiating treaties, even training diplomats -- will be much more complicated now. Many of the Administration's senior officials worry about the long-term reliability of Boris N. Yeltsin, the man who now has his finger on the nuclear button, and most of them are unsure how much the United States can or should do to help him.
 
Euphoria Is Gone
 All agree that economic collapse in Russia and the other republics could easily beget political chaos. As in the case of the Persian Gulf war, the giddy delight that Americans felt after the failure last summer of the Moscow coup seems remote and irrelevant.
The fighting in Georgia is obviously beyond the reach of the United States, as is the fighting in Yugoslavia. The civil war in the Balkans, where so many broader conflicts have started in centuries past, has also demonstrated the feebleness of Europe's efforts to police its own backyard. At the very moment the European Community was voting at Maastricht to move toward greater political and economic unity, it failed a key military and diplomatic test.
 
Europe as a Rival
 "We seem to be better at making business than making peace," said an abashed European diplomat in Washington, as Germany recognized Croatia and Slovenia against the wishes of the United States, the United Nations and many of its European partners, and went its own way on interest rates too.
One of the real dilemmas facing policy makers here is how to shape new relations with European institutions, including the community and NATO, at a time when Europe is a rival in a way it has not been since World War II. President Bush has spoken again and again about a new world order, and has rejoiced when the world has embraced American values, but he and his aides have formulated few specific answers.
If the increasing economic muscle of Europe is a cause for concern at the White House, the continuing power of Japan is even more disturbing to a President who wants desperately to maintain a free-market system. With the American economy in a shambles, George Bush's first big event of 1992 has been converted from a foreign-policy exercise into a piece of domestic politics; the aim of his trip to the Pacific, starting this week, is now officially stated as the creation of more jobs at home by forcing the Japanese to drop the barriers to American products that the President accuses them of building.
Japanese officials from Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa on down have already made it clear that they have no intention of backing down to the kind of challenge Mr. Bush and his coterie of business executives intend to pose. There is little reason for them to make more than token concessions, given American economic weakness and their own relative strength.
But the President, accused all across the country of paying too much attention to foreign policy and too little to domestic matters, knows that he must make the effort. There is a mood of uncertainty in the land, verging in some areas on desperation. Jobs are hard to come by, even for honors graduates of good universities; government aid programs have been cut back, and institutions from hospitals to school systems to jails to museums are struggling to keep afloat somehow.
And nowhere is the pain greater and the resultant political sentiment more volatile than in New Hampshire, where President Bush will face the voters, along with his conservative rival, Patrick J. Buchanan, in only 50 days.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (88%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (88%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



960 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The New American Family: Reality Is Wearing the Pants

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
FOR much of the last 25 years, the changing shape of the American family has been a cultural war zone. Conservatives bemoaned it. Trend spotters sold it. Feminists celebrated it. But recently the rate of change has slowed, the rhetoric seems to have subsided and a period of reassessment may have begun.
For most Americans the model of a father at work and a mother at home has been relegated to history. Economic reality, if nothing else, is rapidly making it an antique, rather than an icon that must be defended. 
 What is a family? It's still often traditional, although two working parents has become the norm. Census Bureau data show that the number of households in which a married couple lived with young children was 26 percent of the total in 1990, down from 40 percent in 1970. It's also single mothers, single fathers and childless couples. And sometimes a family is post-empty nest, with parents helping their adult children by taking them back in. And an increasing number of people, the single households, aren't in families at all. The nuclear family, once represented on television by the morality of "Leave It to Beaver," has gone to the burlesque of "Married . . . With Children."
"People grew up with one set of norms and values and now they are living another," said Arlene Skolnick, a research psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley. "As a result we have a tremendous amount of ambivalence. People believe in the family quite firmly, but they do not want to, or they are not able, to go back to the old patterns of family life."
But many trend lines in the data are flattening out. For example, the average family size dropped from 3.58 people in 1970 to 3.29 people in 1980, but since 1988 the figure has held at about 3.17. Most couples may have given up on big families but not on families altogether. Even in the 1980's, while President Reagan was eulogizing the American family as a victim of moral decay, the situation was stabilizing. The number of divorced mothers increased at an average rate of 9 percent a year in the 1970's, but the Census Bureau reports that it has increased by only 1.6 percent annually since 1980.
The American family underwent profound changes as the children of the baby boom became adults, but now, for the most part, the changes seem to be in place.
"In a real sense we are beginning a post-ideological discussion of the family," said Stephen Klineberg, a professor of sociology at Rice University in Houston.
Starting with the sexual revolution of the 1960's and continuing through the exaltation of "family values" in the 1980's, change in the American household was often an underlying issue in debates over topics as varied as premarital sex and the role of women in the work force.
Now, said Professor Klineberg, "We are no longer talking in terms of values and ideology because there is a sense that the positions on both sides were counterproductive. Increasingly we are recognizing families as they are, looking at their problems and deciding what will work. It is a more practical discussion."
In Washington this nascent development is evident in policy discussions over items like day care, family leave, middle-class tax cuts and income tax exemptions for dependents. There are growing demands for programs that address differing needs of families, based on their race, class and even life style, and this is reflected in the Presidential campaign. Once a Republican issue, the defense of family is getting attention from the Democratic contenders. One of them, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, offers a program that includes measures to enforce child support payments. While partisan differences still arise, they often focus on budget issues or the role of Government rather than on a cultural clash over what the family should be.
In a survey designed to measure the attitudes of baby boomers, now between 26 and 45 years old, the Gallup Poll reported last April that 93 percent of the respondents said family life was "very important" to them. But, looking at the way they themselves were brought up, the boomers showed considerable ambivalence. Some 73 percent said they expected to have "a happier family life" than their parents did.
In her book on the American family, "Embattled Paradise," Ms. Skolnick argues that much of the recent debate over the family has been misguided because it uses the stereotypical white, middle-class family of the 1950's as a point of departure for either praise or criticism of subsequent changes.
Ms. Skolnick shows how the 1950's were a unique interlude of domestic stability in a century of steady evolution in sexual mores and family structures. And, once the recent changes in the family are viewed as part of a historical continuum, the changing status of women emerges as the major ongoing dynamic from the end of the Victorian era until now.
The challenge to male dominance and the definition of new female roles were still very much works-in-progress when most Americans saw their standard of living begin to stagnate in the 1980's. Before the social and cultural adjustments could be completed, economic factors rendered the working mother a fait accompli.
"People began focusing on the economy as a force that is really shaping the family, and this too has led to frustration and ambivalence," Ms. Skolnick said.
The mixed emotions were evident in a public opinion survey on family values conducted this year for the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company. About two-thirds of the survey respondents said they were "very" or "extremely" satisfied with their own family life, but an almost equal number said that across the country "family values have grown weaker." Dr. Rebecca Shahmoon Shanok, a psychologist at the Child Development Center in New York City and a consultant for the study, said this "I'm O.K., you're not" phenomenon reflected a basic tension in the American family.
"People believe in what they are doing and they are devoted to their families," she said, "but they know they are strung out to the limit. They have seen friends who have not been able to keep their families together, who have been broken up by the effects of isolation and economic difficulties." Part of the ambivalence, Dr. Shanok believes, reflects "a lack of consensus over what it is that society should do to help the family."
As a practical matter, she notes that there are now many different kinds of families and that the needs of a divorced mother are far different than those of a young couple putting off childbearing. And when both parents work, the needs of any single family will change as its children reach different ages, relying on day care at one point and on after-school programs a few years later.
"People are saying that they need options," Dr. Shanok said. "They're saying that they want to raise families but that they need to feel they can exercise choices and that society will reflect the fact that they are making those choices."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Family portraits, redefined" shows changes in family structure from '70 to '90 (Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; LIFE STYLES; CENSUS; SINGLE PERSONS SINGLE PARENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CENSUS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); PARENTS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



961 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Beeville Journal;
There's a Stranger in the Bar, But He's Only Packing a Pen

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEEVILLE, Tex., Dec. 28

 BODY:
The tall, lanky Texan strode into the dance hall. He leaned up against the bar and ordered a pitcher of beer. He surveyed the crowd with his ice-blue eyes.
"You live around here?" he asked some of the young women who stood nearby gaping at his posse of heavily armed men. 
 Spying a woman in a down jacket and skin-tight jeans, he put his arm around her and purred, "You and me, alone at last."
But it was clear from his tweed sports jacket and preppy shirt and his Miller Lite that this mysterious stranger was no ordinary ranch hand. He was America's favorite urban cowboy, the man who the comedian Mark Russell once said likes to swig Perrier around the campfire.
George Bush, good ol' boy, is back in town.
 
In Search of Common Touch

In the 1988 Presidential campaign, Mr. Bush's political deputy, Lee Atwater, made the Vice President shed his striped-cloth watchband and other preppy accessories and accentuate his pork rinds and Oak Ridge Boys tapes. As President, Mr. Bush put the watchband back on and spent more time on the golf course than in the bowling alley.
But as the 1992 elections approach, Mr. Bush finds himself trying hard once again to evoke the common touch, to prove that he is sensitive to the worries of average Americans.
The just-plain-folks touches are as genuine to Mr. Bush's persona as the Andover-and-Yale stylings. But his attempts to bring them out from his lofty perch as President, especially a President who is campaigning for re-election, sometimes seem jarring, as when he stopped off Friday night at the Texas Grand Dance Hall.
Mr. Bush had been attending the Chamber of Commerce barbecue in Beeville, where he is hunting this weekend at his friend Will Farish's Lazy F Ranch. He arrived at the dance hall at 8:10 P.M., well before the country band The Edge tuned up its steel guitars, so he did not get to take a spin around the floor with any of the locals.
Instead, he spent his time signing napkins and camouflage hunting caps, making small talk and joking with the patrons.
"Are you customers or part of the action?" he asked some people who seemed to be associated with the band.
To a child who walked up with her parents, Mr. Bush said: "Have you had a nice Christmas? Get any one special thing? A doll?" The girl replied that she got a pair of skates, and the President wished the family a happy new year.
Mr. Bush did drink one mug of beer. "Al, you gonna have a draft?" he said to his friend, Senator Alan K. Simpson.
The Republican from Wyoming ordered a chablis.
Mr. Bush, who does everything on the run, stayed only about 15 minutes before sweeping out of the dance hall. "We'd love to hear the band, but I told Barbara I was going to bed early tonight," he told some of the patrons.
The Secret Service seemed relieved that there was no mechanical bull in sight.
For the President, getting out of Washington is always a relief. He gets to indulge his favorite pastimes, in this case hunting quail with Mr. Simpson and Mr. Farish on the Texan's 10,000-acre ranch in Bee County.
The Presidential hunting party bagged 19 birds in their first outing on Saturday, and the White House heatedly denied accusations from an anti-hunting group, the Fund for Animals, that the birds had been raised in pens for this purpose and released into the wild so the Commander in Chief could shoot them.
Visiting a town like Beeville, 48 miles northwest of Corpus Christi, is also supposed to give him a break from the political heat back in Washington. When Mr. Bush arrived on Friday, he was greeted with headlines in The Corpus Christi Caller-Times, the biggest newspaper in the area, about good economic statistics.
Today, The Caller-Times ran a large color photograph of Mr. Bush speaking to the Beeville barbecue with an enormous American flag behind him and a story about his assurances that the town would recover from the closing of the Chase Field Naval Air Station, its principal employer.
But those assurances fell flat on Friday when Mr. Bush offered them to the barbecue crowd of some 3,000. "We'll do everything that we possibly can to help Beeville make the tough transition to this post-cold war world that we're living in," he said.
You could have heard a lasso drop.
"Keep in mind that Chase Field is in the process of closing down," William Cason, the band director at A. C. Jones High School, said later. "There's going to be some tension in the community right now about the Federal Government."
Some in the audience said they liked Mr. Bush and admired his record in war and diplomacy, but were less certain about his handling of economic problems.
"I don't feel that confident," said Leigh Ann Whitenton, whose husband, Pat, plays drums for "Nightrider," the band that played at the barbecue. "I don't think he's going to do anything different than he's done so far."
Economic issues seem to be dominating the 1992 elections so far, a message that was clear in this morning's Caller-Times, which included an article quoting residents who had been invited to phone in messages to Mr. Bush.
Some were friendly. "Have a good hunt this weekend and relax," said one. "Keep up the good work and hang in there," said another.
But others were pointed.
"You were elected President of the United States, not leader of the world."
And others made clear that the perception that Mr. Bush is too detached from ordinary Americans is indeed a political problem.
"Get off your high horse and get down to the people's level, not the rich man's level, but the people's level and find out what they think," said one caller.
And then there was the problem that Mr. Bush has dealt with since he picked Dan Quayle as his running mate in 1988. "Since you bit the bullet and got rid of John Sununu, you should get rid of Quayle," was one newspaper reader's advice.
President Bush says he is not asking for a sympathy vote, even if it sometimes sounds like that.
On Friday night, as he spoke from a stage adorned with stuffed bobcats, fox, turkey and quail, he told Beeville residents that he deserved to be re-elected President because he has worked hard.
"I'm doing my level best," he said. "I'm absolutely confident that this country's going to turn around and this economy will be back on track. And I am absolutely confident that you, the American people, want me to continue to lead, to have America be the leader around the world."
But, he said: "Don't feel sorry for the Bushes -- we love it. We feel privileged every single day that we live in that White House."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush having a beer Friday night in a bar in Beeville, Tex. With him were Will Farish, left, his host on a quail hunt, and Senator Alan K. Simpson. The woman at right was not identified. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEEVILLE (TEX) UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; HUNTING AND TRAPPING ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); WOMEN (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (69%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (61%); CHRISTMAS (60%); BOWLING CENTERS (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SIMPSON, ALAN K (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



962 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-11
 
BUSH'S TOUR BRINGS CONTROVERSY
As President Bush leaves on Monday for Australia and Asia, the good-will tour he planned has changed into a blunt sales pitch for American exports and jobs, causing anger and dismay in Japan. Page 1
 

EUROPE SEEKS TO CUT IMMIGRATION
The "fortress Europe" is already being built. But its walls are intended to keep out immigrants, not commodities. 1
 
AFTER THE SOVIET UNION, WHAT?
News Analysis: The 11 survivors of the former Soviet Union showed that they were good at destroying the old. Now is their chance to show if they can build something new. 10
President Yeltsin ordered agricultural land reform. 10
 
The Soviet collapse has meant little change in visa requirements. 10
 
BLOW TO THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY
The withdrawal of American forces from the Subic Bay naval base next year will close a chapter in the Philippines' turbulent relationship with its former colonial ruler, but it poses economic problems. 6
 
SABBATH CONTROVERSY IN ISRAEL
The question of when public buses can begin their Saturday-night runs has become the latest front in the dispute between Israel's religious and secular Jews. 7
 
ALGERIA IS NOT IRAN

News Analysis: The emergence of Islamic fundamentalism as the most powerful political force in Algeria differs in important ways from the voyage Iran took in that direction. 3
 
The vote in Algeria heartened fundamentalist Muslims elsewhere. 3
The Burmese military lambasted the jailed opposition leader. 6
 
Yugoslav troops again shelled the Croatian city of Karlovac. 9
 
NATIONAL 12-20
 
FRAUD IN WORKERS' COMPENSATION
For many workers, exaggerating or even lying about injuries or illness related to employment has become no more sinister than crossing the street against a red light. That attitude, and resulting false claims, are helping to push workers' compensation systems into crisis or even to the edge of collapse. 1
 
HAVE BIRD GUN, WILL TRAVEL
Beeville Journal: The tall, lanky Texan strode into the dance hall. He leaned up against the bar and ordered a pitcher of beer. He surveyed the crowd with his ice-blue eyes. Yep, America's favorite urban cowboy, the President of the United States, was back in town -- and once more acting like a candidate. 1
 
LEGACY OF A CHEMICAL SPILL
A riverside California town is gripped by arguments over health issues and its own future because of a devastating chemical spill. 12
 
POVERTY IN THE GOLDEN STATE
California continues to lure millions of poverty-stricken Americans and foreigners, even as many middle-class Californians are leaving the state. That disparity, in a deteriorating economy, has led to dire fiscal predictions and sweeping proposals by Governor Wilson to overhaul the welfare system. 20
 
EVICTIONS AT CHRISTMASTIME
For years, Milwaukee judges followed an informal policy of refusing to evict tenants around Christmas. That policy was abandoned this year, after the A.C.L.U., alerted by a landlord, suggested that it violated church-state separation.12evict
 
The Strategic Air Command is fading into history. 12
 
REGIONAl 21-26, 30
 
6 KILLED IN CITY COLLEGE RIOT
A surging crowd at a charity basketball game at City College last night crushed at least six people to death and seriously injured at least eighteen others. The crush occurred as an estimated 5,000 young people lined up to enter the game in Jerimiah T. Mahoney hall on the City College campus in Manhattan. 1
 
'WEEPING' ICON IS RETURNED
A painting believed to have miraculous powers was returned to the Queens church from which it had been taken at gunpoint on Monday. The robbers had kept its gold frame and jewels, but members of the church wept with joy to have back their patron saint. 1
 
OFF-DUTY OFFICER IS KILLED
A 27-year-old officer driving home with friends was shot and killed when he intervened in a robbery at a midtown Manhattan bank. 21
 
Obituaries 28
 
Louis Lowell Bennett, a former dean at Baruch College
 
Television/Radio 43
 
Campus Life 32-35
 
Neediest Cases 24
 
Life Style 37
 
Fashion 38-39
 
Pastimes 44-45
 
Weddings 40-42

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cease-fire brings Georgian president from his bunker. 10 (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ALGERIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); MYANMAR (79%); CROATIA (79%); GEORGIA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ALGERIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); MYANMAR (79%); CROATIA (79%); GEORGIA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (68%); NAVIES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); EVICTION (60%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



963 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3855 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Health: Employee Fraud - A special report.;
Vast Amount of Fraud Discovered In Workers' Compensation System

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Fraud and exaggerated claims are driving up the cost of workers' compensation insurance by billions of dollars a year, a variety of experts say, and have become a significant though still largely unrecognized factor in the skyrocketing cost of health care.
This conclusion has been reached by regulators and law-enforcement officials in several states who are looking into the forces behind the rising costs and by insurance officials who have begun investigations of questionable claims. It is suggested, too, by a number of studies. 
 To many workers, these authorities say, lying about injuries or illness related to work has become no more sinister than crossing the street against a red light. That attitude and the resulting false claims are helping to push workers' compensation systems in some states into crisis or even to the edge of collapse.
 
Cheating in 20% of Claims
 Although other factors are also contributing to the $60 billion paid out by employers to public and private insurers for workers' compensation each year, officials and insurance companies in Oregon, California, New Jersey and other states say that as much as 20 percent or more of claims may involve cheating. They say it is costing legitimately injured workers many of the benefits they deserve.
"We've found workers' compensation is riddled with fraud," said Stan Long, the president and chief executive of SAIF, the state-owned workers' compensation insurer in Oregon, which says it has uncovered fraud in one of every four claims. "If you run a system where you give money to everybody who asks, you are going to get a lot of people asking for money."
Fraud by employers is also increasingly being recognized as a problem in workers' compensation, as is widespread abuse by doctors and lawyers. But experts say cheating by individuals illustrates a larger phenomenon in American society that government and insurance companies have often ignored: the belief that cheating on insurance is acceptable because the system always seemed to have endless amounts of money to pay for it. They say that is an attitude the nation can no longer afford.
In the last decade the costs of the insurance programs that care for workers injured on the job in the 50 states have grown more than 150 percent -- or 50 percent faster than the cost of health care over all.
In more than a dozen states where employers have been hit by double-digit premium increases, officials say rising workers' compensation costs have devastated small companies and sapped the competitiveness of entire industries. In some states, like Maine and Rhode Island, where costs have risen more than 50 percent a year, insurance companies are abandoning programs as unprofitable.
For years experts have attributed the increasing cost of workers' compensation to growing litigation, the rising price of medical care in general and the expanded coverage and benefits awarded by states. But until now insurers, government agencies, employers and social scientists have rarely studied how much fraud may also be involved.
Employers have often been timid in challenging workers' compensation claims they deemed dubious, many executives say, partly out of fear of being seen as attacking vulnerable workers and partly because fraud is hard to prove. In addition, they say, insurance companies often discourage investigations.
 
A Culture of Fraud
 Recently, however, a small, but growing number of government officials and insurance companies have begun to look into the question. They say they are finding that in some states at least, workers' compensation has nurtured a culture of fraud, in which workers regularly lie without fear or shame.
In Los Angeles, pitchmen working for doctors and lawyers swarm the sidewalks outside unemployment offices, openly telling passers-by they can win thousands of dollars in workers' compensation benefits simply by filing phony claims.
In Pittsburgh, the city reported a 15 percent drop in workers' compensation claims this year after it televised videos taken by hidden cameras of supposedly injured police officers and firefighters working at second jobs, playing basketball and fixing roofs.
"It is socially acceptable to exaggerate, or even lie, to insurance companies and workers' compensation agencies," said Douglas F. Stevenson, executive director of the national council of self-insurers, a trade association of large corporations. "Such conduct has become so institutionalized that it no longer shocks our sense of morality."
Government and private leaders in some states, however, say the type of fraud reported in California, Oregon, Colorado, New Jersey and elsewhere is rare in their states.
Labor leaders insist that the vast majority of workers are honest. And some insurance industry spokesmen say individuals are often not the ones to blame. "The system puts impossible pressure on people," said Eric Oxfeld, senior counsel for the American Insurance Association, an industry trade group. "An attorney says you can go back to work now and get nothing or you can go back in a month and get thousands of dollars. I don't think it is fair to fault people when the system offers that kind of incentive."
 
Easy Money
Blatant Abuse In California
 "Say you get headaches, or backaches, or you get bad dreams," said Alexi Chau, one of more than a dozen men and women milling outside the entrances of the state unemployment office on Broadway in downtown Los Angeles. "You've got to sue your boss. You can get money."
Up and down the block, recruiters plied their trade on the sunny sidewalk one day this month. Some offered business cards and glossy fliers to passers-by. Others invited potential customers to sit on folding chairs and hear the rich rewards of the workers' compensation system explained.
A reporter simply asked Mr. Chau for one of his business cards. Mr. Chau responded with a two-minute discourse on how the system works: He could collect $350 a week, Mr. Chau said, if he agreed to meet a doctor and a lawyer immediately. The doctor, Mr. Chau said, would find that he was suffering from back and neck pain caused by work.
Although the reporter never mentioned anything about having health problems, Mr. Chau told him he would receive two therapy sessions a week for four months. After two months of treatment, Mr. Chau promised that the doctor would help him to obtain a city pass for the disabled that would let him ride municipal buses free.
As long as the patient agrees to the diagnosis, Mr. Chau said, no one can disprove it.
"Don't worry about doctor and lawyer bills," he said. "Insurance pays for it all."
When later asked by the reporter if he knew he was breaking the law, Mr. Chau said that he did, but that he was planning to leave the business. He said he had been paid $200 for each successful referral.
 
Protected From Economic Harm
 In California, as in other states, workers' compensation is a system of insurance that reimburses employees for the economic harm from injuries and illness caused by the job. In some states the insurance is sold by private companies, in others by public agencies, and in many states by both.
Workers are compensated for lost wages, medical bills, in some states job retraining, and in cases of death, benefits for their families. In most states, the law requires employers to insure all workers and pay the premiums for 100 percent of their benefits.
California has seen a threefold rise in workers' compensation payments in the last decade, to more than $10 billion. In the highest-risk industries, employers are now required to pay premiums of more than $5,000 for each worker.
Part of the high costs comes from real and debilitating diseases that science has linked to the workplace only in recent years, including asbestosis, hearing loss, certain types of cancer and carpal tunnel syndrome, an affliction of people who use computers.
John F. Henning, head officer of the California Labor Federation, A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that although the majority of workers file honest claims, the system does encourage abuse. "There are shyster attorneys who seduce workers to make false claims of stress," he said.
In Southern California, newspapers and television stations are flooded with advertisements from clinics and lawyers. One clinic, Boulevard Health Services in Los Angeles, even offered to patients who attend 30 therapy sessions free trips for two to Las Vegas, Nev., "The Fun Capital of the World."
But until recently, officials and insurance companies in California rarely spoke about workers' compensation fraud. Of the 2,500 cases investigated by the State Department of Insurance's fraud unit in its 12-year history, only 49 cases involved workers' compensation and only 5 were prosecuted.
Lori Kammerer, the managing director of Californians for Compensation Reform, an organization of employers, said that when businesses complained to their insurance companies about workers lying or inflating claims, they were often told it would cost more to fight such claims than pay them.
One event that did seem to bring about a change in official attitudes was a news report broadcast on May 19 by KCBS-TV in Los Angeles. A reporter, Harvey Levin, posed as an unemployed data processor and was taken by a recruiter outside an unemployment office to the offices of lawyers and doctors who specialized in workers' compensation cases. Photographed by a hidden video camera, the reporter told interviewers at the law firm, the Office of Administrative Law on Wilshire Boulevard, that he was not sick. But the firm filed forms that described him as suffering from severe abdominal pain, stiff and sore neck, lower-back pain, nervousness, dizziness, blurred vision and too much stress on the job. The law firm referred him to a medical office that charged $1,195 for initial consultations.
As a result of the broadcast and the outcry from employers, the State Department of Insurance and the Los Angeles District Attorney have begun investigating workers' compensation fraud. The insurance department founded an investigative unit this fall solely devoted to the matter and it now estimates that fraud accounts for more than 20 percent of the dollars paid out.
 
'Fraud Is Out of Control'
 "We are just finding out that fraud is out of control in California's workers' compensation system," said Albert H. Mackensie, a deputy in the Los Angeles District Attorney's office. "Workers' comp has been a license to steal here, and there has not been a law enforcement or police agency in place to investigate it."
Several insurance companies in California have also begun aggressively investigating these cases.
The Zenith Insurance Company of Woodland Hills has asserted that one clinic certified four restaurant workers as totally unable to work and deserving of thousands of dollars in benefits because of what it described as stress and mistreatment by the restaurant's management. At the time of their medical examinations, however, the company asserted in Federal court papers that the four men were fully employed at a nearby restaurant.
The clinic, American Psychometric Consultants, billed the insurance company for 18.1 hours of psychological testing for each of the four workers in one day, though the office was said to be open only nine hours a day.
A lawyer representing the clinic, Richard K. Simon, disputed Zenith's charges, saying his client was a reputable organization that had neither violated the law nor professional standards. Mr. Simon said he would ask the court to dismiss the case.
Vincent Tokatlian, a Los Angeles chiropractor who worked at another clinic for six months, said he was disturbed by the fact that many patients did not even pretend to want to be treated. They asked to sign the forms and leave.
"They were reluctant to spend more than three minutes," he said. "There would just be a smile or a wink but never any sign of shame."
 
Bad Attitudes
No Reluctance About Cheating
 Geoffry Burnham, a doctor's assistant who has reviewed more than 2,500 workers' compensation claims for Connecticut employers, says he is startled at how blatant cheating has become.
Workers under the age of 40, Mr. Burnham said, often try to charge the system for whatever they can get in a striking reversal of the strong work ethic of an older generation of workers. The younger workers, he said, exaggerate injuries, file for injuries that happened off the job or for injuries that never happened at all.
In one case, Mr. Burnham said he recalled attending a karate class where he spotted an employee of General Dynamics's Electric Boat division in New London, a company where Mr. Burnham worked for several years.
For three years the employee missed work three afternoons a week for medical treatments as a result of a bruise he had sustained from a fall in the snow. But as a regular karate student, Mr. Burnham said, the worker was kicked, punched or thrown across a mat two nights a week. But when confronted, Mr. Burnham said, the worker was neither embarrassed nor concerned that he had been caught.
By contrast, Mr. Burnham recalled the case of a 60-year-old metal pattern maker who came to Electric Boat's medical office with hands that had been gnarled by years of heavy labor. He could no longer work. More typical of workers of that generation, Mr. Burnham said, the pattern maker was not interested in his workers' compensation benefits. He wanted surgery that would get him back to work as quickly as possible.
"What scares me is what is happening to the American work ethic," he said.
Eugene Tish, chief operating officer at the Schuler Corporation of Salem, Ore., said his company, too, had found that disability claims primarily involved younger employees, who file claims for injuries sustained on their own time. "What do you call it if you find that 30 of your claims appear in the first 15 minutes of Monday morning?" Mr. Tish asked.
Acceptance of cheating on insurance in general was found to be surprisingly widespread by a study on auto insurance released last month by the Roper Organization.
Nearly one in three Americans said it was usually acceptable to get lower premiums by understating the numbers of miles they drive each year, according to the study, which conducted face-to-face interviews in 1,987 households. The study found 23 percent said it was acceptable to pad claims.
"The attitudes revealed in this survey indicate that cheating and misrepresentation have become serious," said Donald Seagraves, the executive director of the Insurance Research Council, an industry group.
Officials in some states say, nonetheless, that deceit and fraud are not a significant problem in workers' compensation claims.
In New York, officials say fraud does not account for more than a fraction of claims, which rose 39 percent in the last two years. Officials in Illinois, where premiums will rise 9 percent next year, agree.
But in some other states, officials are reaching different conclusions.
Oregon officials say they did not see employee fraud as a big problem until two years ago, when the state-owned workers' compensation insurer, the State Accident Insurance Fund, or SAIF, began an intensive and controversial crackdown.
As a result of the crackdown and other changes, premiums have dropped 23 percent since 1990 -- after years of double-digit increases. SAIF executives now say that 37 percent of claims they investigated did not deserve to be paid and that they believe 25 percent of all claims were fraudulent.
Among the more than 200 fraud cases the company has brought to district attorneys and professional boards for action was the case of a former deputy sheriff, Jerry A. Lea, who injured his leg and finger on the job in 1982 and collected $160,000 over seven years. Mr. Lea said he was almost totally incapacitated and appeared at hearings in a back brace, a neck brace and with a cane.
After the company's surveillance team videotaped him stacking wood and washing his car in his backyard, Mr. Lea was sentenced to 90 days in the county jail.
In two other cases, workers who claimed to be fully incapacitated were taped climbing into their race cars at stock car races.
 
Cheating by Chiropractors
 Among the 82 chiropractors charged in Oregon, investigators said, several openly counseled patients on how to cheat the system. On March 2, 1990, Dennis L. Campbell, a chiropractor in Salem, told an undercover investigator complaining of an injury -- in a conversation secretly taped by the company's fraud unit -- that there would be compensation if the injury occurred on the job.
"If this was a workman's comp, they'd pick up the tab," the chiropractor said.
"I know," the undercover investigator said.
"Did you hurt yourself at work?" Dr. Campbell asked.
"No," the investigator replied.
"Did you hurt yourself at work?" Dr. Campbell again asked.
"No," the investigator again said.
"Did you hurt yourself at work?" Dr. Campbell asked a third time.
"Yeah, I did," the investigator said.
"Yeah, you did," Dr. Campbell said. "How did you do that?"
The doctor received 60 days in jail.
In Pittsburgh, where officials showed the videos of supposedly injured workers in seemingly fine health, the city has started a so-called safety lottery. Workers are now eligible to win $200 if they go one month without claiming an injury. "We make the lame well," said Ben Hayllar, the director of finance of the city.
In Massachusetts, the office of Gov. William F. Weld estimates that fraud accounts for more than $400 milllion ot the $3 billion paid out in claims. In New Jersey, the director of the insurance department's fraud division, Louis Parisi, said fraud or abuse in his state could account for some of the costs in 25 percent of workers' compensation claims.
In Colorado, a study for employers found that as much as 30 percent of workers' compensation claims involved fraud or exaggeration, including outright faking and stretching recuperation periods, said Michael D. DeWitt, executive vice president of Avert, a consulting company in Fort Collins.
Authorities in Florida, Texas and other states say that evidence is rising of employers who are defrauding the system by lying about the number of employees or by setting up deceptive lease-back agreements to "lease" their workers to other companies to reduce their premiums. In many cases, when workers are injured they find they have no coverage at all.
 
Other Problems
Costs Growing At a Rapid Pace
 Fraudulent claims and abuse are by no means the only the problems afflicting workers' compensation systems.
The oldest social program resulting from a compact between labor and management, workers' compensation was begun in the United States at the turn of the century to blunt the often savage health dangers facing workers.
By the late 1960's, however, benefits to injured workers were often regarded as so low that they failed to meet the needs of the injured and their families. In 1972, a Presidential commission in the Nixon Administration recommended that states sharply raise benefits. Among other recommendations adopted by most states was one to give employees unable to work a minimum of two-thirds of their gross salaries before they were injured or 80 percent of their net pay -- tax free.
Since then, the total costs of workers' compensation have soared. The average premium that an employer pays for an employee has jumped to more than $500 today from the $92 it was 20 years ago. The number of claims doubled in the 1980's and the cost of claims during that time rose by 154 percent.
Meanwhile, lost workdays attributed to on-the-job injuries doubled, to more than 60 million in 1989 from 30 million in 1975 -- even as the economy moved from factory work to service jobs and the increase in industrial accidents remained flat. Among the states with systems in crisis are Maine, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Louisiana and Florida.
In part, the rise in costs is a result of an increase in benefits, which encourages more people to use the system. Studies show that for every 10 percent increase in the value of benefits, workers' compensation systems pay out 15 percent more money.
Workers' compensation costs have also been driven up by price of medical care and increasing litigation. In Illinois, litigation expenses now amount to 14 percent of all the dollars paid out in claims in disputes that may not involve fraud at all but legitimate disagreements.
 
Medical Bills Vary Greatly
 One study published by the Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry in 1990 found that the same treatments for back injuries and sprains cost more than twice as much when charged to workers' compensation than to Blue Cross and lasted longer. Treatment for back disorders on average cost $308 when charged to workers' compensation, compared with $132 to Blue Cross, and lasted 21 days, compared with 10 days. For sprains the difference was even more striking: $167 for eight days under workers' comp; $84 and one day under Blue Cross. By comparison, the treatments for fractures, which leave less to discretion, were about the same.
Unlike people with ordinary health-insurance, like Blue Cross, patients in the workers' compensation system pay no deductible and no part of the bills, giving the patients no incentive to turn down tests or treatments. In addition, few workers' compensation systems have cost-containment programs like managed care, intended to prevent unneeded or overly expensive treatments.
As a result, Orin Kramer, an economist in Princeton, N.J., said, workers who have limited health insurance or none at all, and medical professionals who have lost profits to cost-containment programs, often turn to workers' compensation. By linking treatment to a problem on the job, both can be sure employers will pay 100 percent of the bill.
A new study of more than 3,000 Boeing company workers by Dr. Stanley Bigos of the University of Washington found that although many workers suffer some sort of back pain, those most likely to file claims are not necessarily the most debilitated, but those most disatisfied with their jobs. While the greatest risk of back symptoms was among workers ages 30 to 40, the study found, the greatest incidence of back injury claims, was among workers ages 20 to 25.
Another 1990 study, published by the nonprofit Workers' Compensation Research Institute in Cambridge, Mass., found that workers' compensation claims climb in recessions and drop as employment rises. Richard B. Victor, the institute's executive director, said people might underuse workers' compensation in good times -- or, use it to replace lost wages and job benefits in hard times.
"A lot of the problem goes unseen because nobody is looking," said Mr. Parisi of the New Jersey Insurance Department. "But we know that many people out there think workers' compensation is a bargain, and they are hitting the system for as much as they can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "You've got to sue your boss," said Alexi Chau, center, a recruiter for a workers' compensation doctor and lawyer, plying his trade near a state unemployment office in Los Angeles. "Don't worry about doctor and lawyer bills," he said. "Insurance pays for it all." (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times) (pg. 14)
 
Graph: "Higher Charges for Medical Treatment" shows medical charges and days of treatment for different injuries (Source: Worker's Compensation Research Institute) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION INSURANCE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH WORKERS COMPENSATION (94%); INSURANCE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (79%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



964 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: The Bushes: Low-Tax Texans

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
The approach of an election year, in a recession that has meant increases in state and local taxes for many Americans, has stirred up an old controversy that has dogged George Bush for a decade.
The issue is the place the President calls home. And the emphasis this time is on the tax savings it generates. 
 Though he lives at the White House most of the time, and spends his vacations at the family estate in Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. Bush has declared his legal residence to be Texas, where he owns no home but rents a hotel suite for the few nights a year that he and his wife, Barbara, sleep there.
Texas has no personal income or capital gains taxes. Thus the Bushes have avoided what many Americans could not, as Mr. Bush and Ronald Reagan shifted health-care and environmental expenses onto the states: an ever-higher tax rate.
The Bushes also enjoy, as do Congressmen and Presidential appointees who maintain homes outside Washington, an exemption from the District of Columbia's 9.5 percent income tax. Thus, while many Americans pay state taxes of as much as 12 percent, the Bushes paid less than 1 percent of their adjusted gross income in 1990 in state taxes, according to Money magazine.
An examination of the Bushes' tax returns in the magazine's January issue found their combined Federal, local and Social Security taxes to be 29.5 percent of their adjusted gross income. The typical American household with an adjusted income of $52,011, Money said, paid 37.7 percent.
The article, "How President Bush Cuts His Taxes," points out that the arrangement is legal and ethical.
When Mr. Bush became Vice President in 1981, he sold his home in Houston and bought the house in Kennebunkport. He tried to establish the Maine house as his principal residence, which would have allowed him to avoid paying Federal capital gains taxes on the sale of his Houston house.
But the Internal Revenue Service declared that his principal residence was actually the Vice President's mansion in Washington and forced him to pay nearly $200,000 in taxes and penalties on his Houston profits.
After that, Mr. Bush decided that his permanent residence would remain Texas, which requires for residency neither a home nor a minimum number of days spent in the state, merely a declaration that one intends to live there eventually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES, PERSONAL; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



965 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: 'Scrooge' Visits Tenants in Milwaukee

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Dec. 26

 BODY:
For the first time in years, Robert Johns, a Milwaukee County Sheriff's detective, spent the day after Christmas evicting people.
In his time in the department, he has evicted thousands of tenants for nonpayment of rent, but until this week evictions in the two weeks around Christmas were almost unheard of here. 
 County judges called the informal policy, which had been in effect with few interruptions for at least 30 years, a "Christmastime moratorium." Detective Johns, who has been cursed at, spat upon and hit in the face with a brick during his seven years with the eviction unit, called it a "cease-fire."
"Basically, we did it so we wouldn't look like a bunch of Scrooges," said Michael J. Barron, the former chief judge of the Milwaukee County Circuit Court. "There used to be some grumbling from landlords once in a while," but the moratorium stayed put, he said.
 
'No Secular Purpose'
 Then, earlier this year, a landlord wrote the American Civil Liberties Union office here complaining about the policy on the grounds that the moratorium "serves no secular purpose, and has the effect of promoting the religious celebration of Christmas."
The landlord added that "no similar rules prevent the eviction of Muslim tenants during the month of Ramadan, or the eviction of Jewish tenants during Passover."
Eunice Z. Edgar, the executive director of the Wisconsin A.C.L.U., said her office then wrote the current chief judge, Patrick T. Sheedy, outlining the landlord's complaints. A few weeks later, Judge Sheedy wrote back and said the judges had voted to end the moratorium.
"For years we used to defend it on the theory that there were more Christians than anyone else, that Christmas was a major holiday," Judge Sheedy said in an interview. "But legally, there's no defense for it, so we ended it."
 
'Off the Hook'
 Besides, Ms. Edgar said, the moratorium was little more than a Band-Aid on the deep wound of poverty and homelessness.
"It took the county off the hook of the responsibility of providing suitable housing alternatives for the poor during this time," she said. "It shouldn't necessarily just be Christmas that there is a moratorium on kicking people out of their homes. The moratorium should cover the entire winter and the costs should be borne by the county and not by individual businesses."
Tim Ballering, the vice president of the Apartment Association of Milwaukee, a group of rental property owners, agreed that the moratorium was a burden. "Quite a few of our members had more problems in December than in any other month," he said. "Some tenants took advantage of the moratorium and never paid their rent."
Several other cities also have informal moratoriums on evictions during the Christmas and New Year holidays, including Chicago, Boston, Cleveland, St. Louis and Gary, Ind.
When word came down to Detective Johns that the "cease-fire" was over, he worked several days of overtime just before Christmas to avoid doing any evictions on Christmas Eve.
There was nothing he could do about the day after Christmas.
There was nothing Shirley Spinks could do, either. As she sat crying in her dark living room, the last of her belongings piled against a wall, she said she was about a month behind in her rent for her shabby one-bedroom apartment in a dreary part of town.
Ms. Spinks, 28 years old, said she had been on the telephone searching for a shelter for her and her four children, the oldest of whom is 6 years old.
"The emergency shelter lady told me everything was filled up until Saturday," she said. "This hurts, it hurts bad. On Christmas, your kids open their gifts and play and eat and then the next day you have to get out. They don't understand evictions. They want to know, 'Where we're going to go?' "
 
Maintaining the Peace
 Detective Johns and his partner for the week, Detective James Massingale, had 15 eviction notices to serve today.
In Milwaukee, the landlords have to pay a moving company to move and store evicted tenants' belongings. Then if the tenants want to retrieve their belongings, they have to pay the moving company for the storage, which often costs several hundred dollars.
The detectives go along to maintain the peace.
"See this dent in my cheek?" Detective Johns asked. "That's where I got hit with a brick last year. The woman wasn't aiming at me. She was trying to hit the landlord. I just didn't duck in time."
Detective Johns, the eviction unit's main officer, said that on average he serves about 10 eviction notices a day, a number he attributes to the struggling economy and the tight grip of drugs. "I've been very, very busy the last three years or so," he said.
Patricia Dodds and her family were the detectives' third stop.
As a half-dozen moving men dumped the contents of her two-bedroom apartment into boxes, Ms. Dodds held her 3-year-old son, Anthony, on her lap.
"The New Year will have to be better than this because it can't get no worse," she said. "Tell me, what can be worse than being homeless?"
Ms. Dodds, 37, had shared the apartment with her two small children, her grown son, a nephew and her brother.
Her 19-year-old daughter, La'Shonda Foster, who has two small children of her own and lives in a one-bedroom apartment, said she would take her family in at least for the night.
"You going to have to start looking for a home today," she told her mother. "We all can't live there for long. The landlord will kick us out. Then we'll all be homeless."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Dodds clutching a few possessions as movers took her furniture from her two-bedroom apartment in Milwaukee. Ms. Dodds and her family were evicted Thursday for nonpayment of rent. (Dal Bayles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (97%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILWAUKEE (WIS) UNITED STATES (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (97%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CHRISTMAS; LANDLORDS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT EVICTION (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); JUDGES (89%); RELIGION (88%); SHERIFFS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); PASSOVER (71%); RAMADAN (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



966 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Soviet Union's Demise Spurs Upheaval in U.S. Heartland

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE, Neb., Dec. 27

 BODY:
The Strategic Air Command, the nerve center of the United States' nuclear strike force, is fading into history, along with the Soviet Union.
For the men and women who control the nation's long-range bombers and missiles, as for their neighbors in Omaha and the little town of Bellevue, Neb., the end is bittersweet. 
 "The cold war is over, and we won," said Major Donald R. Planalp, spokesman for the Strategic Air Command, which in its heyday controlled a mighty arsenal from the Great Plains to Newfoundland and Greenland, Western Europe, North Africa and Guam. "SAC worked itself out of a job by deterring nuclear aggression for 45 years."
 
Base to Lose 3,100 Jobs
 In 1960, the Strategic Air Command employed more than 260,000 people at 66 bases and controlled nearly 3,000 aircraft, including all the large bombers owned by the United States armed forces. Today it has 105,000 people at 22 bases with 750 aircraft, and it is shrinking fast.
In the next year alone, Offutt Air Force Base, which serves as headquarters of the Strategic Air Command and is the area's largest employer, will lose 3,100 jobs, or about 22 percent of all the people who work at the base. Their departure will leave a big hole in the region's economy.
Offutt now has 14,176 jobs, or more than twice as many as the area's next largest employer, Mutual of Omaha, and it pumps $400 million a year into the local economy, which has been largely insulated from the recession battering other parts of the country. Nebraska has the nation's lowest unemployment rate, 2.2 percent.
But the expected economic dislocation is minor compared with the psychological upheaval caused here in recent weeks by the demise of the Soviet Union.
Military men and women at SAC headquarters say they can barely keep pace with the revolutionary changes in Russia and Eastern Europe. The strategic planners who remain at Offutt, the ones who aim nuclear missiles and draft detailed war-fighting plans for the United States military, are struggling to redefine their mission. Who exactly is the enemy now? What is the threat? And how are they supposed to deter it?
 
SAC to Go Out of Existence
 "This command is heavily endowed with an honorable past," said Brig. Gen. Robert E. Linhard, deputy chief of staff at SAC headquarters. "Having fought the cold war for 40 years, having completed that mission, it's like watching Joe DiMaggio at the end of his career. You have to know when it's time to hang it up and move on. This command deserves an honorable passing. After contributing so much to the country, we don't want to be perceived as fighting for an irrelevant existence."
In a major realignment of military commands, SAC will go out of existence on June 1, to be replaced by a smaller unit composed of Air Force, Navy and Army personnel. In place of the 19 flag officers (18 generals and one admiral) now on duty here, there will be only eight. The new unit will no longer control any bases, and it will control only those aircraft actually needed for day-to-day operations. Offutt itself will come under the control of a new air combat command, at Langley Air Force Base in Virginia.
SAC was created in 1946 to deter Soviet aggression. Its underground command post, portrayed in numerous movies, became a symbol of the cold war. But earlier this year, when SAC bombers pummeled Iraq, SAC had "the cooperation in many respects of the Soviet Union," General Linhard said in an interview.
For years, SAC had warplanes, loaded with nuclear bombs, in the air 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, guarding against the perceived threat of a Soviet attack. As recently as Sept. 27, 50 of the command's 200 bombers were "cocked on nuclear alert," said General Linhard, parked at the end of special runways, ready to fly off into combat within minutes. On Sept. 27 President Bush called long-range bombers off their 24-hour alerts and announced that he would slash the American nuclear arsenal around the world.
Now, says General Linhard, just a day after the Communist flag was unceremoniously removed from its perch above the Kremlin, "we could be moving toward a post-nuclear world."
"Our responsibility remains to provide a degree of stability and safety," said General Linhard, "as we try to disentangle ourselves from this nuclear embrace that we've been in for 40 years."
Bomber crews, no longer on nuclear alert, are training for conventional warfare and regional conflicts like the Persian Gulf war.
But the 44-year-old General, who was born in New York City one year after the creation of SAC, said he still worried about the "residual nuclear capability" of Russia and three other former Soviet republics in which the Soviet Union had based its nuclear weapons.
"We don't sit idly by," the General said, adding that as the Soviet Union disintegrates, "we watch and we make adjustments" in the United States' nuclear target list and war plans.
Young officers here and at Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, Wyo., where some missiles are still on alert, say events in the newly independent republics of the former Soviet Union are too unpredictable for them to let down their guard.
Offutt is shrinking somewhat faster than local officials had been led to expect. S. P. Benson, the City Administrator of Bellevue, which adjoins the air base, said: "The SAC command staff informed us early this summer that there would be a 20 to 25 percent cut in personnel. They indicated that it would take place over four to five years. But the time period has been shortened to one year." That reflects budget pressures and changes in the mission of the air base, which reduced its personnel needs.
Officials from the State of Nebraska, the cities of Omaha and Bellevue, and Sarpy County, which includes the air base, plan to cooperate in retraining workers who lose jobs at the base and to help them find new jobs.
"There will be some migration of jobs away from Omaha as a result of the changes at SAC," said C. Roberts Bell, president of the Greater Omaha Chamber of Commerce. But he added that local companies were likely to prosper even after the demise of SAC because, in serving the air command's needs, they had kept up to date with the latest communications and computer technology. Such technology has many commercial uses.
Looking back over four decades, Mr. Bell, a retired vice admiral, said that SAC had much to be proud of because it "contributed directly to the collapse of Communism, the fall of the Soviet Union and the prevention of nuclear war."

GRAPHIC: Map of Nebraska highlighting Offutt Air Force Base

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND (SAC) GREAT PLAINS NATIONAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND (SAC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEBRASKA UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); NEBRASKA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE (NEB); AIR FORCES ARMED FORCES (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



967 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Poor Seekers of Good Life Flock to California, as Middle Class Moves Away;
Sun, Safety and State Aid Lure One Family

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STOCKTON, Calif., Dec. 24

 BODY:
Like generations of westward migrants before them, Say Vann, his wife and six children piled into a truck five years ago and headed sight-unseen for California, looking for warmer weather, cleaner air, less crime, fresher vegetables and, most important of all, higher welfare payments than they found in Pennsylvania, their first American home.
What the Vanns found here was just what they had hoped for, just what fellow Cambodian refugees promised. 
 There is no snow stinging their faces in the Central Valley, and the tomatoes are affordable year round. Their apartment is more spacious than the one they were used to. And while this drab city is beset by drugs and gangs, Mr. Vann and his children have yet to be attacked by muggers, a regular occurrence in North Philadelphia, where there were often racial conflicts with their black neighbors.
All this comfort, and more generous welfare benefits besides, have proved to the Vanns and millions of other poor newcomers, both foreign-born and American-born, that California is, indeed, a hospitable place, even as middle-class families are making the opposite decision and leaving.
 
Dire Fiscal Predictions
 This disparity, in a deteriorating economy, has led to dire fiscal predictions and sweeping proposals by Gov. Pete Wilson to overhaul the welfare system. Large, poor families like the Vanns, Mr. Wilson says, are swelling the welfare rolls here, filling schools to overflowing, overwhelming the state's health care system, and compounding its recessionary woes.
If costs are not cut and needy migrants discouraged, or if renewed Federal help is not forthcoming, the Republican governor predicted a fiscal "train wreck" in a state that had 12 percent of the nation's population but 26 percent of its welfare costs.
The Vanns, in most ways, fit the Governor's profile of a so-called tax-receiving family. Since arriving in California in 1986, the Vanns have averaged $200 a month more in welfare payments than they received in Pennsylvania, currently receiving $899 for two adults and three minor children. Under Governor Wilson's proposal, families like the Vanns would receive no more than their former state's welfare benefit for their first year in California.
The Vann's medical bills are paid by Medi-Cal and their income is buttressed by $170 a month in food stamps. In addition, the Vann family is being educated at state expense. The three elder children are in college, two of them using state scholarships supplemented with bank loans, and the three youngsters attend a public school.
 
A Long Stay on Welfare
 And Mr. Vann, a foreman in a sugar factory in Phnom Pehn before the murderous reign of the Khmer Rouge, has been able to master English, get a high school equivalency diploma and earn all but one unit toward a junior college degree because his benefits have been sufficient to support his family and because California both requires and provides such educational programs for welfare recipients.
The Vanns are typical in another way: their long stay on welfare, which they have collected off and on since arriving in the United States 11 years ago. While California's typical welfare family collects benefits for 39 months, Southeast Asian refugees remain on the rolls for an average of 53 months, state officials say.
This protracted welfare dependency is often a result of the trauma the refugees suffered in their homelands, according to people providing social services in Stockton, which is thought to have the highest concentration of Southeast Asian refugees in the nation. Mr. Vann's ailing wife, for instance, rarely leaves the house and "thinks too much," he said, about the death of so many relatives, including a son, at the hands of the Khmer Rouge.
But Mr. Vann offers another argument for the extended dependency of his family and others: the prohibitive cost of health insurance once they join the ranks of the working poor.
 
Working May Cut Money
 "People would like to work, but they have so many children," Mr. Vann said, his own large brood clustered around him in a living room adorned with Christmas garlands, a Buddhist shrine and neat stacks of school books. "It is not only me but all the refugees. We have the same worry about insurance for the children."
The dilemma for Mr. Vann is not merely theoretical, because he has been offered a full-time job, beginning at the first of the year, as a teacher's aide in the bilingual education program at Charterhouse, a refugee agency here. The job would pay Mr. Vann $1,150 a month, more than his welfare payment and more than the minimum wage refugees usually receive.
But if he takes the job, Mr. Vann will lose not only his welfare benefit and a portion of his food stamp allotment but also his eligibility for state health care, since Charterhouse offers a medical plan to its employees. While the plan is free for Mr. Vann, it will cost $136.77 per month for each dependent, plus $17.58 a month for dental care. The total insurance bill would be more than $600 a month, assuming Mr. Vann left his college-age children uncovered.
Laura Pennington, the program director at Charterhouse, who first met Mr. Vann when he was her student in an English class at Delta Community College here, said the situation was impossible. "That's the No. 1 reason they're not working."
The economics of work versus welfare are daunting for the Vann family. Rent on their two-bedroom apartment is $400, and utilities average $130 a month in winter. Mr. Vann pays $60 a month for insurance on his 1981 Oldsmobile, sales tax on many of his purchases and other incidentals like bridge tolls and fees to fish.
School vacations strain the Vann budget because all the children are home, eating hearty meals, while only the three younger ones are covered by welfare. That problem will get worse when 16-year-old Sophy turns 18.
The Vann children help out as best they can. Sophorn, 19 years old and a pharmacy student at the University of the Pacific here, earns minimum wage as a counterman at MacDonald's during summer vacation. Sophy, a high school senior, works part time as a bilingual aide in a neighborhod elementary school. Smey Reak, 23, a college student in Philadelphia who also works at a waiter, squirreled away his tips last year and bought the family a television and a compact disc player to celebrate the lunar New Year.
"He has a credit card," Mr. Vann said, with undisguised pride at his eldest child's success.
Mr. Vann, who pretended he could not read when interned by the Cambodian Communists so they would not kill him, values nothing so much as his children's education -- and his own.
"Nobody can steal it," he said. "No fire can take it away. Knowledge is inside your body."
The children look on admiringly as Mr. Vann describes his ambitions and then shyly chronicle their own.
Smey Reak is about to transfer from junior college to Pennsylvania State University where he will study mathematics. Sophorn intends to be a pharmacist. Sophreap, 18, is an engineering student at the University of California at Davis. Sophy will join her brother at the University of the Pacific next year, with plans to major in international relations. Sony, 13, says she would like to be a ballet dancer. Chan, 11, giggles and gives no hint of his future plans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Say Vann and five of his children at their home in Stockton, Calif. The Cambodian family moved to California from Pennsylvania five years ago in search of better weather and higher welfare benefits. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Welfare Comparison" shows maximum monthly welfare payments for a family of three in the 10 largest states (Source: California Department of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CAMBODIA (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME IMPROVEMENT (58%); AMERICAN HOME PATIENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (96%); CAMBODIA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CAMBODIAN-AMERICANS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); HEALTH CARE (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (61%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (60%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE PETE BARTON WILSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



968 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S ASIAN TRIP RECAST TO STRESS JOBS AND EXPORTS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
As President Bush departs Monday for Australia and Asia, the trip he had originally scheduled as a good-will tour has changed under political pressures into a blunt sales pitch for American exports and jobs, bringing anger and dismay in Japan.
Mr. Bush's decision to take with him a group of American business executives to help insist on freer access to Asian markets is born in part of domestic concerns. Those concerns, his advisers say, include the fear that his decision to travel 26,000 miles overseas amid what some are calling the longest recession since the 1930's will only add fuel to Democrats' criticism that the President prefers tackling problems abroad rather than those in his back yard. 
 But the announcement that Mr. Bush would take the business executives with him has brought some strenuous negative reactions from business and political leaders in Japan, aggravating tensions between the two economic superpowers as the Japanese Prime Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, is seeing his domestic political problems grow.
 
Actions by Tokyo
 Japanese and American officials are likely to seek to avoid open confrontation during the Japan segment of the trip. And the Japanese, who enjoy a $41 billion trade surplus with the United States, appear to be reacting in small ways already to the Administration's pressure.
Officials in Tokyo said Friday that they might agree to reduce their auto exports to the United States next year, a move that seems to nod to the American concerns on Japan's auto imports but would probably have little effect because sales already are declining.
With the economy wounded and his political rivals scenting the blood, Mr. Bush is taking in tow 21 executives of major American corporations, including the heads of Detroit's Big Three automakers, for the 12-day lobbying tour of Australia, Singapore, South Korea and Japan.
 
Japanese Criticisms
 The stop in Tokyo from Jan. 7-10 is the last and by far the most important stop of the trip. There, Mr. Bush is scheduled to present his delegation to Mr. Miyazawa and local business leaders in what some Japanese newspapers already are calling an exercise in "Japan bashing" at the highest level of the American Government.
Mr. Bush's advisers insist that the display of American unhappiness is justified by Japan's steadfast refusal to open its markets to American goods, and that their aim is not to embarrass their hosts.
"I don't think it's going to be done in a high-handed manner," one of the President's political advisers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in an interview this week. "We're not going to castigate Japan."
That adviser nonetheless said that the visit entails "some risk" of generating a diplomatic backlash in Japan, where opinion polls suggest that the United States increasingly is seen as a declining economic power demanding handouts from its more robust Japanese competitors.
In Tokyo, the mere anticipation of Mr. Bush's tough-talking mission and his corporate delegation has generated a backwash of angry editorials in major newspapers, and even experts who applaud the idea say it might provoke diplomatic and public-relations problems. In a typical comment, Asahi Shimbun, Japan's leading newspaper, said Mr. Bush appeared to be waging "gunboat diplomacy in economic areas."
On the American side, some public statements have been equally tough. Lee Iacocca, chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, told reporters outside the White House this month that Japanese trade policies are "basically unfair" and deny American manufacturers "a fair shake."
Joseph T. Gorman, chairman of TRW Inc. and one of the executives making the trip, said in an interview last week that business leaders plan to deliver an unvarnished message to Tokyo.
"They have to realize that the problem of trade barriers is inescapable, and it's one that's unsustainable, and something has to be done," he said. "That's the point."
Mr. Bush's Democratic critics have heightened the political stakes, with a group led by the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, threatening legislation that would limit Japanese automobile imports unless the President returned from Tokyo with real trade concession in hand.
Mr. Bush, in turn, has sought tolower expectations, waying this week only that he would make clear that "They had better do something" about unfair trade practices.
One senior official, citing White House polling data, said that the public believed the nation's economic problems required long-term solutions, and that Mr. Bush agreed.
When the journey was first scheduled for late November, it was depicted as a personal visit to two of Mr. Bush's favorite world leaders in Japan and Australia, leavened with a new diplomatic initiative on free trade. But Mr. Bush abruptly canceled the trip on Nov. 5, election night, after returns underscored voters' unhappiness with the economy and the Administration's handling of domestic matters in general.
 
'Jobs, Jobs, Jobs'
 Since then, Prime Minister Robert Hawke of Australia and Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu of Japan have been ousted from office, the last vestiges of Soviet military power in Asia have vanished, Mr. Bush's popularity has plummeted and a new team of political and policy advisers has taken command in the White House. And while the thrust of the Asia visit remains the same, its political complexion is considerably changed.
Mr. Bush has billed the trip as a crusade to create and save "jobs, jobs, jobs" at home by persuading allies to lower trade barriers and buy more American goods. In a news conference this week, he went as far as to suggest that his hopscotch through two continents and two archipelagos was entirely a domestic matter, devoted solely to promoting exports, "working out the final phases of a highly complex Federal budget," and "putting the final touches on a State of the Union" address that will offer new economic meassures.
In Japan, where he once planned to visit a model high school in Tokyo and play tennis with Emperor Akihito, Mr. Bush now is scheduled to visit an American Toys 'R' Us outlet and invite 18 executives from his business delegation to press Japan's top business and government leaders for trade concessions.
The shift in emphasis was endorsed by Mr. Bush's new chief of staff, Samuel K. Skinner, and his chief campaign advisers, Fred Malek and Robert Teeter, officials said.
 
Assertions of Pandering
 A second senior Administration official said that the Asian trip had been intended from its origin to underscore the desire for freer trade in the Pacific, but that the political pressures generated by a sagging economy have now cast it in a sharper and less forgiving light.
"Admittedly, it looks more politically expedient than I wanted," said that official, who insisted on not being identified.
Some outside experts are accusing Mr. Bush of pandering to domestic politic pressures.
"It's a hell of a way to pursue domestic policy, by sending the President 26,000 miles," said Seth Cropsey, a scholar at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative Washington research institute, at a recent briefing on the Asia trip for reporters. "We suspect that both he and Barbara will qualify for a free trip to New Hampshire with these miles he's been getting on that."
But the President's aides insist that the four-nation tour is good politics and good diplomacy.
"This isn't just a trip to spread diplomatic niceties around to our allies," said one of his advisers. "It's a trip to deal with some of their unfair trade practices and to protect American jobs. If you consider political benefits to be job creation and a better trade balance, then this is a political trip."
 
Bush Government's Help
 The trip also will yield more subtle political benefits for Mr. Bush by allowing his principal campaign fund-raiser, the departing Commerce Secretary, Robert A. Mosbacher, to wield White House clout on behalf of American business interests.
"Mosbacher wants to signal everybody in the Administration and all the business leaders he's going to have to touch next year that we've got a new relationship -- that business is going to get tangible help from the Government in selling its goods," said a former senior trade official in the Bush Administration, who insisted on not being identified. "And the most tangible evidence of that is this business delegation."
In a telephone interview today, Mr. Mosbacher called Japanese criticism of Mr. Bush's trip "part of their normal posturing" and said that Tokyo seldom makes concessions in its trade practices until outside pressures force them to do so.
In taking business executives with him to Asia, he said, Mr. Bush is merely taking his cue from Asian political leaders, who routinely travel abroad with corporate officials. The coming trip allows business and the White House "to speak with one voice" to Tokyo, he said.
"The Japanese are much too smart and sophisticated to overreact" to that, he said. "We're their No. 1 customer," he continued. "And they know that the President has a very positive attitude toward Japan in general."
The delegation of corporate executives -- the first ever to accompany a President on a state visit -- is potentially the most productive and most risky facet of the entire tour, Mr. Bush's aides acknowledge. It includes officials of some firms that have penetrated the Asian market, some that are showcases of American manufacturing quality, and some that have failed to make a dent in Japan and the rest of Asia and are openly angry about it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; AUSTRALIA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; ELECTION ISSUES EXPORT TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



969 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Dollars Are Leaving Philippines, Too

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANILA, Dec. 28

 BODY:
The withdrawal of American forces from the Subic Bay naval base by the end of 1992 will close a chapter in the Philippines' turbulent relationship with its former colonial ruler, but it poses economic problems for this already poor country.
The decision to withdraw from Subic is expected to end a longstanding political debate. Since Filipinos won full independence from the United States in 1946, they have been divided over the issue of the American military presence. 
 "We can now get on with our national agenda," said Senator Rene Saguisag, who is opposed to any extension of base agreements.
But the American withdrawal also means economic dislocation, especially in the city of Olongapo, the rest-and-recreation center just south of Subic that thrives on the base's presence. The naval installation provides jobs for more than 40,000 Filipinos, directly employing about 20,000, and about 160,000 more depend on income generated by the base.
In 1990, revenue from all American-leased military installations contributed somewhere between 1.7 percent and 3 percent of the Philippine gross national product. Estimates of the amount vary.
Since then, Washington has closed minor installations as part of global military cutbacks. Then the United States Air Force shut down Clark Air Base after it was heavily damaged by the volcanic eruption in June of Mount Pinatubo. That left Subic.
The volcano-damaged area where Subic and Clark are situated is in the central region of Luzon, the Philippines' main island. The eruption of Mount Pinatubo displaced tens of thousands of people and destroyed farms and other property whose value was estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars.
 
Cutbacks Were Planned
 Analysts expect the economic impact of the American withdrawal to be limited to Olongapo and nearby towns.
What is more, reductions were on the way before Mount Pinatubo erupted and before Philippine Senators refused to renew the Subic lease in September.
Twelve of the 23 senators rejected a proposed treaty that would have extended the lease for 10 years. Senators who opposed extension, like Mr. Saguisag, saw the American military presence as a colonial relic that had to be discarded.
If the base lease had been extended, the radical change in global security needs brought on by the collapse of Communism would have led the Navy to drastically cut back its operations at Subic Bay.
The base has pumped about $220million a year in wages and purchases into the local economy. If Manila had agreed to a new treaty, the United States would have paid $200 million more in annual compensation.
While loss of this income will not significantly alter the national economy -- a weak one, with per capita income less than $700 -- it will cripple communities around Subic and the Philippine armed forces, which rely on American military aid that comes with the base compensation package.
"Our town is totally devastated," said Mayor Richard Gordon of Olangapo. "We will lose everything -- our money, our jobs -- and we are not ready."
A Philippine Government plan to convert the Subic base into a commercial ship-repair facility and an industrial zone has floundered. The Senate has delayed passage of a bill creating a Bases Conversion Authority, and the businessman who heads a conversion committee has resigned because the Government has not released funds to him.
Efforts over the last six months to convert the abandoned Clark base into a special economic zone that includes an international airport, have not progressed beyond rough drafts. Manila does not have the money.
President Corazon C. Aquino is among those who wanted to renew or extend the leases. She argued that the economic benefits from the stationing of American troops were too great to pass up.
But Mrs. Aquino is a lame-duck President, and the election campaign that will determine her successor has already gathered steam.
Mr. Saguisag remarked, "The national debate will continue to focus on the bases as long as the issue is alive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The American withdrawal from the Subic Bay naval base means economic dislocation, especially in the city of Olongapo, for the 20,000 Filipinos employed by the base and the thousands more who depend on income created by the base. Mayor Richard Gordon, left, of Olongapo explaining to his wife, Kate Gordon, a member of the Philippine Congress, the proposed plans for the area. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of the Philippines highlighting Clark Air Base

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES; SUBIC BAY NAVAL BASE (PHILIPPINES); OLONGAPO (PHILIPPINES) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NAVIES (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (76%); MAYORS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); TRENDS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



970 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Plan for New Commodities Center Faces Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
A year after it was announced as a victory in New York City's battle to retain big business, the plan for a new $450 million commodities trading center in TriBeCa appears likely to be scaled down because commodities firms can now find cheaper office space elsewhere in lower Manhattan.
The project would be the recipient of one of the largest real-estate subsidies from the city and state. Already the focus of fierce opposition from TriBeCa residents, the project is now being squeezed by a depressed market for office space in which landlords are desperate for corporate tenants. 
 "Given the current economic climate, the timing of this project is horrible," said Henry Jarecki, chairman of Brody White and Company, one of more than 1,000 members of the city's five commodities exchanges. "I don't think any of us will move in," he said. The project should be abandoned altogether, he said.
The city's Planning Commission is to make its recommendation on the project to the City Council by Jan. 13. City and state officials acknowledge that offices in the new center, if it is built by the end of 1994 as scheduled, will face tough competition in lower Manhattan. But they insist that the project is critical to New York's long-term economic health.
 
An Important Message
 "It is particularly important now, in this economy, that we send a message to the world that New York's future is bright," said Sally Hernandez-Pinero, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, in testimony before the Planning Commission earlier this month.
The project is part of a deal struck late last year after the city's five exchanges, which trade on a cramped floor at the World Trade Center, said they needed more modern space and would move to Jersey City.
New York City and the state promised to pay $100 million of the cost of building the commodities center. At least $42 million more came later in tax breaks and rent subsidies.
Commodities executives say they do not know how many firms would move in. But even the ones who support the project see potential problems, if, for example, neighborhood opposition delays construction.
 
'Reassess Our Commitment'
 "If the time line on this project changes, it would be necessary to reassess our commitment to New York City," said R. Patrick Thompson, president of the New York Merchantile Exchange, the largest of the city's five commodities exchanges.
The other exchanges are the Commodities Exchange; the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, the New York Cotton Exchange and the New York Futures Exchange. The exchanges say they employ 11,700 people in lower Manhattan, more than five times the number 10 years ago.
City officials say one reason so much public money is being pledged is that commodities trading has grown despite the poor economy.
If approved, the TriBeCa project, on a city-owned block bounded by West, Murray, Greenwich and Warren Streets, would be built in two parts. The most important part, city officials and the exchanges agree, would be a 20-story exchange building that would house two new trading floors, with four times the space it now uses in the World Trade Center. All the public money promised for construction subsidies would be dedicated to that part of the project.
The second part, which appears more likely to be revised, is an adjoining 47-story office tower for commodities brokers, data processors and others employed by the member firms. As much as $20 million in city and state money would be available to subsidize tenants' rents and energy costs.
 
Questions on 2d Tower
 In testimony before the Planning Commission and subsequent interviews, more than a dozen member firms said they supported the plan for the trading floor, but had not yet made up their minds about leasing office space. They say the most likely solution is to build the 20-story exchange building and reduce the size of the second tower for only those firms that commit themselves to office space.
"This was never intended as a speculative project, and is not now," said Amy Benenson, managing director of the New York Exchanges Project, a group formed by the five exchanges to coordinate their plans.
Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, said, "We have simply got to reduce the height of that tower," and cited reasons including opposition from the neighborhood and the fear that the space would not be leased. She added that the change "would in no way derail this project."
But the project is drawing harsh criticism in the neighborhood. Groups in TriBeCa, including its Community Board, have opposed it from the start, saying it would overwhelm their streets with traffic and overburden their public services.
 
'There Is Already a Glut'
 "The question is whether the city should be underwriting more office space in lower Manhattan when there is already a glut," said Kent Barwick, executive director of the Municipal Art Society, the urban design and planning group.
"Given the huge financial stake the city and state want to take, we ought to see a lot more specifics about this project," he added.
Commodities executives say they, too, want more information.
Office space in the proposed center "is definitely under consideration, but it is far to early in the cycle for us to make up our minds," said Susan Quigly, a spokesman for Shearson Commodities Inc., one of the city's largest commodities traders.
Another of the city's large firms, Cargill Investor Services Inc., says it believes that the new commodities exchange center is needed, but has no plans to move to an office there.
"It would be very, very difficult for us to consider moving for several years to come," said William F. Berger, senior vice president at Cargill, which has a 10-year lease on an office for 125 workers in the World Financial Center, two blocks from the proposed site of the new complex. "We don't plan to break our lease," Mr. Berger said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (70%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRODY WHITE & CO INC (70%); ICE FUTURES US (50%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FUTURES (77%); MAYORS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); COFFEE (70%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (61%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



971 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Political Talk

BYLINE: By Sam Howe Verhovek

 BODY:

 
No More Friendly Enemies
 For all the attention in Albany on the war between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Republican leaders of the State Senate, whom Mr. Cuomo has blamed for blocking a budget agreement and for keeping him out of the Presidential race, there has been something of a sideshow struggle between the Governor and another Republican: United States Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
Although they come from different parties, the Governor and Senator D'Amato were on distinctly friendly terms for years, sometimes using words like "superb" (Mr. Cuomo did) and "super, just super" (Mr. D'Amato did) to describe each other's work.
But not now.
The first real signs of hostility surfaced two weeks ago, when Mr. D'Amato announced that he would go to snowy Albany to issue some thoughts about the state budget. "Oh, we'll make sure to shovel the Capitol steps for him," a sarcastic Mr. Cuomo told reporters at a news conference. ("Yes, before and after," piped in his chief of staff, Andrew J. Zambelli, as the room dissolved in laughter.)
The next day Mr. D'Amato, who had never before taken such a public interest in state budget matters, did show up, declaring that if Mr. Cuomo couldn't handle his own state's budget, "obviously people will wonder how you can handle that situation nationwide." Mr. Cuomo lashed back at the Senator as a lackey sent by Republicans in Washington, calling him "B.A.D. -- a Bush Attack Dog."
That provoked an expression of outrage from Mr. D'Amato. "Your decision to respond to my economic ideas with personal vitriol is wrong," he wrote in a letter to Mr. Cuomo. "I demand an apology."
None came from the Governor, who later predicted that Mr. D'Amato, who is expected to face a tough reelection battle next fall, would be a severe drag on the Republican State Senators who will also be campaigning. "It's going to be like running through the mud with a 900-pound sumo wrestler on your back," he said.
People close to both men say there is genuine irritation between the two that could well harden into permanent ill feelings. On the other hand, it is certainly not impossible that all the nasty words served other purposes than just an exchange of slurs.
For Mr. Cuomo, the D'Amato appearance did bolster his contention that there might be a national Republican plot against him. And for Mr. D'Amato, an attack on a Governor who has sagged in the polls, along with the publicity surrounding the theatrics of their falling out, may well have given a boost to his re-election bid.
 
You Wanted It
 Angry Democrats last week turned the table on New Jersey's largest teachers' union, the New Jersey Education Association, using an Assembly Appropriations Committee hearing on tax repeal to deliver a stern public lecture.
"The teachers' union unmistakably added their voice to the chorus of repeal, repeal, repeal," said Assemblyman Bernard F. Kenny, a Democrat from Hudson County. "Now that the Legislature is considering a sunset and review of the tax package and programs, the N.J.E.A. is doing an about-face. I'm perplexed."
The 137,000-member association put its money and votes behind Republican candidates in the Nov. 5 election. The teachers' union, one of the most powerful unions in the state, was angry with Democrats over a section of the Quality Education Act that tried to shift teacher pension costs from the state to local schools in richer districts.
Monday's hearing was the first face-to-face meeting between Democrats and N.J.E.A. representatives since the election, and the Democrats seized that opportunity to give the union a tongue-lashing.
"When the N.J.E.A. panicked because the Q.E.A. shifted teacher pension and social security costs to the local level, the Democrats stepped in and delayed the shift for a period of two years," said Assemblyman John A. Villapiano, another Democratic member of the Appropriations Committee. "But the union still balked, then worked to defeat the Democratic legislators who crafted the 1990 tax program.
"To suggest now that the program is fine and should be left alone is at best an about face and at worst, hypocrisy."
Wayne S. Dibofsky, the associate director of government relations for the union, bore the brunt of the Democrats' anger as he sat before the committee arguing against repeal of the entire $2.8 billion tax package the Democratic-controlled Legislature approved 18 months ago.
"We're concerned about the growing deficit, the quality of life in New Jersey and the quality of schools," Mr. Dibofsky said. "All could be drastically hurt by this suggestion that we start from ground zero."
And a spokeswoman for the teachers' union, Karen Joseph, accused the Democrats of "distorting our message."
"The N.J.E.A. has never opposed taxes," Ms. Joseph said. "Taxes are what pay for public education."
 
From Erie to Albany
 Jim Kelly, the Buffalo Bills quarterback, is arguably the best-known person in western New York right now. But a new survey of community leaders by Business First, a magazine that covers the area, cites somebody else as the "most influential" person in the region: Dennis T. Gorski, the Erie County Executive.
Mr. Gorski, a Democrat who soundly turned back a challenge in November from Mayor James D. Griffin of Buffalo, is about to start his second four-year term. He is the only Democrat ever elected to the post.
Although Buffalo and the New York metropolitan region are so far apart that some people have suggested they belong in different states, the 47-year-old Mr. Gorski is expected at some point to try to parlay his influence into a bid for statewide office. One of his predecessors as county executive, Edward V. Regan, a Republican, is the State Comptroller, and another western New Yorker, Stan Lundine, the former Mayor of Jamestown, is the Lieutenant Governor.
 
Directory Assistance
 What a difference a year makes.
"Crotty, Davis, Forsythe, Dullea, Fryer, Poklemba," reads the speed-dial listings on the telephone in Governor Cuomo's conference room in the State Capitol.
Apparently the budget chaos has kept Mr. Cuomo's staff so busy that no one has had a chance to change the names, which represent the people who held six of the highest positions in the Cuomo administration last year. All six men -- who were, respectively, the Governor's chief of staff, counsel, budget director, director of state operations, press officer and criminal-justice director -- left following Mr. Cuomo's November 1990 re-election, for jobs in either private business or higher education.
The changeover has been cast as a way to bring on a new team for Mr. Cuomo's third term, although some officials in the Capitol also took it as an early sign that some of those closest to Mr. Cuomo, who might not have left if they thought he were headed for the White House, did not believe he would wind up running for President.
Just for the record, when things calm down it's time to change the labels on those buttons to: (Andrew J.) Zambelli, (Elizabeth D.) Moore, (Patrick J.) Bulgaro, (Mary Ann) Crotty, (Anne W.) Crowley and (Richard H.) Girgenti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DOGS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE ALFONSE M D'AMATO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



972 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 2532 words

HEADLINE: 1991: THE YEAR IN SPORTS;
Champions And Casualties Share the Stage

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
WHILE the Giants were winning a classic Super Bowl, scud missiles were whining through the skies of the Persian Gulf. When the Minnesota Twins were winning a classic World Series, the Soviet Union was crumbling, ruble by ruble, into a commonwealth without wealth.
In 1991, sports produced classic theater amid raw reality. 
 Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls dunked the National Basketball Association championship. Duke upset previously unbeaten Nevada-Las Vegas before winning the national collegiate title.
Mike Powell soared to a long-jump world record of 29 feet 4 1/2 inches in Tokyo, where Carl Lewis burned 100 meters in a record 9.86 seconds. Earlier, Sergei Bubka pole-vaulted a record 20 feet 1/4 inch.
With golf's Ryder Cup at stake on the final green of the final match, the United States recaptured it when Europe's Bernhard Langer missed a 5-foot putt.
Tennis' grand old man, 39-year-old Jimmy Connors, was center stage at the United States Open until the semifinals. In the biggest upset in Davis Cup history, France won the final for the first time in 59 years, dethroning the United States.
In women's soccer, the United States won the world championship, beating Norway in the final. And three American figure skaters (Kristi Yamaguchi, Tonya Harding and Nancy Kerrigan) finished first, second and third in the world championships.
But more often than usual, harsh human elements intruded on the fun and games.
Magic Johnson was among 10 National Basketball Association players named to the 1992 Olympic basketball team before he suddenly retired from the Los Angeles Lakers. He had contracted human immunodeficiency virus, which leads to AIDS.
Bo Jackson's baseball career was interrupted and his pro football career presumably ended by a severely damaged hip.
Soon after Mike Tyson signed to challenge Evander Holyfield for the world heavyweight title, Tyson was indicted on charges of raping an 18-year-old Miss Black America contestant in Indianapolis; his trial begins Jan. 27.
Lyle Alzado disclosed that he believed his brain tumor had been caused by steroids taken to enhance his pro football career.
As the Pittsburgh Penguins began defending the Stanley Cup, their coach, Bob Johnson, died of brain cancer.
Howard Spira, the Bronx gambler whose link to George Steinbrenner had resulted in the Yankees principal owner being exiled from baseball, was convicted of extortion and sentenced to 30 months in Federal prison.
Dexter Manley of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Roy Tarpley of the Dallas Mavericks were banned from their sports for illegal-drug abuse; Steve Howe's baseball career was again in jeopardy after a cocaine arrest.
Robert Helmick resigned the presidency of the United States Olympic Committee amid accusations of unethical business conduct.
Mike Utley, a Detroit Lions lineman, was paralyzed in a freak fall during a game and Willie Shoemaker, again a trainer of race horses, was paralyzed in an auto accident.
Lightning killed spectators at the United States Open and the Professional Golfers Association championship.
And in the economic recession, Calumet Farm, once the grand dame of thoroughbred racing stables, filed for bankruptcy.
But the recession didn't affect salaries. After the Mets finished fifth, their new general manager, Al Harazin, signed the free agent Bobby Bonilla to a five-year $29 million contract. The Knicks negotiated a six-year extension with Patrick Ewing worth $33 million. And the Miami Dolphins quarterback, Dan Marino, received a five-year $25 million deal.
The value of the Super Bowl XXV champion Giants franchise was pegged at $140 million after Robert Tisch, a billionaire businessman, purchased 50 percent for a reported $70 million.
 
Quarterback Controversy
 For the Giants, the glory of their 20-19 Super Bowl victory over the Buffalo Bills at the start of the year dissolved into embarrassment following Coach Bill Parcells's decision that "it was time" to stop coaching. In the 1991 season, the Giants sagged to an 8-8 record with Ray Handley, who chose Jeff Hostetler over Phil Simms at quarterback.
As the dismal season ended, Simms's future with the Giants was uncertain. Lawrence Taylor, who missed most of the last four games with a damaged knee, was not chosen as a Pro Bowl linebacker for the first time in his 11 seasons.
In the Jets' second year under Bruce Coslet, they finished the regular season 8-8 and earned their wild-card playoff game with the Houston Oilers today with a theatrical 23-20 overtime victory in Miami.
The Washington Redskins, with a 14-2 record, and the Bills, at 13-3, were favored to produce a Super Bowl XXVI showdown in Minneapolis after a season played without two of the National Football League's best quarterbacks: San Francisco's Joe Montana (elbow) and Philadelphia's Randall Cunningham (knee) sat out the year with injuries.
In college football, the University of Miami hoped to assure itself the national championship with an Orange Bowl victory over Nebraska on Wednesday, but that wouldn't break the three-way share of the 1990 title the bowl games didn't settle. Miami was the choice of The New York Times's computer while Colorado and Georgia Tech were first in the Associated Press and United Press International polls.
Desmond Howard, a Michigan wide receiver, was voted the Heisman Trophy in a landslide while Auburn coped with charges of illegal payments to Eric Ramsey, once a cornerback there.
In its first season, the World League of American Football cost N.F.L. owners a reported $28 million. The London Monarchs, one of three European franchises, won the championship.
 
Baseball and Money
 At the age of 36, Jack Morris symbolized baseball, artistically and financially. In the seventh game of the World Series, he shut out the Atlanta Braves for 10 innings before the Minnesota Twins finally won, 1-0, on Gene Larkin's pinch-single. Two months later, Morris departed his hometown area to join the Toronto Blue Jays for $10.85 million over two years.
But the memory of what was generally considered the best World Series ever will endure. Among other footnotes, it was the first to have the seventh game go scoreless through nine innings, the first with four games decided on the last pitch, the first with five games decided on a team's last turn at bat, the first with three extra-inning games.
Both the Twins and the Braves had ascended from last place finishes in 1990. The Twins won the American League pennant in four games with the Blue Jays. The Braves, with 21-year-old Steve Avery earning two 1-0 victories and their fans doing the controversial tomahawk chop, needed seven to eliminate the Pittsburgh Pirates for the National League title.
Even though Howard Johnson led the National League with 38 homers and 117 runs batted in, the Mets sagged to fifth with a 77-84 record, prompting the dismissal of Manager Buddy Harrelson and the transfer of the general manager's torch to Harazin from Frank Cashen, who retired from day-to-day duties. Harazin hired Jeff Torborg as manager, signed Bonilla for $29 million over five years and first baseman Eddie Murray for $7.5 million over two years, then acquired ace righthander Bret Saberhagen and infielder Bill Pecota in a blockbuster trade that shipped Kevin McReynolds, Gregg Jefferies and Keith Miller to the Kansas City Royals. But a three-year, $15.45 million deal with Dwight Gooden was clouded by rotator-cuff surgery.
With a 71-91 record, the Yankees not only finished fifth but, worse, showed little interest in improving. Buck Showalter received a one-year contract to succeed Stump Merrill, the manager in the middle when Don Mattingly was benched for one game for not having a proper haircut. Robert Nederlander announced his resignation, effective Wednesday, as managing partner. That prompted speculation that George Steinbrenner will try to return from his permanent suspension meted out in 1990 by Commissioner Fay Vincent.
The directors of the Baseball Hall of Fame ruled that anybody on baseball's ineligible list, meaning Pete Rose, would not be listed on the annual ballot for election.
At age 44, Nolan Ryan fired his fastball for a record seventh no-hitter only a few hours after Rickey Henderson stole his 939th base, surpassing Lou Brock's total. Dennis Martinez of the Montreal Expos pitched the major leagues' 15th perfect game. And the National League awarded franchises to Denver and Miami, to begin play with the 1993 season.
 
Bulls Get Bullish
 In the N.B.A., the Bulls lost the opening game of the championship series to the Lakers, then swept four straight as Jordan averaged 31.2 points and 11.4 assists. He earned most valuable player awards for both the playoffs and the season; he won his fifth consecutive scoring title with a 31.5 average. The Bulls roared through the playoffs with a 15-2 record, dethroning Detroit in the Eastern Conference final in four games after having eliminated Philadelphia in five and the Knicks in three straight.
Even before completing a third-place 39-43 record in the Atlantic Division under John MacLeod, the Knicks hired a new general manager, Dave Checketts, to succeed the dismissed Al Bianchi. Checketts lured Pat Riley away from television for $5 million over five years. The players responded to Riley by challenging Boston for first place.
The Nets continued to flounder. With the second choice in the college draft, they took Kenny Anderson, the Georgia Tech playmaker. But a contract dispute prevented him from joining the team until after the season opener. Typical of the franchise's confusion, Jim Valvano, once the North Carolina State coach, was recently reported about to succeed Bill Fitch as coach, but the Nets' chairman, Alan Aufzien, denied there was an official offer to Valvano.
In college basketball, defending champion U.N.L.V., its program and Coach Jerry Tarkanian hounded by the National Collegiate Athletic Association rules enforcers, appeared on a 30-game roll to another title. But in the tournament semifinals, Duke surprised the top-ranked Runnin' Rebels, 79-77, then dominated Kansas, 72-65. In the Blue Devils' fourth consecutive trip to the Final Four and second straight appearance in the title game, Coach Mike Krzyzewski finally received the trophy.
In a surprise Stanley Cup final, the Penguins prevailed over the Minnesota North Stars, who with only 27 regular-season victories had reached the finals after upsets over the two teams with the most triumphs, Chicago and St. Louis. In the playoffs, Mario Lemieux, the Penguins center who had missed more than half the season while recovering from spinal surgery, produced 44 points, including 16 goals. During the season, Brett Hull of the St. Louis Blues scored 86 goals.
Both the Rangers and the Devils were eliminated in the opening round of the playoffs, but later fortified their rosters. The Rangers obtained center Mark Messier, then rewarded him with a five-year $13 million contract. The Devils acquired defenseman Scott Stephens and forward Stephane Richer. The Islanders, who traded Pat Lafontaine to Buffalo, were scheduled to be sold to a group of Long Island businessmen.
 
New Hero Emerges
 John Daly emerged as an instant folk hero by winning the Professional Golfers Association championship with booming tee shots of more than 300 yards at Crooked Stick. Payne Stewart won the United States Open at Hazeltine National in an 18-hole playoff with Scott Simpson. Ian Woosnam of Wales put on the Masters green jacket and Ian Baker-Finch of Australia took the British Open at Royal Birkdale. Chip Beck's 59 on 13 birdies in Las Vegas equaled Al Geiberger's PGA Tour record.
Jack Nicklaus won the Senior Open but a Long Island club pro, Jim Albus, stunned Lee Trevino in a Senior Players Championship duel. Among the women, Meg Mallon had a rare double: the Women's Open and the L.P.G.A. title.
In tennis, Connors's march at the United States Open ended in the semifinals against Jim Courier, the French Open champion, who lost to Stefan Edberg in the final. Monica Seles won the women's title. After having won both the Australian Open and the French Open, the 17-year-old Yugoslav strangely snubbed Wimbledon, provoking fines of $26,000. She then refused to play in the Federation Cup and was banned from the 1992 Olympics. Michael Stich and Steffi Graf produced a German sweep of singles at Wimbledon.
The unbeaten heavyweight boxing champion, Holyfield, twice retained the title. He earned a 12-round decision over 42-year-old George Foreman and stopped Bert Cooper in the seventh round after arising from a third-round knockdown, the first of his pro career. Mike Tyson twice conquered Donovan (Razor) Ruddock. Sugar Ray Leonard retired, finally, after being clearly outpointed by the superwelterweight champion, Terry Norris.
In thoroughbred racing, Hansel won both the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes after Strike the Gold took the Kentucky Derby. In the Breeders' Cup, the Classic went to Black Tie Affair after Arazi, a two-year-old who had raced in France, streaked in the Juvenile. Angel Cordero rode his 7,000th winner. In harness racing, Giant Victory took the Hambletonian.
With his fourth triumph in the Indianpolis 500, Rick Mears shared the record with Al Unser and A. J. Foyt, who at age 56 drove there for the record 34th and perhaps last time following leg injuries in a 1990 crash. Michael Andretti, winning eight races, took the Indy-car title. Dale Earnhardt earned his fifth stock-car championship, but was briefly upstaged when 51-year-old Harry Gant won four consecutive races.
In the world gymnastics championships, Kim Zmeskal, a 15-year-old Texan, was the first American to win the women's all-around title. After two consecutive Tour de France triumphs, Greg LeMond finished seventh to Spain's Miguel Indurain. Salvador Garcia of Mexico and Liz McColgan of Scotland won the New York Marathon.
For the first time in Pan American Games history, the United States didn't win the most gold medals. Cuba, the host nation, did, 140 to 130. But the Americans won the most medals, 322. The American basketball team, stocked with collegiate talent, was stunned by Puerto Rico, 73-68, and the U.S. baseball team lost to Cuba, 7-1.
As the Winter Olympics approached, A. J. Kitt was the first American in eight years to win a men's downhill on the World Cup ski tour, and 18-year-old Eric Lindros, who refused to sign with the Quebec Nordiques, loomed as Canada's hope in hockey. South Africa, reinstated by the International Olympic Committee following the end of apartheid there, intended to return in the Summer Olympics in Barcelona.
With the upheaval in the Soviet Union, the Soviet republics are not likely to be quite so dominant in the Olympics. The three seceding Baltic states (Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia) were quickly recognized by the International Olympic Committe as separate competing nations. And the structure of the new team or teams that might represent the new commonwealth of former Soviet republics is in turmoil. Another harsh reminder of the impact on sports, in 1991, of the world's raw reality.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Jordan led the Chicago Bulls to a World Championship. (R&R Sports Group); The Twins celebrated after they won the seventh game of the World Series. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Coach Bill Parcels led the New York Giants to victory in Super Bowl XXV. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); Mike Powell jumped 29 feet, 4 1/2 inches and smashed the oldest track and field world record. (AllSport); Magic Johnson stunned the world when he announced that he has the virus that causes AIDS. (Neil Leifer)(pg. 1); Meg Mallon won the Women's Open and the L.P.G.A. title. (Associated Press); Mike Tyson was indicted on a rape charge in Indiana. (Reuters); Jimmy Connors was center stage at the United States Open. (Associated Press)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); JAPAN (57%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA TWINS (72%); NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%); CHICAGO BULLS (83%); ORLANDO MAGIC (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%); CHICAGO BULLS (83%); ORLANDO MAGIC (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); JAPAN (57%); NEVADA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); TENNIS (76%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); SOCCER (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); WINTER OLYMPICS (70%); STEROIDS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); INDICTMENTS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); SENTENCING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (65%); CANCER (65%); ICE SKATING (65%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (64%); VIRUSES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); EXTORTION (62%); ETHICS (62%); SEX OFFENSES (62%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); BRAIN CANCER (60%); PRISONS (60%); COCAINE (60%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, DAVE MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



973 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Pan Am Demise Hits Caribbean

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
THE demise of Pan American World Airways on Dec. 4, on the brink of the big season in the Caribbean, has created a pinch for flights there and back.
The airline had held onto its South and Central American business despite declaring bankruptcy Jan. 8, 1991, and also its routes to the Caribbean, Mexico and Bermuda, three vacation areas where it had a longstanding reputation and where it focused its hopes for rebuilding. But Pan Am never made it into the season of bigger cash flow. And the timing of its expiration has affected both northern tourists and Caribbean nationals returning home for the holidays. In the jargon of the industry, lack of lift is affecting some islands and cruise vessels that sail from island ports. 
 Travel agents say it is now hard to find discounted seats on weekends to some places in the eastern Caribbean, and, beyond that, impossible to find any seats at all for close-in January weekends. These are the visible waves in the storm, but there is also a building undertow that may have a longer-term impact for travelers, as well as for the islands that depend upon them.
"The loss of the competition may drive prices of air fares up," said Marcella Martinez, a spokeswoman for the Caribbean Tourism Organization. "Our advantage is our lovely, inexpensive hotels and resorts. But if it costs $800 a person to get there, the advantage is eaten up."
Another travel official in the Caribbean said American Airlines was now an almost exclusive carrier in many areas, as Delta was in the South, and that discounts were tougher to negotiate. "No one has taken Pan Am's place," this official, Gene Conry of Regency Cruises, said, "just as no one took Eastern's place, so we have a compounded impact."
 
Barbados Traffic Hit
 A weekend ticket to Barbados, which is now served on a direct-flight basis from New York only by American Airlines and B.W.I.A., is a difficult item at the moment. The Caribbean Tourism Organization estimates that Pan Am brought in 30 percent of the island's United States visitors. In terms of all passengers, including visiting Barbadians, Pan Am carried 14 percent between January and July this year, compared with American Airlines' 13 percent and B.W.I.A.'s 21 percent.
According to Tom Fredo, a spokesman for the Barbados Board of Tourism, the United States is the biggest source of tourists for Barbados, and New York ranks first among the states. That means that the loss of Pan Am's daily nonstop early-morning Flight 219 from Kennedy International Airport, which got the visitor on the beach by midafternoon, represents a loss of convenience for New Yorkers as well as a loss of 150-odd seats a day. American Airlines has a daily flight leaving at 7:50 A.M. but it stops in San Juan, P.R. There is nonstop service on B.W.I.A., leaving at 9 A.M., and arriving about the same time as American, about 2:45 P.M., and these are the flights that are sold out on weekends. Anyone who is willing to connect in San Juan can get to Barbados.
Ann Oberhaus Mackin, president of Sterling Travel in Bedford Hills, N.Y., said "all of the popular destinations" -- Barbados, St. Martin and St. Thomas -- were sold out at lower fares. "I can get weekend tickets at $700," Ms. Mackin said, "but people are not going for that." Access to St. Martin, she said, is important as a gateway to places that her Westchester and Manhattan clients want to visit -- Anguilla, St. Barts and St. Thomas.
"But when I suggest midweek," Ms. Mackin said, "I am surprised at how many people can split their weeks, and then we can manage."
Other sorts of adjustments are being made by cruise companies that had put their passengers on Pan Am flights to get to departure ports. Mr. Conry of Regency Cruises said that the crush over the holidays was terrible, persisting into January. In some cases, passengers who would have flown from Newark are being bused to Kennedy to be flown to their embarkation point. "They aren't happy," said Mr. Conry, assistant manager of air-sea. "But they do understand."
United, which bought the rights to Pan Am's routes, subject to Government approval, has not yet said which services it will operate. Rumors say that Barbados is a good possibility, but Lynn Martenstein, a United spokeswoman, said on Dec. 23 that nothing had been decided.
However, before the Pan Am purchase, United announced it was starting a service from New York to Caracas, Venezuela, and then to Trinidad. This will compensate for the loss of Pan Am's daily service to Trinidad, the southernmost island in the Caribbean. United is also adding some business service to South America in February and March.
Delta began a new service into St. Thomas in mid-December from Atlanta, which may relieve some pressure there, although Pan Am ran two Virgin Island flights daily from Miami and one from New York.
 
Continental Adds Seats
 Continental and American are adjusting by shifting planes around and changing itineraries. . Continental put a wide-body plane on its Saturday service to St. Thomas and St. Croix, leaving a smaller plane on the run on the six other days. The line formerly served Montego Bay, Jamaica, and then Kingston, but dropped Kingston because of lack of demand. Ned Walker, a Continental spokesman, said this created more seats for Montego Bay. Through such steps, Mr. Walker said, Continental has increased by 13 percent its seat allocations from Newark to "key leisure destinations."
In March, American will start using widebody planes for both of its flights into Barbados through San Juan, increasing capacity by 150 seats a day. But Marty Hires, an American spokesman, said the line had not experienced great demand for Barbados. In January and February, he said, the planes were 40 percent full. In the same two months of 1990 they were only 43 percent full, he said.
A couple of travel agents said they found American unhelpful and some spokesmen for the Caribbean tourist industry said Pan Am's passing seemed to have created "an attitude problem" at American. Continental, an agent said, was more helpful and had more seats, but not all customers wanted to buy a ticket on another bankrupt airline.
Ms. Martinez of Caribbean Tourism pointed to a reality that is now a year old, or more. New Yorkers planning to go to the Caribbean in the dead of winter once made their bookings about Dec. 1. But with the bad economy and volatile ticket prices, people now wait to book until two weeks ahead, or less, so the pinch created by Pan Am means many hopeful travelers cannot get to their Caribbean destinations.
What's the best maneuver? Leave on a Tuesday or Wednesday. Or stay a day or two into the next week, which is what some Pan Am passengers did when they were stranded.
Or, you may have to allocate an extra day, but take a look at places you can reach by flying into San Juan.
And an old technique is being revived, with help from the islands: public charters on a regular schedule, weekly or more often. Key Airlines is flying tour operators' public charters from several American cities to Savannah, Ga., where flights will fan out to Caribbean points. The schedules are given in three computer services used by travel agents , but tickets must be ordered by phone.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (94%); BERMUDA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARIBBEAN AREA CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (94%); BERMUDA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NYTRAVEL; FARES; BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) AIRLINES (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); CRUISES (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); RESORTS (72%); BEACHES (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



974 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE ARTS: ART & PHOTOGRAPHY/1991;
Should They Sell? Should They Censor? Talk About Your Hard Choices

BYLINE: By Michael Kimmelman

 BODY:
The Mario Cuomo Award -- To the Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., for deciding that it cannot decide if a Greek kouros it bought for around $9 million in 1985 is a fake.
Closest Call -- Blaming what it called "adverse publicity," the Barnes Foundation withdrew its petition to a Pennsylvania court for the right to go against the wishes of its founder and sell paintings from its remarkable collection. 
 Biggest Miscalculation -- The hitherto diffident National Museum of American Art in Washington provoked charges of censorship when it threatened to exclude from an exhibition a work by Sol LeWitt. The museum's director deemed it "degrading and offensive" to women.
Second Biggest Miscalculation -- The hitherto diffident National Museum of American Art in Washington provoked charges of political correctness with its haranguing presentation of the exhibition "West as America."
Best One-Two Combination by a Painter -- A tie between Brice Marden and Chuck Close, each of whom organized provocative exhibitions drawn from the collections of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, respectively, and followed those up with outstanding solo shows.
Best One-Two Combination by a Sculptor -- Vito Acconci for his gigantic bras at the Gladstone Gallery and his gigantic clamshell in the Whitney Biennial.
Art vs. Architecture, Round 1 -- A knockdown of art at the new Frankfurt Museum of Modern Art.
Art vs. Architecture, Round 2 -- A draw at the National Gallery of London's new Sainsbury Wing, whose exterior was derided as "mediocre slime" in one architecture magazine but whose interior proved hospitable to the sublime collection of Italian Renaissance paintings.
Alarming Signs That the Recession Has Hit the Museum World -- The closed galleries and curtailed visiting hours at the Brooklyn Museum and Detroit Institute of Arts because of cutbacks in public support, and the decision by the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston to raise cash by renting works from its collection to a museum in Japan.
Signs That the Museum World Is Flourishing Nonetheless -- The retrospectives of Andre Breton and Gericault in Paris, of Seurat in Paris and New York, of Constable in London, and of Liubov Popova, Stuart Davis and Ad Reinhardt in New York and Los Angeles.
Most Inspired Idea for a Show -- The partial re-creation by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art of "Degenerate Art," the exhibition organized by the Nazis in Munich in 1937.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Descent From the Cross," by Max Beckmann, from "Degenerate Art" (Los Angeles County Museum of Art); Vito Acconci's "Adjustable Wall Bras," at the Gladstone Gallery, complemented his huge clamshell at the Whitney. (Larry Lame/Barbara Gladstone Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (71%); FRANCE (65%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (83%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (83%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (71%); FRANCE (65%); GERMANY (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%); 

SUBJECT: ART; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); CENSORSHIP (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); PETITIONS (77%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (74%); SOL LEWITT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



975 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 13; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2599 words

HEADLINE: Experiencing the Spirit of Zen

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD; JAMES STERNGOLD is a correspondent in the Tokyo bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
PASS through the weathered wooden gate of Kyoto's huge Daitokuji temple complex, walk along the mud and stone walls of hidden gardens, past the schoolchildren taking a short cut through the old cedars, and at the north end of this neatly manicured realm, turn up a narrow walled path and, to the left, enter the nondescript little gate marked with a faded wooden sign that reads "Zazen."
Inside lies a Japan that few foreigners -- or Japanese, for that matter -- come in contact with these days. It is not just an entry to an exquisite Zen Buddhist temple and handsome garden, of which there are many in Kyoto, but to a place where zazen -- sitting meditation -- is a way of life and not a cultural curiosity. 
 In this case, it is also a way open to foreigners. For those who have read Alan Watts or D. T. Suzuki, two famous Zen Buddhist scholars, and wondered about the world they describe, for those who like to travel and also to meditate, or for those who wish to encounter a different, if increasingly isolated Japan, there are still many urban and rural zazen centers to explore.
It is a rigorous discipline certainly not accessible to everyone, although not the remote, esoteric practice that some made zazen out to be in the 1960's. Zazen can be extremely relaxing as well as a way to see Japan with a more appreciative eye.
Much of the country's greatest art, be it haiku poetry, calligraphy, ink-drawn scrolls, the tea ceremony, flower arranging or even traditional garden design have been inspired by the austere and elusive Zen spirit. To practice Zen meditation surrounded by the culture is a way of touching the esthetic more deeply than through a casual visit.
That is an especially important alternative approach to Japan at a time when it is viewed increasingly by the West, and even many Japanese, as an aggressive economic machine devoted to the computer chip and the Walkman. The country is not the spiritual, antimaterialist haven some 1960's enthusiasts mistakenly made it out to be, but neither is it just a predatory industrial juggernaut without a soul. It is a complicated society, and zazen helps bring that out.
The zazen centers range from mountain redoubts where the adepts live ascetic lives, to open centers in some big cities where visitors are welcomed at regular meditation sessions under the guidance of experienced priests. Foreigners can take part by stopping by for an hour or two at designated times or, in some instances, by staying for several days of meditation, work and typical vegetarian cuisine.
Don't expect a Magical Mystery Tour with levitating swamis and out of body experiences, however. While some forms of transcendental meditation popular in the United States promise such experiences, zazen is a quieter and more personal discipline. It is about finding a higher reality through concentration, not escaping reality. In simpler terms, zazen is an attempt to put the normal cares and concerns of the day behind for a short while, and even distance oneself from the rigors of common logic; thoughts are not erased, they just flow in and out with great freedom. Zazen can also be physically grueling for those unused to spending long periods of time in the lotus or half-lotus positions, but not a terrible challenge for those who are reasonably limber.
Zen Buddhism came to Japan from China, where it flowered in the sixth century. In the 12th century it began to spread through Japan. In the process it took on unique traits and began to influence the arts, under the guidance of several famous Zen priests.
It differs from other schools of Buddhism in many ways, but two key points are its emphasis on making meditation its central tenet rather than adherence to a particular scripture or doctrine and a lack of the elements usually associated with a religion. D. T. Suzuki preferred to describe Zen as "a cloud floating in the sky," rather than as an organized religion. Indeed, Zen is most often defined by describing what it is not.
This may be difficult for Westerners to grasp, but religion in general plays a very different role in Japan. People rarely worship, in the Western sense, and freely mix rituals from Shinto, Buddhism and Christianity to mark events like marriages or funerals. Few, in fact, practice zazen, not many Zen temples have zazen sessions, and even those who do meditate do not always consider themselves Zen Buddhists. It is not considered a form of worship, but a discipline, a way to self-knowledge, or simply a way to unwind. It is not, for instance, comparable to taking Holy Communion in a Catholic church. Thus, people of many religions feel comfortable trying zazen without a sense that it calls into question their religious devotion.
Zen's influence over the culture has spread in part because Japan's rulers began to patronize Zen hundreds of years ago. Zen was thus adopted by the highest classes, and through them its principles began to shape a range of Japanese arts, stripping away the seemingly frivolous and creating meaning with impressively austere metaphors or flicks of the brush.
It is one of the many contradictions -- and attractions -- of Zen that it has so few serious followers in Japan yet has come to seem the very essence of Japanese culture.
There is no orthodox zazen routine, and even within the various Zen sects different priests follow slightly different paths. They all include some form of sitting, usually on pillows set on mats, for periods of an hour or more. It is a good idea, although not essential, to have had some experience before meditating at the Japanese centers. Many of the centers also perform walking meditation, known as kinhin, which is less demanding.
Staying overnight or for several days at some of the zazen centers generally follows an even more rigorous routine. The food is all vegetarian, the days usually begin early, sometimes at 3:30 A.M., and one's time is divided between meditation, instruction, chores and eating, with only a little free time. Most activities are communal.
Take, for instance, a session at Ryosen-an, the temple that lies behind the zazen sign at Daitokuji in Kyoto. The sessions usually begin at 7 A.M. (Those who need English instruction should show up a half hour earlier. The abbot, Taiun Matsunami, speaks excellent English.) At that hour, Kyoto is whisper quiet, with dew on the leaves and little sense of the modern city it has become.
Ryosen-an was rebuilt after the war by an American, Ruth Fuller Sasaki, who was not only a devoted Zen Buddhist but did some important translations of Buddhist works into English. She died in 1968. As a result of her work the center tries to have an American woman in residence, said Taiun-san. He insists on "appropriate dress," which means loose-fitting clothing that covers the arms and the legs.
The first impression on entering the open meditation hall, in a traditional wood building facing a garden, is a faint scent of incense. You remove shoes and socks, bow to the altar and then choose a spot on the woven straw tatami mats, where you settle on two firm pillows. The room is generally the same temperature as outside, so one should have somewhat warmer clothes in winter.
Taiun-san describes the proper way to sit -- he prefers a half-lotus, a cross-legged position with the right leg under the left and the knees pressing forward on the pillow. The three important points are posture, a straight back and relaxed shoulders, breathing, which you count to make it even and deep, and the eyes remaining open enough to let light in, but not enough to see anything clearly.
The aim is to "still the waters of the mind," as Taiun-san puts it, to escape normal rational thought and to observe oneself from a removed perspective. Some forms of zazen use a technique of focusing on a koan, or a kind of riddle built around a contradictory statement -- "When you clap your hands together a sound arises. Listen to the sound of one hand." -- to paralyze, in a sense, routine ways of thinking and achieve a different state. Taiun-san, however, teaches students to focus on their breathing, so that one's thoughts flow in and flow out with the air.
The meditation begins with the resonant peal of a bell, which Taiun-san rings four times. He then leads the group in a walking meditation, in which you pace slowly, eyes barely open, around the perimeter of the room. After about four turns, the pace picks up, the only sound a slight shuffling and breathing.
Participants then resume the half-lotus position on the pillows. There is no sound. What many beginners find most difficult is keeping their eyes open just the right amount. When the eyes close totally, there is a tendencyto fall asleep, which is when the famous wooden stick or paddle comes in. Its use can differ slightly in each temple, but in general it is wielded by a priest and applied lightly to heads and shoulders to make sure participants stay awake and to ease the strain of weary muscles. The bell is rung once to mark the end of the hour.
For those who want to plunge into an extended experience with zazen in a wonderful location, Eiheiji, one of the main temples of the Soto Zen sect, offers stays of up to three days. English-speaking visitors can arrange to have an interpreter on hand. The temple is situated in lush mountains near the Japan Sea, not far from Fukui City. The schedule is rigorous. The grounds, which are kept spick-and-span by the zazen practitioners, are quite handsome, with huge and lovely old cedars.
One must be familiar with sitting in the half-lotus position to take on a longer visit. Visitors are expected to act like trainees. The routine begins in late afternoon, when visitors arrive, bathe privately, and then have supper as a group at 5 P.M. Shortly afterwards a video offering instruction is shown, and there is a zazen session. Everyone is in bed at 9 P.M. Private rooms are available for small mixed groups, but generally men and women sleep separately, in Japanese-style beds, futon on tatami mats.
The next day gets off to a very early start -- at 3:30 A.M. The first zazen begins 20 minutes later for about an hour. That is followed by a morning service of chanting sutras, or Buddhist texts, and reading and a tour of the temple's beautiful grounds. Visitors will be taught the few words they need to know for chanting. A light vegetarian breakfast of tofu, vegetables and tea is served at 7 A.M. Participants then do chores, mostly cleaning stairs and other areas of the temple, until the late-morning zazen starts at 10 A.M. Lunch is served to all at noon, followed by another work period and then more zazen, from 2 to 4 P.M. Dinner is at 5 P.M., followed by a late meditation session, then back to bed before rising early again for the last day's meditation and departure.
There is only a little free time for participants. They can chat and mix, but not during the meditation sessions. For the most part, one's time is tightly controlled.
To adepts, zazen can be a means to everything from self-knowledge to contentment. It is also a form of deep relaxation in a serene place for those whose expectations run to something less than enlightenment.
Tom Wright, an American who has lived in Kyoto for 24 years and is a priest in the Soto sect, prefers the word sitting to meditation. His sect uses no koan or other verbal focus, but attempts in zazen to reduce the influence of the ego and just let thoughts flow by in uninterrupted form. "My advice to newcomers to zazen is not to suppress, not to reject, and not to chase after," Mr. Wright said.
 
 
 
TEMPLES WHERE THE VISITOR IS WELCOME TO SIT AND CONTEMPLATE
 Following are a handful of the many zazen centers that can be visited in Japan. These temples can recommend others, and the Japan National Tourist Office in Kyoto can also help; telephone (075) 371-5649.
 
Fukui City
 Kokusaibu Eiheiji, Eiheiji-cho, Yoshida-gun, Fukui-ken, 910-12; telephone (0776) 63-3640.
The center, near Fukui City, about 200 miles west of Tokyo, was founded in the 13th century and is a training ground for priests. Its lovely tree-shaded grounds also attract scores of tourists, mostly Japanese. Five hours from Tokyo by bullet train and then regular train to Fukui City; then by bus.
Sanzensha, or lay practice, is set up as a three-night, two-day stay. Guests are expected to bring loose-fitting clothes in subdued colors and white socks. The Japanese priests wear tabi, the cotton socks with an articulation between the big and second toes (so they can be worn with sandals). The temples will lend guests the loose robes worn for meditation, meals and other functions. An interpreter can be provided.
The sanzensha schedule costs $23.50 a night (calculated at 127 yen to the dollar), including meals, a bargain for a stay at such a lovely spot, with extra charges for laundry and some of the implements needed. A more intensive program, called sanrosha, lasts two days and one night and costs $55..
Reservations should be made more than a month ahead, by mail, with international reply coupons included. Applicants should provide name, address, phone number, age, sex, reason for wanting to experience zazen at Eiheiji, general health and preferred dates for the visit. Alternative dates should be provided.
 
 
Kamakura
 Engakuji, 409 Yamanouchi, Kamakura-shi, Kanagawa-ken; (0467) 22-0478.
On the tree-shaded north side of Kamakura, Engakuji is one of the lovelier spots to practice zazen, but it is for those already adept at meditation. Kamakura, about an hour south of Tokyo, was an ancient capital and is filled with temples and shrines. Engakuji, a two-minute walk from the Kita-Kamakura train station, on the Yokosuka line, was founded in 1282. Engakuji does not provide instruction in English. Zazen is held every day from 5:30 to 6:30 A.M. from March to October, and from 6 to 7:00 A.M. from November to February. There is no charge; call to double check time.
 
Kyoto
 Sosenji, Takakura Gojo Kudaru, Shimokyo-ku, Kyoto-shi; (075) 351-4270. Tom Wright can be reached at (075) 752-0421.
Sesenji is not far from the main Kyoto train station. It is also a Soto Zen temple, and is open to visitors for zazen on the first and third Mondays of every month (except January and August). The sessions run from 6 to 9 P.M. It is free of charge, and Mr. Wright offers instruction in English.
Ryosen-an, 107 Daitokuji-cho, Murasakino, Kita-ku, Kyoto-shi; (075) 491-0543.
Ryosen-an, a Rinzai Zen temple, can be reached by taking the number 205 bus from the Kyoto station. It takes about 35 minutes. Reservations must be made. The sessions are held on Wednesday and Sunday from 7 to 8:30 A.M. Taiun Matsunami, the abbot, provides English instruction, if necessary, starting at 6:30 A.M.
 
Yokohama
 Sojiji, 2-1-1 Tsurumi, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama City 230; (045) 581-6021.
An hour's train ride south of Tokyo, Sojiji goes out of its way to welcome guests, foreign as well as Japanese, and has put together seven different programs, running from a few hours to eight days, depending on one's appetite for the discipline. The temple is a campus-like cluster of buildings in a commercial neighborhood. Sojiji is the other principal temple in the Soto Zen sect. Ikuo Azuma, a pleasant, elderly priest with a warm and welcoming air, offers instruction in English. The cost is $39 a night, including meals, and $8 for the shorter sessions. Reservations are required. Sojiji is about a five-minute walk from the Tsurumi station, on the Keihin Tohoku line.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The garden courtyard at Ryosen-an, in the Daitokuji temple complex in Kyoto. Ryosen-an was rebuilt after the war by an American Zen devotee. Banner at lecture hall, Sojiji, Yokohama: "Dignified, Imposing, Stately" Young priests scrubbing stairway to the Imperial Gate at Eiheiji, Fukui City. A priest with wooden paddle patrols Sojiji meditation room. (pg. 13); Tom Wright, an American-born Soto Zen priest and contact for English-speaking foreigners at Sosenji, Kyoto. (pg. 14)(Photographs by Ellen Rudolph)
 
Map of Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CHUBU JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: KYOTO, JAPAN (91%); YOKOHAMA, JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); KYOTO, JAPAN (91%); YOKOHAMA, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MEDITATION; BUDDHISM RELIGION (91%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); MEDITATION (90%); GARDENING (78%); CHILDREN (73%); POETRY (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (63%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



976 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE ARTS: DANCE/1991;
Mocking American Mores, And Shaking Off a Royal Slump

BYLINE: By Jack Anderson

 BODY:
Oddest Successful Classical Revival -- Peter Martins's New York City Ballet production of "The Sleeping Beauty" sparkled with brilliant dancing, yet its breakneck pace robbed the fairy tale of magic and humanity.
Rugged Individualists, Still -- Pina Bausch, Meredith Monk and Phoebe Neville continued to go their own choreographic ways, and it remains exciting to follow them. 
 Heartening Comeback -- The overall high standards of the Royal Ballet of London during its New York season suggested that this troupe has pulled itself out of a creative slump.
Rewarding Pilgrimage -- It was worth a journey to England to see the Birmingham Royal Ballet's revival of "Choreartium," Leonide Massine's monumentally scaled masterpiece.
Rhythmic Wonders -- Slapping their bodies while swaying and twisting, the participants in the "Music and Dance of Sumatra" program at the Joyce Theater made astonishing music out of their dancing.
Serious Jesters -- Donald Byrd in "The Minstrel Show" and Stephanie Skura in "The Bad Play" provoked thought as well as laughter by spoofing theatrical conventions and satirizing American society.
Soulful Soloist -- Alarmel Valli's recital of Indian Bharata Natyam dancing invested technically intricate movements with spiritual radiance.
Perpetual Question -- Does the proliferation of abstract ballets in the style of George Balanchine represent a development of the Balanchine tradition or a reduction of that tradition to dry compositional formulas?
Storm Clouds -- Attempts to place content restrictions on works eligible for National Endowment for the Arts grants, as well as the slashing of arts budgets due to nationwide economic troubles, still darken the dance scene.
In Memoriam -- Although Martha Graham, Margot Fonteyn, Richard Englund, Robert Irving, Roman Jasinski, Eleanor King, Irina Nijinska, Ruth Page, Olga Spessivtzeva, Edward Stierle and Muriel Stuart died this year, they continue to enrich our lives with their talents.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Meredith Monk, left, and Robert Een in Ms. Monk's "Facing North" (Beatriz Schiller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); INDONESIA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); INDONESIA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE BALLET (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, JACK PETER MARTINS (74%); MEREDITH JANE MONK (58%); LEONIDE FEDOROVICH MASSINE (56%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



977 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 23; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE ARTS: VIDEO & AUDIO/1991;
It's a Great Movie. Now, if They Can Just Get It Into the Cassette.

BYLINE: By Peter M. Nichols

 BODY:
Biggest -- It earned $185 million at the box office and won seven Academy Awards, but "Dances With Wolves" was never bigger than in its first week in video stores, when the nearly 1,200 feet of tape required for the three-hour movie frequently caused it to spill off its spools and jam inside the cassette.
You Heard the Man -- "There will be no colorized 'Citizen Kane,' " said Martin Weinstein, vice president of Turner Home Entertainment, on the occasion of the classic's 50th-anniversary release in August. 
 Wait, It Gets Worse -- Carrying on the tradition of extremely bad major motion pictures that do well in video stores were "Bonfire of the Vanities" in April and, pushed out there last month, "Hudson Hawk," both of them top renters.
Best How-To -- In the catalogue for its Library of African Cinema video series, California Newsreel had these suggestions for those watching movies by African film makers: "Scenes unfold at a measured pace, with the deliberation of story-telling or folk tales. . . don't fight these differences; try to appreciate the timeless rhythms and ordered life of a less industrialized society. . . imagine what these same stories would look like if they had been directed by Spike Lee or David Lynch, starring Eddie Murphy. . . ."
Best Beginner -- "Fantasia," out for the first time last month, is O.K., but even better is "Les Enfants du Paradis" ("Children of Paradise"), the Marcel Carne masterpiece released in September.
Here, Try Mine -- Promoting his own documentary about Jim Morrison and the Doors, the rock group's keyboardist, Ray Manzarek, said this about Oliver Stone's film "The Doors," released on tape about the same time: "He made us look like jerks. . . . Everything Oliver Stone didn't portray, that's what I portray."
What Next? -- In a scheme to get video stores to buy more copies of hot releases, Rank Video Services, a tape duplicator in California, came up with a cassette that erases the movie after 25 plays.
All Together Now -- "Three Tenors in Concert," starring Luciano Pavarotti, Placido Domingo and Jose Carreras, climbed to No. 3 on the Billboard video best-seller list, the highest spot ever for a classical performance title.
Best Offer of the Recession -- A seven-cassette "Godfather" Collectors Edition with the three Coppola films and a how-they-made-it documentary, for $150.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean-Louis Barrault in the French classic "Les Enfants du Paradis" Mickey Mouse in "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" from "Fantasia" (Walt Disney Company); Andie MacDowell and Bruce Willis in "Hudson Hawk" (Tri-Star Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: RANK VIDEO SERVICES AMERICA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDINGS (VIDEO); NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); TICKET SALES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); MAGNETIC & OPTICAL MEDIA MFG (76%); FOLKLORE (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); POP & ROCK (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, PETER M EDDIE MURPHY (58%); BRUCE WILLIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



978 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE ARTS: ANTIQUES/1991;
Baseball Cards, Blobs and Bauble It Was That Kind of a Year In the Art Market

BYLINE: By Rita Reif

 BODY:
Score One for Reunification -- The manuscript of most of Gustav Mahler's unfinished Symphony No. 10 escaped the auction block when the Austrian National Library bought it just one day before it was to be sold by Sotheby's. The library has long owned the rest of the manuscript.
Recession-Proof Silver -- A sterling rococo dish by the 18th-century silversmith Paul de Lamerie was sold for $2.6 million at Christie's, defying the downward trend in prices for most antiques. 
 Pioneering Performance -- Space-age masks proved as terrifying and magical as those from ancient and tribal cultures at the Museum of Modern Art's exhibition "Modern Masks and Helmets," a first on the subject.
A Bounty for a Bauble Box -- Marie Antoinette's jewelry-cabinet-on-a-stand brought $4.9 million at a court-ordered sale in Paris of the collection of Roberto Polo, the Cuban-born financier who became a fugitive. The buyer, the French banker and sugar king Jean Marc Vernes, said that upon his death the piece would return to Versailles.
Two Out of Three -- Determined to repatriate all three of the American Indian ceremonial masks she bought for $39,050 at Sotheby's, Elizabeth Sackler returned two to the Hopi nation. The third is being studied by two other tribes.
Kwakiutl Treasures From the Attic -- Stored for 90 years at the American Museum of Natural History, 120 masks, bowls and figures from its stunning collection of art from the Northwest Coast tribe were displayed at an acclaimed exhibition.
A Fortune for Ephemera -- A 1910 baseball card showing Honus Wagner, the Pittsburg Pirates shortstop, became the costliest single collectible ever auctioned when it was sold for $451,000 at Sotheby's to Wayne Gretzky, the Los Angeles Kings hockey superstar, and Bruce McNall, the club's owner.
Ancient Mystery -- Despite a three-year restoration, little new information was revealed about the witty Paracas tapestry of masked figures at the Brooklyn Museum, although the 2,000-year-old pre-Columbian work, depicting a glorious feast, remains one of the museum's most satisfying objects.
Banner Year for Blobs -- The biomorphic style of the mid-20th century -- as seen in the amoeba-shaped tables of Isamu Noguchi, the curvy chairs of Charles and Ray Eames, and the chubby salt-and-pepper shakers of Eva Zeisel -- took place of pride at three New York exhibitions: at the I.B.M. Gallery, the Museum of Modern Art and the Brooklyn Museum.
Intimacy in Cosmic Scenes -- In the most important Japanese screen exhibition ever held in this country, "The Triumph of Japanese Style" at the Cleveland Museum of Art, bold strokes captured sweeping landscapes, epic legends and the entire city of Kyoto, yet always with delicate, humanizing details.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Charles Eames chair, at the Museum of Modern Art (Museum of Modern Art); A 1910 baseball card showing the Pittsburgh Pirates shortstop Honus Wagner, which brought a record $451,000. A jewelry box made for Marie Antoinette, which fetched $4.9 million at a sale in Paris (Sotheby's); A Paul de Lamerie silver dish (Christie's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (85%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES; TRADING CARDS; BASEBALL; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ICE HOCKEY (79%); HISTORY (76%); ART COLLECTING (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: REIF, RITA

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



979 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Hope Dims for Saving a Millbrook Mansion

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: MILLBROOK, N.Y.

 BODY:
DECAY chips relentlessly at Halcyon Hall, a vast and vacant 200-room mansion built in the Tudor style that for nearly a century has towered over the rustic village homes of Millbrook, N.Y, like a lord over his serfs. But the market is weak and government agencies are feuding, and a result is that the building may be beyond repair -- assuming there is anyone ready to undertake that task.
Halcyon Hall may become one of the more dramatic examples in the Northeast of the architectural losses in prospect as agencies like the Resolution Trust Corporation, charged with disposing of thousands of foreclosed properties as efficently and economically as possible, overwhelm other agencies seeking to preserve these symbols of the nation's history. 
 For the last year, Halycon Hall has been snared in a controversy pitting the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation against the goals of the National Register of Historic Places. The F.D.I.C., through its marketing agency, has been trying to block the Hall's nomination as a landmark to keep marketing options wide open. The New York State Office of Historic Preservation has continued to champion the nomination, arguing that it could help keep Halycon Hall standing.
Friends of Halcyon Hall, a group organized to save the Hall, maintains that such feuding has not only held up the nomination but also has resulted in fewer attempts to stabilize the structure. "It's already open to the elements and anyone can just walk in," said David Sloan, the group's executive director.
Similar clashes are occurring over historic buildings in such places as Colorado, New Hampshire and the District of Columbia. And lawyers say it may be a long time before a definitive conclusion can be reached on whose objectives take precedent.
In the meantime, said Andrea Ferster, an assistant general counsel to the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a private, nonprofit organization, "agencies like the R.T.C. and F.D.I.C. are not even making minimal efforts to maintain the historic properties they have in inventory."
Instead, she maintained, they are selling to the highest bidder. "They're certainly not insisting on the kind of protective convenants other Federal agencies put in place before they sell off the historic buildings they might own," she added.
Properties she is monitoring that she insists are facing such problems include an opera house in Telluride, Colo., and an old Spanish mission in San Augustine, Tex.
But Andrew Porterfield, a spokesman for the F.D.I.C., said that, in general, his agency did not "just let these properties rot while we're preparing them for sale." He also said the agency gives preservation groups a 60-day exclusive marketing period for all historic properties and provides 100 percent financing.
KATE SPEARS, a spokeswoman for the R.T.C., said it also routinely alerts local preservation groups before placing such properties on the market. In fact, she noted, a building in in a Biloxi, Miss., historic district was recently given free to a community group after a determination that the building would have "no redeeming recovery value."
Preservationists, however, are seeking legislation to force the agencies to take more substantial steps to preserve historic structures in their inventory. One of the first proposals, sponsored by Representative Bruce F. Vento of Minnesota and Peter Hoagland of Nebraska, both Democrats, would require the R.T.C. to maintain historic properties at the same standard as when they were first received into inventory.
The amendment was dropped but a spokesman for Mr. Vento said the Represented intended to reintroduce it in March.
It is little wonder, then, that future of Halcyon Hall, caught in the middle of the agency wars, appears far from halcyon. It historic signifcance, however, is in little doubt. "Its an absolute landmark," insisted Gary Ciferri, Mayor of Millbrook, a well-to-do town noted for its horse breeders.
Utilizing expensive cobblestone foundations, half timbering, leaded-glass windows, patterned wood shingles, towers and broad terraces, the main strucuture was built in the 1890's as a luxury hotel combined with a country retreat for Henry J. Davison Jr, a publisher. But it was soon turned into a girls' finishing school and eventually became Bennett College.
IT has been empty since Bennett College went bankrupt in 1978. It was then repossessed by the New York Bank for Savings and has been mired in financial problems since.
The subsequent owner also defaulted before doing anything with the property. Once again it was repossessed by the New York Bank for Savings. In 1983, James J. O'Dea, a Millbrook developer and civil engineer, bought the 34-acre campus and its 250,000 square feet of buildings from the bank for about $10 a square foot and a willingness to pay off $700,000 in unpaid property taxes.
HE turned the newer dormitories into Halcyon Village, a 38-unit condominum complex completed in the mid-80's. He took the president's house and 7 acres for his own use. And he planned to turn the original buildings into a conference center at an estimated cost of $9 million.
Although the town was behind the idea ("we would have even entertained tax incentives," said Mr. Ciferri), Mr. O'Dea's ambitious plans never materalized. He sold the Hall in 1989 together with some of the remaining "smaller pieces" for $2 million to a development affiliate of Mechanics and Farmers Savings Bank of Bridgeport, Conn. New talk of redevelopment began, "but no formal proposals were received," said Mr. Ceferrai. In October 1991 the Bridgeport bank failed and certain assets it owned, including Halcyon Hall, fell to the F.D.I.C.
In December the New York State Office of Historic Preservation approved the hall's nomination to the National Register -- put forward by the local preservation group in the spring of 1991. The agency eventually went ahead, said Lloyd Adams, its counsel, since the objections did not come from a private owner. Only a private owner can legitimately object to a nomination, he asserted.
Mr. O'Dea considers the move suicidal, arguing that nomination will deter a buyer since it could add "at least $3 million" to any redevelopment program and thus may further depress the appeal of the hall. And George T. Whalen, Jr., president of the Bank of Millbrook, thinks that after a decade of decay, chances of redeeming the hall are dim even though its probable market value is now nominal, given the tight commercial lending climate.
But Friends of Halcyon Hall haven't given up. They are trying to interest developers even though they do not have ownership. They are working with local officials to create more specific tax incentives. And they are trying to force the F.D.I.C. to better maintain it.
"We're going to give it our best shot," said Mr. Sloan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Halcyon Hall, 200-room mansion in Millbrook, N.Y. David Sloan has led the effort to save the building, which is rapidly deteriorating. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE (NYS); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE (NYS); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC) RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILLBROOK (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HALCYON HALL (MILLBROOK, NY); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: SLOAN, DAVID; BROOKS, ANDREE DAVID BROOKS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



980 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Mortgages;
Whether To Retain A Broker

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
IT'S increasingly likely that anyone seeking to finance or refinance a home may be planning to do so through a mortgage broker. The Federal National Mortgage Association, the nation's largest investor in home mortgages, estimates that by the end of 1991 about 37 percent of all mortgages it is financing originated through brokers, compared with 27 percent in 1989.
A mortgage broker acts as an intermediary between borrower and lender, seeking the best rates and terms for the borrower by shopping among many lenders and helping compile the documentation needed to qualify the borrower. 
 The use of mortgage brokers for residential transactions dates to the recession of the early 80's, when mortgage lending ground to a halt. Some institutional lending officers thrown out of work began offering to bring in to their former employers and other bankers home-buying customers and handle all the loan-originationpaperwork in exchange for a percentage of the origination charges. Some estate brokers followed suit, viewing it as a way to earn an extra commission.
However, so many people with questionable credentials began rushing into the business and controls remained so limited that regulatory agencies began receiving an avalanche of complaints about shoddy dealings -- the most common being over upfront fees retained for loans that never materialized.
As a result, some 34 states now license mortgage brokers to regulate conduct and set a minimum level of proficiency. Further, the 15-year-old National Association of Mortgage Brokers has been working to raise industry standards and instill a stricter code of ethics.
Even so, sentiment remains mixed over using a mortgage broker. Consider, for example, the contrasting experiences of William and Victoria Masters of Manhattan and Beth Carpenter of Stamford, Conn.
Mr. and Mrs. Masters, who work long hours in television production, initially turned to a broker because they did not have time to shop for a loan. But they maintain that their application for a $225,00 loan was delayed so long by the broker that it nearly cost them the triplex apartment they were buying in lower Manhattan.
With no approval in sight and no apparent reason for the holdup, Mr. Masters said, they decided to withdraw their application and seek a lender directly. They got a commitment in a few days, he said, but it took months to get the broker to return their $500 in application fees.
Beth Carpenter, on the other hand, says she might never have got a low-cost, fixed- rate $90,000 loan had she not used a mortgage broker. A single mother on a tight budget, she had been turned down for a fixed-rate loan by the bank where she normally does business.
The bank had been willing to provide only a variable-rate loan. Unwilling to accept this because she feared future fluctuations in payments, Ms. Carpenter contacted a mortgage broker, who persuaded another lender that Ms. Carpenter was indeed qualified for the loan she sought.
All this suggests caution but also potential. Bankers confirm that a reputable broker can indeed be most valuable when borrowers are too busy to complete forms themselves. "We will even go to your house," said Joanne Satmary, executive vice president of the Source Mortgage Group in Fairfield, Conn.
Mortgage brokers are also useful when a borrower needs guidance in selecting the most suitable mortgage and help in filling out forms. And they can be crucial when a borrower's personal financial circumstances or the property are problematic.
"Only last month we were able to show a banker that if he had included the borrower's dividend income in his calculations the man would have qualified," said Ms. Satmary. "We're the borrower's advocate."
Even so, a mortgage broker should still be chosen with care. "We still get" complaints, said David Tedeschi, a spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Banking, echoing the views of officials in other states.
ONE safeguard is to make sure the intended broker is licensed, where applicable, and a member of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers or, even better, if that broker has ever been an officer of a local chapter. For a referral, call the association at (602) 992-6181 or write: NAMB, 706 East Bell Road, Suite 101, Phoenix, Ariz. 85022.
The association can also provide information about its standards. Jill Hoogendyk, the associate director, said borrowers should also ask for a detailed accounting of estimated fees in advance. The only initial fees the broker should request, she said, are the $300 to $500 needed to process an application and do an appraisal and credit check.
The subsequent charge -- normally 1 to 1 1/2 percent of the loan amount -- is due when the loan has been granted by a lender, known as "the "commitment." But even this charge, she said, is normally payable only on closing.
"We always allow our customers to wait," said Margaret S. Scott, president of Mortgage Advisory Services of Manhattan and of the Mortgage Brokers Association of New York City.
Before making a decision Ms. Scott said, a borrower should also ask the mortgage broker for the number of lenders it represents. Some brokers, she asserted, have affiliations with only a handful of lenders and a borrower should be aware of this limitation in advance. It can range from a half dozen to 30 or more.
Borrowers might also wish to check with the state licensing authority -- normally the Department of Banking -- to see if any complaints have been received lately about a broker they plan to use.
Experts say it's important to keep in mind that a mortgage broker should never cost a borrower more than going directly to a lender since the broker makes money by sharing the origination fees with the lender -- not by charging extra. Nor should it take longer. Whether a broker can indeed provide the borrower with the lowest possible rates and terms, as many claim to do, still seems to be a matter of speculation and may be impossible to verify.
To be sure they aren't overpaying, said Nicholas Lore, senior vice president of Manhattan Savings Bank, borrowers should also shop around to get a handle on prevailing rates and terms -- if only by making a few phone calls and checking newspapers. They might also wish to double-check with the lender, when told by the broker who it will be, to make sure they aren't being charged more by that lender than if they had walked through the door themselves.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); ETHICS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



981 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



982 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Cars Trickle Back To Pedestrian Malls

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
DOWNTOWN pedestrian malls, which spread across the country in the 1960's and '70's, have been plagued in recent years with slumping sales and a severe image problem.
It is estimated that there are 200 of them, and many were unable to compete successfully in the 80's with the more modern malls and shopping centers on the cities' outskirts. Shoppers tended to dismiss many of the pedestrian malls -- sometimes little more than repaved older streets closed to traffic -- as inconvenient and inaccessible. 
 But the cities have not stopped trying to find ways to attract shoppers to their pedestrian malls -- often part of the main street in a smaller community or, in a big city, a major commercial street functioning as the downtown of a large neighborhood. Now many of the smaller cities that have created downtown malls, among them Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Oak Park, Ill., and Santa Monica, Calif., think they have the solution: reopening all or part of them to traffic.
In Poughkeepsie, in Dutchess County, it was a case of returning a section of the mall to the way it was before 1974. At that time, the city connected shops and department stores, some dating to the mid-1800's, with a concrete walkway. This linear shopping corridor, with benches and landscaping, and gazebos at each end, starts at Market Street, the city's main artery, and stretches east for three blocks.
For a while it thrived, with large department stores, like Wallace Company and Luckey Platt, which had a loyal following in the city since 1867. But the mall soon felt a sharp business decline as anchors and other stores left, some moving to shopping centers and enclosed malls being built on Route 9. The easternmost block of the mall was hit hardest and never really recovered.
Then, in July, the city decided to open the block up to traffic. The street now accommodates one lane of traffic and has free one-hour parking for more than 50 cars.
"Even though it's only been opened a short time, we've already seen very positive results," said Kathryn LaVanche, executive director of the Poughkeepsie Partnership, a group dedicated to revitalizing the city's downtown.
On an average weekday, merchants have clocked 160 cars on the street every hour. "The fact that the parking is free seems to be really important," said Ms. LaVanche. She explained that the mall now has several parking lots and garages, and all charge around 40 cents an hour to park. "It's laughable," she said, "but even that small a price seems to make a difference to people."
The street's opening has also attracted new businesses, resulting in its vacancy rate's declining from 31 percent to 10.7 percent. And seven formerly vacant properties now have new owners or tenants.
One of those new tenants is the Dutchess County Health Department, which now occupies a 35,000-square-foot building. The department, with 125 employees, signed a five-year lease on the building in November 1990 when the street's reopening was still in the planning stages.
"THE building has a parking lot in the back, but the idea that people would also be able to drive up to the front of the building and park was a real positive for us," said Richard C. Sewell, acting commissioner of health for Dutchess County. "Especially for our night clinics when people might feel safer parking in front of the building."
Mr. Sewell said that the department has been so happy with the location that it has just extended its lease to 10 years.
Merchants on the street think the reopening helped bolster Christmas sales this year.
"I think we did better than some of the malls, from what I've been hearing," said Stephen Browne, store manager for Woolworth's, the largest retailer on the street. "We've always attracted customers who live in the city and who walk over. But now we're also getting ones who would rather drive over here than head out to the highway to an outside mall."
Shopkeepers also believe the street's novelty worked in their favor.
"People came down just to see the change," said Paul S. Mancarella, co-owner of De's Jewelers. "I think there's a curiosity factor that's drawing customers."
"Once they're here," he said, "we have the chance to hold them by offering the kind of individualized service not available at large chain stores in modern malls."
When Poughkeepsie was considering reopening its mall, it wanted to find out what other cities with similar malls were doing. It hired Hyett Palmer, a commerical business consulting firm based in Washington, to survey cities across the country. The study, completed in 1989, took in Santa Monica, Calif.; Eugene, Ore.; Oak Park, Ill.; Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; Vicksburg, Miss.; Baltimore; Ithaca, N.Y.; Memphis, Miami Beach and St. Joseph, Mo.
Most of the malls were built in the late 60's and early 70's. The only exception is the one in Miami Beach, which was built in 1959.
In seven of the cities, the malls were successful for a few years after they built. Then business declined, due in large part to the growth of shopping centers outside the city's downtown areas. Of the 10 cities surveyed, five had either totally or partially opened their pedestrian malls to traffic in the last three or four years, and two others were considering doing so.
Only Baltimore and Ithaca believed their downtown malls were fine just the way they were. And instead of opening its mall to traffic, Memphis was considering developing a trolley system to take shoppers around.
Of the cities that reopened their malls, all reported business gains. In Oak Park, three of four blocks of the mall were opened to traffic in November 1988. This resulted in an increase in sales of 6.3 percent from 1988 to 1989. In the same period, retail occupancy went from 75 percent to 80 percent.
"We now have a lease pending that would increase retail occupancy to almost 90 percent," said Christine Burdick, executive director of Downtown Oak Park, a group that manages the mall's retail businesses. "That lease would not even have been a possibility if we hadn't opened up the streets."
IN Santa Monica, opening the mall to traffic attracted many new businesses, including restaurants, movie houses and comedy clubs. So many people now use the mall that the city has temporarily banned cars.
"There are just too many pedestrians," said Tom Carroll, executive director of the Bayside District Corporation, which manages the city's downtown. "It's not practical to have traffic passing through."
Since the road is what first drew the new businesses to the mall, "it's ironic that we're not even using it," Mr. Carroll said. "But we might again if business slows down."
Opening a mall to traffic is a major job, usually involving building a road and new sidewalks and installing new lighting and other amenities. In Poughkeepsie, it took three months to complete and cost almost $1 million. The city financed 60 percent of the project with Federal Community Development funds; the rest came from a bond issue to be repaid by the merchants on the street with tax assessments over 12 years.
A major thrust behind the project was provided by Karl Ehmer, a meat retailer known for his television commercials. In keeping with his high profile, he promised publicly to reopen his meat market, which closed in 1986, if the block was opened to traffic and to donate $250,000 to charity if the city agreed to the project.
"He's not the first merchant to suggest it," Ms. LaVance said. "But he was the first one to bring the issue before the public and that helped move things along."
When Bruce McIlravy, owner of Haber House of Wheels, a bicycle shop, was looking to move his business from another part of the city, the opening of the east block was attractive for several reasons. He wanted to be in the center of the city, but not stuck in the middle of the mall.
"I need to be in a free-standing structure," he said. "People don't want to shlep a broken bike through a mall."
MR. McIlravy's business has been in Poughkeepsie since 1919. "It keeps moving as the city grows and changes," he said, "and I think this location is the city's current hot spot." All his regular customers have managed to find him at his new location, he said, and "I'm also getting people who haven't been downtown in 10 or 15 years."
Mr. McIlravy bought two buildings on the street. He plans to use the ground floors for the bicycle business and renovate the rest for offices or apartments. "That would require a zoning use change," he said. "But I think there's a market for housing in the mall."
In most of the cities surveyed, opening the malls to traffic is only the latest attempt to revitalize their downtown shopping areas. In Poughkeepsie, $30 million has been spent on such things as rehabilitating storefronts and in new construction since 1989. In that period, 45 new businesses started up or moved downtown, and 17 closed or left. "That's a net gain of 28, which in the present economy isn't bad," said Ms. La Vanche of the Poughkeepsie Partnership.
Started four years ago, the partnership comprises an amalgam of public and private interests. On its board of directors are John E. Mack 3d, C.E.O. and chairman of Central Hudson Gas & Electric Company, and Robert A. Bleakley. the mayor of Poughkeepsie. Membership includes representatives of 160 local businesses. All will be watching closely for the success or failure of east block to determine if the process should continue throughout the rest of the mall.
"Some of the other blocks on the mall are doing better than east block did," said Ms. LaVanche. "But if the success is compelling enough, we probably will open up the rest."
The Mayor seems ready and eager for that to happen. "If the merchants on the street want it and they are willing to pay for 40 percent of it," he said, "we'll do it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One block in the three-block mall in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., has reopened to traffic. (Jeff Goulding for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Three of four blocks of the pedestrian mall in Oak Park, Ill., have been reopened to traffic to attract shoppers. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (56%); MARKET STREET WEST (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POUGHKEEPSIE (NY); OAK PARK (ILL); SANTA MONICA (CALIF) UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (79%); CITY LIFE (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



983 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Taking Note of the Year's Events

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHERMAN

 BODY:
EVEN as we make ready to greet the New Year, it might be well to look back at some of the cultural events that brightened (or dampened) the Connecticut music scene in 1991. Among other happenings, for instance, we greeted the arrival of the first ever:
State Troubadour: The poet, composer and balladeer Tom Callinan was appointed to that exalted post in June, after 14 years and 6 solo albums (the most recent, aptly enough called "The Connecticut Troubadour") devoted largely to writing and singing about life in New England. "The state is a vibrant patchwork of people and places," said the 44-year old Clinton resident, who added that he hoped to compile a book of local stories and songs. 
 Chief Performing Executive: "Molto bene," said Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. in March, when he agreed to make his operatic debut as an American Naval officer in the Connecticut Opera production of "Madama Butterfly." His next stage outing came in October, the Governor narrating Aaron Copland's "Lincoln Portrait" at the season opener of the Eastern Connecticut Symphony.
Chamber Music Brunch: The cellist Warren Lash came up with the idea for a series of recitals in the banquet room of Zenny's Restaurant in Storrs. So starting in January, it was Mozart and muffins.
Opera Awareness Month: September was thus designated in Stamford and Bridgeport, both to honor Connecticut Grand Opera, which splits its performing allegiance between the two cities, and to encourage the enjoyment of opera by listeners of all ages. In their respective proclamations, Stamford Mayor Thom Serrani called opera "the grand collective of the performing arts," while Bridgeport Mayor Mary Moran dubbed it "a cultural resource that enhances the quality of life as well as the economic vitality of this community."
Frog Fest: As an adjunct to the summer festival at the Charles Ives Center for the Arts, Western Connecticut State University opened its campus for a series of "Sundays in the Park" with family entertainment like folk singalongs, story-telling sessions and concerts by the Danbury Brass Band. Oh, yes, the Frog Fest -- those were programs held by the pond to introduce children to the instruments of the orchestra, as well as the relationship of music and nature.
Ferry Festival: You had to take a motor launch to reach the inaugural recitals of the First Outer Island Chamber Music Festival last July, so the sponsoring Southern Connecticut State University Foundation made a social event out of it, throwing in a tour through the Thimble Islands and encouraging concertgoers to enjoy a leisurely supper on Outer Island itself.
And now the bad news. The cultural disaster of the year, of course, was the Hartford Symphony strike, forcing the cancellation of the first three sets of subscription concerts, along with events like the pops program with Henry Mancini, the annual "Messiah" performance and many others. The State Labor Board voted last month to call the impasse a lockout, so the musicians are entitled to receive unemployment compensation, but at press time the impasse had not yet been resolved.
A shimmering of light amidst the Hartford Symphony darkness: the orchestra's volunteer association is accepting applications for the 18th annual young artists competition. Open to music students in Connecticut public, private and parochial school in grades 9 through 12, the auditions this year are for piano or any of the orchestral instruments. More than $2,500 in cash prizes will be distributed, with the top winner earning an appearance with the Hartford Symphony at its Discovery Concert in May. The applications deadline is March 25; for more details call 246-8742.
Finally, congratulations to some of the organizations and artists who celebrated anniversaries in 1991. By the round numbers, they are:
10: The Emerson Quartet, celebrating its residence at the Hartt School with a recital series that continues into the spring; Litchfield Performing Arts, rounding off a gala season that featured music notables like Richard Goode, Gary Karr, Ruth Laredo and the Shanghai String Quartet, and the Fairfield Orchestra, giving 22 concerts under its founding music director, Thomas Crawford.
15: The Greater Bridgeport Symphony's William and Francis Carlson and Ruth Carlson Horn Competition for Young Instrumentalists, a blessing through the years for so many emerging performers, and Frank Brieff, who has showcased so many deserving young artists during his 15 years as music director of the Waterbury Symphony.
20: Harry Clark and Sanda Schuldmann, co-founders of Chamber Music Plus, marked two decades of performing and personal togetherness, as did the Chamber Players of the Greenwich Symphony, and Gustav Meier, who last month began his 20th year as music director of the Greater Bridgeport Symphony. The Symphony's Youth Orchestras, by the way, completed their own 30th anniversary season in 1991.
25: The Yale Symphony, which lowered the ticket price of its silver anniversary concert in March concert to 25 cents.
40: The New Haven Chorale, celebrating a proud history of performances from the New Haven Green to Manhattan.
45: Three cheers (and one cheer more) for the Troupers Light Opera Company, whose Gilbert and Sullivan productions through the years have given a high new meaning to the phrase "community theater."
50: Modestly billing its October production as "a breathtaking extravaganza of mammoth proportions," Connecticut Opera began its golden anniversary season in September with 20 horses, 4 camels, 2 elephants, 1 zebra and "Aida."
75: The Connecticut Federation of Music and Dance Clubs, continuing to provide performing opportunities to gifted young artists.
95: "The Bible says Moses lived till the age of 120," said Moshe Paranov, the grand old man of Connecticut music. "Well, I believe in the Bible, so I think I'll try to do just that."
Mr. Paranov continues to travel to schools all around the state, leading children to the promised land of music. And in May he conducted a piece and received a multitude of honors at a birthday concert simultaneously celebrating the 70th anniversary of the institution he co-founded and still serves as president emeritus, the Hartt School of Music.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); WRITERS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

PERSON: SHERMAN, ROBERT AARON COPLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



984 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

Transferring Rent Rights
 
Question: My rent-stabilized studio apartment has seven months left on the lease. There is a vacant one-bedroom apartment in the building with a rent lower than mine. Can my landlord refuse to rent me the larger apartment? . . . Dale La Shomb, Manhattan 

Answer: Yes. Joseph D'Agosta, an assistant commissioner with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said no rent regulations oblige a landlord to transfer leasing rights for existing tenants when apartment vacancies come up.
 
Tenant Rights
 
Question: I live in a three-unit building (one commercial and two residential). My landlord did not give me a new lease until a week before the previous lease expired. Was this legal? . . . Thomas F. Roche, Brooklyn
 
Answer: Probably, but it would depend on the terms of your lease. Since your apartment is not covered by the laws that govern rent-regulated housing, there are no statutory requirement that your landlord offer you a new lease within a certain time. Bruce Friedberg, an attorney specializing in real estate matters, said most standard leases are silent on lease renewal notice. But that does not mean your landlord would have been able to put you out at the end of the lease. "Even if the lease has expired," he said, "a landlord cannot evict a tenant without an order from housing court."
Moreover, Section 232 c. of the state's Real Property law says that when a tenant remains beyond the lease term and the landlord accepts rent after that, the tenant is governed by the rules that pertain to month-to-month tenancies. Among them is the requirement that landlords provide a tenant with 30 days' notice to vacate. In New York City, all tenants must be given 30 days' notice, in writing, before eviction proceedings.
 
Change of Use
 
Question: I own a four-family brownstone in a residential zone where a doctor's office is a permitted use for one of the units. Can this space be rented to another commercial use, such as for an accountant, or be used by the professional as a residence as well as an office? . . . Elliot Schuman, Brooklyn
 
Answer: No. Vahe Tiryakian, a spokesman for the Department of Buildings, said the doctor's office cannot be rented to a commercial tenant.
"The zoning resolution permits certain non-residential uses in residential areas," said Mr. Tiryakian, "In general they are for recreational, religious, educational or medical facilities. The law does allow doctor's offices but commercial uses like accounting businesses."
Mr. Tiryakian said it would be possible to convert the space designated for community use into a residence where certain "home occupations" would be permitted and accounting is not a business that is banned as a home occupation. One requirement of the home occupation law is that the business take up no more than 500 square feet or 25 percent of the total floor area.
If you convert the doctor's office to a residence, you would need permits from the Buildings Department for any alterations and you probably would have to meet the requirements of Local Laws 58 and 87, which pertain to space modifications for use by the handicapped.
For more information contact the Buildings Department's Brooklyn borough office at 718-802-3681.
 
SCRIE Income Limits
 
Question: Under the Senior Citizens Rent Increase Exemption program (SCRIE), is money withdrawn from an IRA or any other tax-deferred income annuity included in the $15,000 limit on disposable income? . . . A.M. Goldschmidt, Manhattan
 
Answer: Yes. According to Roz Post, a spokesman for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which administers the SCRIE program, such income is used in calculating the income eligibility for those who apply for the program.
For more information call the SCRIE office at 240-7000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RENT CONTROL (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); EVICTION (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (85%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PROPERTY LAW (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RELIGION (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); HEALTH CARE (61%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



985 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Making a Differnce;
Pennzoil's Siberian Gambit

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
CAN Russian oil help rescue the Pennzoil Company?
The Houston-based company, disparaged by Wall Street and weakened by falling oil and gas profits, said last week that it had struck a deal to develop and produce oil and gas in a western Siberian field within the vast Russian Federated Republic. 
 The oil output, estimated by industry analysts at 25,000 barrels a day, could come as early as next year from the West Mogotlorsk field, which Pennzoil said might contain 45 million barrels of recoverable reserves. The gas reserves, thought to be about 35 billion cubic feet, are to be developed later.
These amounts pale beside the larger production deals envisioned in various parts of the former Soviet Union. Still, Pennzoil's rights to 25 percent of the oil output of the joint venture could increase its overall oil production by 21 percent. The Russian partner is the Agansk Geological Enterprise of Novoagansk.
Some analysts say that James L. Pate, president and chief executive, has to bolster Pennzoil's prospects soon. He and other directors maintained earlier this month that the yearly dividend of $3 a share was safe, but Bernard J. Picchi, senior oil analyst at Salomon Brothers, sees it differently. "They'll be paying out their seed corn" if the dividend stays at that level for long, he said.
Weak natural gas prices, a drop in the value of Pennzoil's 9.4 percent stake in the shares of the Chevron Corporation and a poor record of finding new reserves have damaged the company's assets and earning power, Mr. Picchi said.
And the sale by J. Hugh Liedtke, chairman, of one-fifth of his Pennzoil shares this year raised some investor concerns. Mr. Liedtke sold at an average price of $73 a share. The stock closed Friday at $53.625.
The top economist at the Commerce Department during the Ford Administration, Mr. Pate, 56, climbed the financial executive ladder after joining Pennzoil in 1976 and has been chief executive since March 1990. The third heir-apparent named by Mr. Liedtke in four years, Mr. Pate early this month hired four outside oilmen to lead a new campaign, bankrolled by $100 million in each of the next three years, to find foreign reserves.
A much-discussed restructuring that many analysts had encouraged, including sales of some large business units, apparently is on hold.
Mr. Pate, who declined a request for an interview, said earlier this month that the opening of vast oil regions in many parts of the world to exploration by American oil companies is "a major business opportunity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PENNZOIL CO PENNZOIL CO (91%); CHEVRON CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNZOIL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR); SIBERIA (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL) INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (65%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (55%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C JAMES L PATE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



986 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Clouded Vision and Purple Hearts

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
IT is a Wall Street tradition for outstanding analysts to be honored each year by inclusion in the "All-American" team named each year by Institutional Investor magazine. But prestigious as they are, those awards do not seem to do justice to the marvelous three-ring circus that is the world of Wall Street research.
There is no category, for example, for "the best solo performance by a battered bear in a bull market" -- a prize that should go, hands down, to Michael Murphy, editor of the Overpriced Stock Service newsletter in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Mr. Murphy was wrong about the market's overall direction -- in August, his newsletter advised: "Short Everything!" He was dead right, though, about Cascade International, the little Florida-based retailing chain whose chief, Victor Incendy, vanished before a public meeting on Nov. 20 at which he was to answer Mr. Murphy's complaints that the company's financial reports were inaccurate. (Cascade filed for bankruptcy court protection on Dec. 16, still unable to determine its assets and liabilities, and still unable to locate Mr. Incendy.) 
 Nor do Institutional Investor's awards recognize the delicate hair-splitting, the double-jointed contortions of logic and language, and the blindfolded leaps of faith that added spice to the year's reports. And where are the Purple Hearts for those fearless analysts who stated their views without hedging or equivocation -- and turned out to be wrong? Herewith, then, are the awards the magazine missed, honoring some of the great moments in Wall Street research in 1991.
The Blindfolded Bear-Baiting Trophy goes this year to Keith Mullins, an analyst at Smith, Barney Harris Upham & Company, and Ray Dirks, the irrepressible research chief at Baird, Patrick & Company. Both did yeoman work defending Healthcare Services Group, which provides cleaning and laundry services to nursing homes, against a series of skeptical attacks by Charles Biderman, the editor of Market Trim Tabs, a newsletter in Santa Rosa, Calif.
Beginning last June, with the company's split-adjusted stock price in the high teens, Mr. Biderman began to question the company's accounting and sales practices and argued that its pricing structure inflated nursing home expenses and could be open to challenge by Medicaid auditors.
Mr. Mullins countered with a strong defense of the company's revenue and profit growth and predicted its stock could double by next spring. And Mr. Dirks added the company to his "Shortbuster Club," companies he believes have been unfairly portrayed by bearish investors.
What neither analyst apparently detected -- but what was disclosed by Healthcare two weeks ago -- is that the Securities and Exchange Commission has been investigating the company's "business, financial statements, client relations and accounting" since the fall of 1990 -- and the company has "cooperated voluntarily" with all the commission's requests "since that time." Its stock closed at $13.75 a share on Friday.
The Fine Distinctions Award goes to Nomi Ghez, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, for her reports on Hershey Foods. In an Oct. 23 report, with Hershey trading at $43 a share, she examined its vital signs, including its slight market slippage and its stable but lackluster profit growth, and recommended its shares for conservative long-term investors. After the market closed on Nov. 19, she sent out a new report in which she again cited Hershey's slippage in market share and lackluster profit growth -- this time as reasons for removing it from Goldman's recommended list. It is too soon to say if the glass was indeed half-empty, but Hershey's shares tumbled to $36.50 on Goldman's action, and have crept back to just $42.88 since then.
As the year opened, Michael Rosen at Smith, Barney was a strong contender for the Courageous Contrarian Award, having upgraded McDonnell Douglas to a "buy" on Jan. 4, in part because of its role in the Stealth bomber program. On Jan. 7, when the stock opened at $39.25 a share, the Stealth was scrapped by the Defense Department, and McDonnell's stock dove, closing at $28 a share on Jan. 9. Forbes magazine pilloried Mr. Rosen for failing to foresee the cancellation -- a lapse committed by millions -- and the analyst made a simple but classy admission of error. Then, sacrificing the contrarian's crown, he downgraded McDonnell's battered stock to a "hold" and did not restore it to "buy" status until Nov. 12 -- by which point the shares were priced at $77 apiece. Was Mr. Rosen's buy-signal timing any better this time around? Well, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 5.3 percent since its Nov. 15 tumble, McDonnell Douglas closed on Friday at $70.25 a share.
If miscalling the direction of the nation's economy were all it took to win the Fearless Forecasting Award for 1991, there would be enough winners to fill the soon-to-be-empty parking lot at your neighborhood General Motors plant. But among the honorable mentions in this crowded category were the forecasters at the Standard & Poor's Corporation, who greeted 1991 with the prediction that "consumer spending should come alive again in the second half of 1991 as economic expansion resumes," a development that would push up profits for retailers.
But that performance cannot hold a candle to the courage shown by the authors of the Purvin & Gertz monthly oil market research report. The date was Jan. 14, 1991. The topic was the tension in the Persian Gulf, where the United Nations had given Iraq until Jan. 15 to pull out of Kuwait. Purvin & Gertz was utterly fearless: "Despite the recent negative indicators," the authors said, "we continue to stand by our original base case, which calls for a resolution to the crisis without military engagement, though it is difficult to anticipate how this will occur in the time remaining." The 100-day war broke out on Jan. 16, making Purvin & Gertz the slam-dunk winner of this year's Thomas E. Dewey Headliners Award.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Up, Down and Sideways" shows stock prices during 1991 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCSG (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS812332 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (53%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR (MAGAZINE) BAIRD PATRICK & CO INC (65%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (65%); HEALTHCARE SERVICES GROUP INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (85%); ACCOUNTING (84%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); STOCK SPLITS (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); MEDICAID (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); NURSING HOMES (67%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



987 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Managing;
Stempel Walks the Tightrope

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

 BODY:
IN Robert C. Stempel, the General Motors Corporation has a chief executive with more respect among factory workers than any other commander of the auto giant in modern times.
"He's a people person, not one of those financial guys," said Annette Morrow, a 15-year veteran at G.M.'s Arlington, Tex., plant. 
 That signals a trust that Mr. Stempel and other G.M. executives only belatedly built, compared with other American and Japanese automakers. The basis for it is a bigger worker voice at the factory since the mid-1980's. But the trust is in danger of shredding.
The problem is not that G.M., as Mr. Stempel announced on Dec. 18, will close 21 plants and shed 74,000 workers by the end of 1995. Most agree that should have been done years ago. The problem is that Mr. Stempel did not say which plants would close, leaving most of G.M.'s work force of 400,000 to worry about where the ax will fall -- and when.
"Rather than lift the uncertainty for many, they've increased it and made it more immediate for hundreds of thousands of workers," said Harley Shaiken, a visiting scholar in industrial relations at the University of California at Berkeley. "This will leave broader scars than the specific plants closed."
The situation also highlighted the dangers management faces in "whipsawing." Mr. Stempel had said G.M. was not pitting one plant against another to drive down costs -- but then announced that work at two plants, in Arlington, Tex., and at Willow Run in Ypsilanti, Mich., would be "consolidated" into one sometime next year.
Which one is the question and it has set off an emotional, 11th-hour scramble -- plus boxing Mr. Stempel into a corner with the unions. Local politicians and plant and union officials in Arlington are huddling to plead their cause before Mr. Stempel at G.M. headquarters in early January. An Ypsilanti contingent is expected in Detroit a week later.
This Darwinian competition is the essence of a market economy and, indeed, probably will produce lower costs and higher productivity at the surviving plant, said Peter Cappelli, a management professor at the Wharton School in Philadelphia.
But by hauling the contest into public view, Mr. Stempel put a spotlight on his own role. If he rejects the concessions expected from Arlington and Ypsilanti, G.M. could miss an opportunity to cut costs. Yet worker morale will plunge throughout G.M. if the decision is perceived as being tipped by last-minute bargaining, said William N. Cooke, an auto-industry consultant on factory work teams.
"If they jeopardize the joint decision-making and the close involvement of the employees by whipsawing, they will never recover in the long run," said Mr. Cooke, a professor at Wayne State University. He added that Mr. Stempel's clearest way out of the jam now is to restate his opposition to whipsawing and spell out the criteria G.M. will use to make the decision -- which should include rejecting any new concessions from either plant.
THE G.M. leader appeared to choose his words carefully on the whipsawing issue: "We have to first of all consider the work force, the community and the state where we operate, what the balance of employment will be in the state afterwards, what the impact is on the local community and so forth."
Doug Fraser, president of the U.A.W. between 1977 and 1983, agreed that Mr. Stempel is obliged by his Dec. 18 remarks not to consider any new offers from Arlington or Ypsilanti in deciding which will remain open and retain nearly 4,000 jobs.
"The C.E.O. of General Motors has to be a man of his word and that there won't be any whipsawing," said Mr. Fraser, also a professor at Wayne State. G.M. should have named all 21 plants to be closed, he added. "Not only does that eliminate whipsawing, but it's the right thing to do."
Ultimately, Mr. Stempel's success in restructuring may be measured not by plants closed or workers furloughed, but by shrinkage in G.M.'s bloated management ranks.
"If there are people making $300,000 or $400,000 a year who are blocking or resisting change, then he has to send them home quickly," said Noel M. Tichy, a professor of business at the University of Michigan. "The only thing Stempel can do now is make the fastest possible decision and reduce the uncertainty. Clearly , the clock is ticking."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Willow Run, in Ypsilanti, Mich., has been thrown into a battle for survival with the Arlington, Tex., plant. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS EXECUTIVES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: STEMPEL, ROBERT C; HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



988 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: All About: Silicone Products;
A War Baby, Versatile Silicone Now Shows Up Everywhere

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH they only occasionally grab headlines, and then only when used in their most exotic applications, such as breast implants or the O-rings of the space shuttle, silicone compounds have become blue-collar mainstays of the chemical world. Silicone compounds are so widely used in construction, industrial applications, textile production and service sector support businesses like printing and labeling that the earnings growth of the Dow Corning Corporation (negative in 1982, slipping since 1987), the largest silicone producer, can be used as an indicator for the health of the economy.
Few worldwide markets the size of silicone's -- some estimates run as high as $6 billion -- are made up of so many niches. Dow Corning estimates that it sells more than 5,000 silicone products to 105 different segments of industry, none accounting for more than 3 percent of the company's total sales of silicone products. The General Electric Company, the No. 2 producer, figures it has more than 4,000 silicone products. 
 Silicones are polymers, or chains of repeating molecules, with spines made up of oxygen alternating with silicon, an element best known today as the most common building block for semiconductors. A variety of resins, gels, foams, liquids, pastes and rubber-like materials are made by attaching other chemicals to the polymer backbone or forming crosslinks between polymers.
Silicon is the main constituent of sand and quartz rock and one of the most common elements on earth. It has been used for thousands of years in ceramics and has long been known for the easy and stable bonds it forms with oxygen. But silicone chemistry did not develop until researchers began to systematically explore the effects of binding silicon to organic compounds early in this century. Although the basic components are inexpensive, the series of chemical reactions needed to synthesize useful quantities of silicones is anything but.
"There's still a lot of art and a lot of unexplored chemistry," said Donald Perkins, general manager of General Electric's silicone business.
 
The Players
 Dow Corning Leads And G.E. Is No. 2
 Dow Corning was created in 1943 and quickly introduced the first important silicone product, a superior insulating grease for electrical machinery used to help Allied aircraft fly at high altitudes and in low temperatures during World War II. The company was set up by the Corning Glass Works, which in 1938 developed the first silicone product, for insulating fiber glass, and the Dow Chemical Company.
Dow Corning, based in Midland, Mich., last year netted $171 million on sales of $1.72 billion. More than half of its sales of silicone products come from overseas operations. The company spends about 8 percent of revenues on research, an unusually high figure in the chemical business.
General Electric, which bases its silicone operations in Waterford, N.Y., entered the business shortly after Dow Corning with a more efficient manufacturing process that is still used today for many silicone products. The company is currently attempting to focus its product line more narrowly, Mr. Perkins said. G.E., like the other major companies other than Dow Corning, does not report any figures detailing the extent or profitability of its silicone business.
A third major American player is the Union Carbide Company. After plans to sell its silicone business to G.E. in 1988 were opposed by the Federal Trade Commission, Carbide moved further into the field by purchasing British Petroleum's silicone operations in Europe.
The United States is the leading market for the newest applications of silicones, but industry executives here say that Europe is catching up fast. Although no one collects or reports industry-wide figures, sales revenues in Europe and the Far East are thought to be similar to those in the United States. Major foreign producers include Huls, Wakker and Bayer of Germany; Rhone Poulenc in France, and Shenetsu in Japan.
 
Medical Uses
 From Implants To Burn Therapy

Silicone has long been recognized as a useful material for medical equipment, medicines and consumer products like deoderants, shampoos and cosmetics because it can be made in forms that are unusually chemically compatible with the human body.
In each application, other silicone characteristics also come into play. Silicones that act as a foam-control agent are an active ingredient in many antiacids. Others are used to lubricate needles. A rubbery silicone is used in balloons injected under the skin to stretch it, thus creating more skin for plastic surgeons to work with in reconstructive surgery for burn victims. Another has supplanted natural rubber in baby bottle nipples. One new use of silicones is to chemically encapsulate other compounds in drugs and cosmetics to regulate the release of active ingredients.
The highest-profile medical silicones recently have been those used in breast implants. More than 2 million American women have had silicone implants over the past 30 years, either to enlarge small breasts or restore breasts lost to cancer. The implants consist of a hard silicone around a silicone gel. In recent years, critics have said that there is evidence linking the operations to a number of diseases.
Last month, a Food and Drug Administration panel said more data was needed to support the manufacturers' claims that implants are safe but recommended they be left on the market pending completion of the research. The agency must act on that qualified vote of confidence by Jan. 6.
 
More Niches
 Beating Oil-Based Competition
 Silicones tend to be more expensive than organic polymers, such as all those derived from oil. As a result, silicones often come into their own in high-performance situations where there are no oil-based substitutes and price is not the first concern. Silicones replace organic lubricants where parts are exposed to extremely high or low temperatures or pressures.
A particularly prized trait is the ability of many silicones to be applied in a liquid or paste form and then cure into a solid at low heat or even through simple exposure to air.
One of silicone's broadest applications is to simultaneously attach and seal glass windows to buildings. Silicones are typically extremely water repellant, resistant to rust and slow to degrade when exposed to sunlight. These characteristics, along with flexibility and simple curing, account for their use in highway expansion joints and home caulking compounds.
Occasionally a new market is almost thrust on silicone manufacturers. That happened when concerns about the toxicity of PCB's forced utilities to search for another substance that had similar heat tolerance and electrical characteristics. More often, though, manufacturers find themselves tinkering with silicone chemistry to create a collection of characteristics fitting a customer's needs so well that it will pay a premium for silicone over a cheaper plastic or metal.
"We do a lot of molecular modeling on computers today before trying to synthesize new compounds," said Leon Crossman, director of science and technology at Dow Corning. "That lets us try a lot of weird combinations."
 
Silly Putty, Now a Classic
 PERHAPS the most famous silicone compound is a methyl borosiloxane with unusual cross-linking that was discovered by accident in a General Electric laboratory in 1943. The engineers were looking for a very hard silicone rubber. But the stockroom sent the wrong chemicals and what the engineers got was a putty-like material that flattened into a pancake when left alone, could be stretched like taffy, and bounced like crazy when rolled into a ball and tossed on the floor.
The substance was dismissed as a simple mistake with an unusually goofy result until 1949 when Peter C. Hodgson, an advertising copywriter, heard about it from a friend. He borrowed some money, named the stuff Silly Putty, packaged it in plastic eggs, and began marketing it as a novelty through Neiman-Marcus and Doubleday bookstores.
Some 3,000 tons later, Silly Putty no longer enjoys the fad status it had in the 1950's, but it's selling. It is made in Easton, Pa., by Binney & Smith Inc., better known for its Crayola crayons. Last year, it introduced a number of colored versions to go along with the classic pinkish-beige original and this year, added a glow-in-the-dark version.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the home, silicone sealants are common; Semiconducters depend on hard polycrystaline silicone, which does not conduct electricity.; When baby gets a bottle these days, the nipple is a rubbery version of silicone.
 
Graph: "It's Used for Just About Everything" shows new patents covering development or use of silicons from '50 to '91 (Source: Dow Corning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (84%); DOW (NYSE) (84%); DOW (LSE) (84%); 4850 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); GLW (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DOW CORNING; UNION CARBIDE CORP; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO DOW CHEMICAL CO (84%); DOW CORNING CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); CORNING INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW CORNING; UNION CARBIDE CORP; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: SILICONE RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (91%); RUBBER & SILICONE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); GLASS MFG (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); FIBERGLASS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J CHRISTIAN PIERRET (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



989 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Beware the Fickle Prediction

DATELINE: Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
THE news from many stock markets has been bad lately. So predictions of rising earnings for companies around the world in 1992 may sound encouraging for investors eager to buy stocks.
But recent history shows that there is good reason to beware of these earnings estimates. Predictions have a distinct tendency to change, and if they drop, stocks become much less attractive because anticipated price-to-earnings ratios rise as earnings fall. 
 According to data compiled by the New York-based Institutional Brokers Estimate System, analysts predicted last May that the earnings per share for companies in the CAC index of 40 leading blue chip stocks in France would rise 4.6 percent in 1991. By the end of November, the latest data compiled, that prediction had turned to a 3 percent drop.
The same pattern is true for the other six countries in the Group of Seven, which consists of the United States and its main economic allies, homes of the major stock markets in the world.
For example, the forecast for the earnings of companies in the Standard & Poor's index of 500 American shares went from a 3.1 percent increase predicted last May to a 9.7 percent decline predicted at the end of last month. In Japan, forecasts for companies in the Nikkei 225-share index moved from an increase of 2 percent to 3.9 percent decline. In Britain, the change was more dramatic, with a swing from a 5.2 percent rise to a 7.1 percent drop.
Canada, which traditionally has had very volatile earnings, had an even wider swing, with earnings estimates moving from up 5.2 percent to down 17 percent. In Italy, the change was all negative, from down 1.8 percent to down 12.5 percent. Only in Germany, where the global slowdown has had the least impact this year, was there an upward revision, although a minor one, from down 1.1 percent to down just half a percentage point.
Clearly, 1991 has been a year for downward revisions. In the United States, the hoped-for recovery has disappeared, and in England, it has not begun. In Continental Europe, the slowdown came much faster than expected, and Germany's aggressive increase in interest rates a week ago could make it worse. In Japan, the economy has slowed and the financial atmosphere has been seared by scandal and a significant slump in the stock market.
But according to Rick Pucci, vice president of the Institutional Brokers Estimate System, downward revisions have been the rule, not the exception. In all but two of the last 12 years in which the firm has collected the data, the revisions in the United States have lowered the earnings estimates by the end of the year. The exceptions were in 1979, when Mr. Pucci said estimates were driven up by double-digit inflation, and 1988, when a recession that was predicted to have followed the 1987 stock market crash never materialized.
For foreign stock market earnings, for which the system began collecting complete data in 1988, the pattern of downward revision was true in 1990 and 1991.
"Analysts tend to be optimistic," Mr. Pucci said. Even if their estimates appear to be off early in the year, they tend to think the difference can be made up by year end, he said. As the end of the year approaches, they have no choice but to cut their estimates sharply. "Every analyst in the industrial world has been cutting estimates drastically over the last couple of months," he said.
Because of this evidence of persistent overoptimism among earnings analysts, Mr. Pucci is already predicting that the earnings estimates for 1992 will be coming down, too. In the United States, the current forecast for next year is a 31 percent jump in earnings per share. On average, analysts cut their earnings estimates by 1 percent a month. This would bring the United States forecast down to 18 percent by the beginning of 1993. But Mr. Pucci said the forecast could fall to around 15 percent because the recovery is being put off further into the future.
The revisions should knock down the other current 1992 estimates as well. They are: Canada, 51.3 percent; France, 16.5 percent; Germany, 7.9 percent; Italy 16.5 percent; Japan, 4.7 percent, and Britain, 26.1 percent.
The broad country stock market estimates do not mean, of course, that all companies' estimates are lowered. So far this year, of the 9,958 companies followed by analysts, 73.5 percent have been lowered since January and 26.5 percent have been raised.
Most of the companies whose earnings estimates were revised downward for 1991 also had their forecasts for 1992 cut. The same pattern, in reverse, was true for companies with profit increases forecast.
Among the companies with the largest downward revisions in 1991 are: Volkswagen in Germany, Peugeot in France, British Aerospace, Bridgestone of Japan, Fiat of Italy and Imperial Oil in Canada.
The pattern of revisions is clear enough that investors should take forecasts with a grain of salt. Some firms acknowledge this. In its new outlook for the beginning of 1992, the UBS Phillips & Drew global research group in London notes that there have been downward revisions in their initial earnings forecasts in the past two years and adds: "Our forecasts for 1992 could justifiably be treated with some skepticism."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); FRANCE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); FRANCE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



990 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Hurtling Off the Precipice?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Will the Aura of Recession Always Be With Us?" (Nov. 24) presents two schools of opinion regarding the engineered "soft landing" of 1991. One contends that it is a deep, lingering recession; the other, that it is a shallow, short recession in the recovery mode. 
 Let me suggest a third: None of the above.
Ever since Adam Smith wrote the book on the dismal science of economics, depressions have afflicted capitalist economies. Yes, I know most respectable economists pooh-pooh any mention of the big "D," and the President says, "our economy is fundamentally sound," at every photo opportunity. But I'm certain he would change his tune if he realized that Herbert Hoover also sang that song -- in 1929.
Every panic, bust, slump and economic upheaval since Adam Smith's day was unbelievable -- before the fact. Witness the last depression. Experts kept on parroting "our economy is fundamentally sound" even while it hurtled headlong into the abyss of the 30's.
 
HENRY FOGEL
Lexington, Mass., Nov. 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); 

PERSON: FOGEL, HENRY ADAM SMITH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



991 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
On Whom Will the Spotlight -- and the Ax -- Fall in 1992?

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
THE past year has been a tumultuous one for the computer industry, and there is no reason to suspect the new year will be any more tranquil. The most optimistic executives say the market may grow a little; others suggest that a shakeout will winnow many second- and third-tier companies and shake the foundations of the top tier.
John McCarthy, an analyst with Forrester Research Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., a market research firm, predicted "continued bloodletting as business and the economy go bad." 
 "There's going to be real pricing competition on the operating system side," Mr. McCarthy said, looking ahead to upgraded versions that are scheduled to be released. "I.B.M. is going to spark a pricing war with Windows in March as they attempt to resuscitate OS/2."
He continued: "The question is, can I.B.M. really lock marketing horns with Microsoft? Because that's what it is, a marketing battle, not a technology battle. I.B.M. has been great at freezing the market in the past with FUD -- fear, uncertainty and doubt. The question is whether they can use marketing to activate a market."
In networking, he predicted, "we'll see the advent of combination Token Ring and Ethernet chips built right into the motherboard of high-end business-class PC's." That, he said, would be "the beginning of the end for the network interface card business," predicting problems ahead for the 3COM Corporation, of Santa Clara, Calif., a leading manufacturer of those cards.
Tim Bajarin, vice president of Creative Strategies International Inc., a market research and consulting firm based in San Jose, Calif., predicted that the most significant event of 1992 would be the court ruling on Apple Computer Inc.'s suit against Microsoft, which it accuses of illegally copying aspects of the Macintosh operating system in its Windows operating system. The trial is scheduled for the summer. If Apple wins, "I am convinced that Apple will not license its Macintosh interface to Microsoft," Mr. Bajarin said. "I believe Apple will force Microsoft back to the drawing board."
Jim Seymour of Seymour & Associates, an Austin, Tex., firm that advises large companies on information technology, predicted that Borland International Inc. would be "the most noticed and most admired software company in 1992." He added: "There will be blood in the streets as it battles Microsoft with its new products, Paradox for Windows and Quattro Pro for Windows. Those products are so, so good."
Mr. Seymour also foresees a renewed interest in monitors, because of Windows, which works best on bigger, higher-quality displays. "People are catching on that the 13- and 14-inch monitors of yesterday are not enough," Mr. Seymour said. "Yet the 19-inch models are too big and too expensive."
He said he was impressed with a new crop of 16-inch monitors -- a "compromise between the big ones you can't afford and the little ones you can't stand" -- that will be brought to market by the NEC Corporation of Japan and Radius Inc., of San Jose, Calif.
Elsewhere, he predicted a shakeout among clone companies "in that layer just below Dell and AST Research," where he predicted a third of the competitors would be "gone in the next 12 to 18 months." He declined to speculate on which ones. He also predicted, "It will be a difficult year for Compaq, which is going to find its first year or 18 months of selling low-cost PC's to be profitless."
Cheryl Currid, the president of Currid & Company, a Houston-based consulting company, said she would be paying special attention to Compaq, which is also based in Houston. "Their challenge is to push in two directions, to the low end, to get back on the desktop, without forgetting the high end, where they stand to be one of the chosen few to benefit from downsizing," she said.
Downsizing, in this case, is the replacement of large mainframe systems with smaller computers linked on a network. "Anywhere from 1 to 4 percent of corporate revenues are spent on computing, and there is no rhyme or reason on why it's higher one place than another," she said, before backtracking: "Actually, there is a reason. It's a lot of little old men sitting in glass houses" -- mainframe centers -- "waiting to change. Outside the glass houses are lots of computing options that rationalize the cost of computers and increase flexibility."
While many companies took a beating in 1991, corporate and other buyers enjoyed round after round of price cuts, as well as steady increases in computer performance. "Consumers made out like bandits between price drops, changes in distribution and the fact that companies are paying more attention to service and support," said Peter Zandan, president of Intelliquest, a technology market research company in Austin, Tex.
That phrase -- service and support -- which is no more than working hard to keep customers happy, is now in vogue. "Service is easy to say and very, very hard to deliver," Mr. Zandan observed. "It requires an experience base. If you promise 24-hour turnaround, the customer will know right away if it gets repaired in 24 hours."
Companies to watch, Mr. Zandan said, start with Apple. "They've really positioned themselves well this year, in pricing, distribution, products, and their relationships with I.B.M., Motorola and Sony." On the software side, he said he liked "Borland, if they are able to keep on their path," adding, "They've been very aggressive with their applications and seem to have put together a good formula for success."
Nancy E. McSharry, a software analyst with the International Data Corporation in San Jose, Calif., is another Borland fan. "In five years they have come from the back of the pack in the software race to become the leader in terms of product quality, market growth and perception in marketplace," she said, adding this caution: "The dark side is that Borland's merger with Ashton-Tate has sapped a lot of resources."
She said she also expected strong products from the Symantex Corporation, Central Point Software Inc. "and maybe some companies we haven't heard about yet."
For all the popularity of Microsoft Windows, William F. Zachmann, the president of Canopus Research in Duxbury, Mass., struck a cautionary note: "Microsoft has a lot of underlying problems. There are a variety of wildcards, like the Federal Trace Commission investigation and the Apple lawsuit. But more important, the success of Windows is not nearly as sweeping as is commonly believed." Microsoft says it has sold seven million copies of Windows, but software companies are selling relatively few Windows applications, he said.
"Windows, if OS/2 2.0 does what it is supposed to do, might look a lot less invincible," he said. "Windows 3.1, or at least the final beta version I've seen, looks like nothing dramatic. It evokes more promises than it can deliver."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%); FORR (NASDAQ) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BORLAND INTERNATIONAL INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); APPLE INC (86%); BORLAND SOFTWARE CORP (81%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (72%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORLAND INTERNATIONAL INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); FORECASTS MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); LITIGATION (85%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NETWORK INTERFACE CARDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



992 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2716 words

HEADLINE: Human Tides: The Influx in Europe - A special report.;
Europeans Look for Ways To Bar Door to Immigrants

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
The "fortress Europe" that Americans, Japanese and other outsiders fear when the European Community finally becomes a tariff-free, continent-wide market at the end of next year is already being built. But its walls are intended to keep out people, not commodities.
A flood of people fleeing poverty and political unrest in parts of Eastern Europe, in Africa and in South Asia has combined with years of high unemployment in Europe to inflame social and political tensions not only in European Community countries but in Austria and Switzerland as well. 
 A total of 500,000 people applied for asylum in Western Europe as a whole last year, according to the British Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker. And as unemployment levels have risen in every major European economy this year, popular resentment at the influx has nurtured right-wing political movements in Belgium, Switzerland, France and Germany, among others.
 
Heaviest Influx in Germany
 Time-consuming asylum procedures, including an obligation to house and feed applicants while their cases are being decided, are also imposing a drain on governments already hard pressed to meet welfare demands, and raising questions about how European countries that have never thought of themselves as ethnic melting pots can preserve their national identities.
The influx has been heaviest in Germany, which because of its past is the European country most inhibited from just sending the refugees packing. As the richest European nation and with a population just over 79 million, it already has its hands full coping with the estimated 2.5 million ethnic Germans from Eastern Europe who have taken up citizenship over the last three years, a right the 1949 Constitution automatically guaranteed to Germans everywhere.
While 500,000 applications for asylum does not seem a lot in a continent of more than 300 million people, there are hundreds of thousands more illegal immigrants in most of the principal countries. Until 1985, the number of applications for asylum in Europe and North America combined had never exceeded 250,000.
Not since the collapse of colonialism after World War II have the countries of Europe faced influxes of people on such a scale. Then, the immigration of hundreds of thousands of Indians and Pakistanis helped change the face of Britain, as the flow of North and Central Africans changed the faces of France and Belgium.
Now the process is repeating itself in countries that had no overseas empires, challenging Germans, for instance, to re-examine their long-held aversion to immigration by other ethnic groups. While the Europeans are only groping for answers, they seem more intent this time on keeping as many of these people out as they can, if only they can find a way.
Last summer, Italy sent entire boatloads of would-be asylum-seekers from Albania back across the Adriatic Sea, much as the United States has been barring Haitians from coming across the Caribbean.
 
Spian
 Public Attitudes Largely Tolerant
 European approaches to the problem vary greatly from country to country. In Spain, which has tolerated large-scale illegal immigration from Morocco for years, public attitudes so far are relatively tolerant.
Abdalia Aziz Dukuly, a 27-year-old refugee from the civil war in Liberia, discovered that life in Spain would not be easy after he arrived in the Canary Islands on a freighter from Mauretania on Oct. 29. "I lost my family, so I had nothing to lose," he said one recent morning at the Spanish Red Cross headquarters in Madrid, waiting in a corridor with a score of other refugees, most of them new arrivals from Africa.
"My mother was killed in the fighting," he said, "and I made up my mind to come and hide in Europe. They told me in Las Palmas that Spain couldn't accept me unless I went to the capital, so here I am."
It is not easy to establish grounds to stay in any European country as a refugee. Under the terms of the 1951 United Nations Convention that all European Community countries, as well as the United States, are pledged to observe, asylum can be granted only to someone who can prove a "well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion."
Only seven percent of applications for refugee or asylum status in Spain are approved, a figure roughly typical for the whole of the European Community, and for a basic reason: Most "refugees" coming to Europe actually want to build a better life for themselves, either here or, eventually, back home, and perhaps therefore are better described as immigrants.
Since few European countries permit much immigration at all, the only way to get a foot in the door is to sneak into countries like Spain, which until recently did not even require visas of people coming over from Morocco, or to fly into an airport and ask for asylum, then taking advantage of the time it takes to determine qualification to settle down and take root anyway.
But gradually, the new arrivals are beginning to change the face of the country in unexpected ways, even in Spain, where the numbers -- about 5,000 a year -- are relatively small in a total population of more than 39 million. A surprising number of Spaniards had never laid eyes on a black person before Africans began arriving, for instance.
"King Balthazar was the only black most people here had ever been familiar with," said Felix Barrena, director of the Spanish Red Cross Center for Assistance to Foreigners, referring to one of the Three Magi.
Referring to the difficulties asylum-seekers have in being integrated in Spanish society, he said: "It's a social problem, not a racial problem, in my experience. People see refugees sleeping in the parks, and last summer some of them were caught selling drugs on the Plaza de Espana, and they make stereotypical judgments."
So far Spain has been spared the kind of organized campaigns against foreigners that have seen gangs of skinheads demonstrate against and attack Vietnamese and other refugees in some of the hardest-hit industrial towns in eastern Germany, where unemployment after the collapse of the Communist economy has soared to around 50 percent of the work force.
 
Germany
 Both Acceptance And Resistance
 The integration of foreigners, whether they are immigrants or refugees, has come a long way in Germany, which has had substantial populations of Yugoslavs, Turks and Italians since the 1960's, when they were invited in as "guest workers."
In Berlin, for example, 312,374 foreigners now make up 11 percent of the population, and 136,302 of them are Turks. In 1960, there were only 22,065 non-German people in the city.
The civil war in Yugoslavia has sent more Yugoslavs fleeing into Germany in recent months, and they have displaced Romanians as the largest single group seeking asylum there.
Many Germans have been as shocked as the rest of the world by the beatings and firebomb attacks on refugee centers. As Barbara John, the Berlin city official in charge of helping foreigners, sees it, the public image of Germany as a country where neo-Nazi thugs terrorize anybody who does not look German distorts the true picture.
"That has happened mainly in the East, and it's a sign of the collapse of the old system and of the order that held it up," she said.
Racism in a mostly homogeneous, white society like Germany can hide better than it does in a country like Britain or Belgium that had to accept a large number of immigrants from former colonies.
And Mrs. John was optimistic. "We know many Germans don't object to foreigners being here," she said. Hundreds of thousands of them took to the streets in November to protest the harassment of foreigners and to demand that the authorities do more to stop it.
The reason Germany attracts almost two-thirds of the total number of asylum-seekers in the European Community, according to many officials, is that the German Constitution gives them a better chance of getting one foot in the door. It allows anyone a chance to make a claim and obliges the state to look after them while officials painstakingly examine it.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl tried this year to get the Constitution changed to allow a speedup in the examination procedure, which might discourage some "refugees" from coming, but he was blocked by the opposition Social Democrats.
Failing that, he tried at the meeting of European leaders in Maastricht, the Netherlands, to get the others to agree to a common asylum and immigration policy to be decided by majority vote. Instead, they agreed to coordinate them as closely as possible by the end of 1993, in effect putting off an attempt to find a solution.
"Politicians show a helplessness that confuses and disturbs voters," Mrs. John said. One way out, she suggested, might be for countries like Germany to give up the pretense that they do not allow immigration -- since most of the asylum seekers who stay on are not expelled even if they are rejected -- and instead to set limits on numbers of immigrants.
With civil war in Yugoslavia and economic chaos in the territory of the old Soviet Union, German newspapers and magazines often speak of the threat of millions of refugees flooding in unless something is done to bar the door. But so far, the main group that has come are the descendants of ethnic Germans imported into Russia in the 18th century by Catherine the Great. And according to the weekly news magazine Der Spiegel, only 50,000 non-Germans have been granted German citizenship in the last 10 years.
 
France
 New Citizens And Illegal Aliens
 In France, by contrast, the census of 1990 showed that 1.77 million people who had acquired their French citizenship were living in the country at the end of the year, representing 3.13 percent of the total population of more than 56 million.
Estimates of the number of foreigners living illegally in France range to the hundreds of thousands. Many of them work in the construction industry in big cities like Paris, Lyon or Marseille, according to Michel Devacht, a caseworker with the French Democratic Confederation of Labor.
"Any economist will tell you these people are necessary for the economy," Mr. Devacht said, because they do dirty or disagreeable work that French workers no longer want to do. "But there are three million unemployed, so they are a scapegoat."
Last month, the ultra-right National Front party of Jean-Marie Le Pen proposed an anti-immigration platform that would ship out unwanted aliens by boat, and put those awaiting expulsion into guarded camps.
It is not competition for jobs, but skin color that often defines the true nature of the antagonism, according to many experts.
"What worries the French is not the number of people who are legally foreigners, but the number of non-European immigrants and their children," Robert Sole wrote last month in the daily Le Monde.
Mr. Devacht said, "Eastern Europeans are invisible." Black Africans and people from the formerly French territories of North Africa stood out and were resented, even though statistics show that the North Africans are 80 percent more likely to lose their jobs in hard times than "native" French workers are, according to Mr. Sole.
 
Britain
New Rules Due On Asylum-Seekers
 Nowhere is the racist aspect of the new European anxiety about immigrants more open than in Britain, where there were fewer than 20,000 nonwhite residents before the collapse of the empire.
Today the nonwhite population is about 2.6 million, 4.7 percent of the population of about 56 million and more than half of them of Indian, Pakistani or Bangladeshi origin, according to official statistics, and about one-fifth of West Indian origin. Yet it is still possible for a well-dressed black man to walk into a barbershop, as one did near Victoria Station the other day, and cause all three Italian barbers to stop snipping. Asked what he wanted, the man answered, "A haircut." Apologetically but firmly, the chief barber answered, "We don't know how to cut your kind of hair."
British immigration from former colonies has been largely stopped, and only about 50,000 people a year are accepted here for settlement every year, many of them from Canada or Australia. The thought that more are seeking entry, most of them from Asia or Africa, raises fears among some Britons that their country might soon become ethnically unrecognizable.
Applications for asylum in Britain have risen from 5,000 in 1988 to an estimated 50,000 this year, according to Home Secretary Baker.
The British are enacting new legislation so the authorities can determine whether asylum-seekers qualify within 90 days, instead of years as before. Refugees would have only two days to appeal refusals, in writing, to immigration officials who could decide, without a hearing, within five days whether an "arguable" case exists.
"I do not think the problem is a question of numbers, though numbers make it worse," wrote Charles Moore in The Spectator Magazine, known for its conservatism, earlier this fall.
"It is a question of race," he went on. "You can be British without speaking English or being Christian or being white, but nevertheless Britain is basically English-speaking, Christian and white, and if one starts to think that it might become basically Urdu-speaking and Muslim and brown, one gets frightened and angry."
So the reaction has led, as it has in other European countries, to pressure to crack down and keep more such people out. At the beginning of November, Britain doubled the fine on foreign airlines that fly in foreigners without proper entry documents, from 1,000 to 2,000, or $3,600, per person.
The problem, as Amnesty International and other organizations that look after the rights of asylum-seekers and refugees have pointed out, is that most people who do qualify for asylum are likely as not to arrive without passports or visas because asking for them in the countries from which they fled could have been dangerous.
Increasingly, the London-based human rights organization said in a report at the end of November, all governments in Europe, not just Britain's, are taking a restrictive approach toward asylum-seekers. And increasingly, they are playing with people's lives.
Last March, in an example Amnesty International cited in its report, 17 Tamils from Sri Lanka, which has been torn by civil strife for the last several years, arrived at Schwechat Airport in Vienna and claimed asylum. The Austrian authorities turned them back to Rome, through which they had passed in transit on their way to Vienna, saying that because they had first arrived on Italian soil, Italy should consider their claim first.
"In Vienna, they were held in the transit lounge and denied access to a U.N. representative," Amnesty International reported. Upon their return to Italy, they were sent back to Sri Lanka as "deportees in transit" from Austria.
United Nations officials said later that at least some of the Tamils had presented "clear grounds for asylum" to the Austrian airport authorities, according to Amnesty.
 
The Outlook
Restrictions Seem Most Likely
 Small wonder, perhaps, that at Maastricht, the European Community countries agreed to leave asylum policies in the hands of national governments, for the most part, instead of agreeing to common policies.
"That would have lost us our ability to control our own borders," said a British official close to Prime Minister John Major. "The long-term solution is to strengthen everybody's external frontiers."
The outlook, as Eastern Europe and the lands of the former Soviet Union continue to be wracked by upheavals, is for a restrictive policy that, in most countries, favors whites from Eastern Europe who can speak the language of the country they seek to settle in and have, in the eyes of the authorities, a reasonable chance of economic success.
"Either we continue with a very restrictive immigration policy," Mr. Moore wrote in The Spectator, "or we develop a more liberal one which is more 'racist.' "
With nationalist parties feeding off the discontent with the present trend in Belgium, Germany, Austria, and France, many outsiders fear that he may be right.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 29 about migration in Europe misstated an eligibility rule for German citizenship. The 1949 constitution offers citizenship to ethnic Germans from all former territories of the Third Reich, and to people who were deprived of German citizenship on political, racial or religious grounds by the Nazis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Resentment over the growing number of refugees and immigrants in Western Europe has nurtured right-wing political movements in several countries. The influx has been heaviest in Germany where right-wing youths marched in Halle in November waving old German flags in protest. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special report

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); AUSTRIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; BELGIUM; SWITZERLAND; FRANCE; GERMANY EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); AUSTRIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); PUBLIC OPINION ; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET IMMIGRATION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



993 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 4; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Amid Recession, a Recovery for Shelton

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
TWO years ago, the vacancy rate for Shelton's six million square feet of office and industrial buildings was 37 percent, the highest in Fairfield County.
This was a result of a building spree that began in the late 70's, when the city courted developers in an effort to shed its smokestack image and create a more viable economy. Hundreds of thousands of square feet of new commercial space came onto the market in time for the 1987 crash. 
 For the next three years, half-finished and completed buildings went begging for buyers. With overbuilding rife everywhere and prices dropping, companies sought more fashionable southern Fairfield towns in preference to Shelton.
But this year, Shelton's office vacancy rate dropped substantially, to 20 percent. Less than 530,000 of a total of 2.5 million square feet of office space remain vacant, and only 10 percent of almost four million square feet of light industrial space is empty. Shelton has absorbed more than 200,000 square feet in 1991, bringing its vacancy rate below those of its chief competitors, Stamford, at 22 percent, and Norwalk, at 22.8.
A deepening recession has heightened interest in Shelton's lower costs and taxes, expandable tracts of land, and most importantly, accessibility to a geographically broad labor market. "It's a first choice now," said James Fagan, vice president at the CB Commercial Real Estate Group in Stamford.
The Prudential Relocation Corporation moved its northeast headquarters this year from Merritt 7, a prestigious complex in Norwalk, to Enterprise Tower II in Shelton, merging a small New Jersey office into its new 35,000-square-foot space. Retention of employees was a key element.
"We couldn't tap into a stable labor market in Norwalk," said Richard Schwartz, senior vice president for Prudential Relocation. The turnover among clerical and middle management employees earning $20,000 to $60,000 a year was around 25 percent because of the long travel time to reach affordable housing.
Enterprise Tower II, a 290,000-square-foot, 10-story building was completed last spring. Some 150,000 square feet is available at rents of $13.50 to $15.50 a square foot. Its twin, completed two years ago, is connected by an atrium, and completely leased.
"We saved 20 to 25 percent in rent and got more amenities," Mr. Schwartz said. For the convenience of its tenants, the complex has its own cafeteria, dry cleaner, florist, hair salon, carwash, copy center, bank teller machine, limo and car rental service, helicopter service to Manhattan and travel service.
Robert Scinto of Greenwich, its developer, is the largest taxpayer in town. He paid $1.6 million into Shelton's coffers in 1990. A former Bridgeport plumber, he owns 28 office buildings with a total of two million square feet, most of it in Shelton. "What brought me here was Route 8," he said, referring to the north-south expressway from Bridgeport to Waterbury. "You can attract executives from Stamford and entry-level employees from Naugatuck." Driving time to Waterbury, Stamford, Danbury, Norwalk, New Haven or Bridgeport ranges from 10 to 30 minutes.
"LABOR costs are significantly lower simply because of housing," he continued. "Condos in Naugatuck go for $49,900. You can pay people $300 a week and they are happy with it. When Cartier moved into Enterprise Towers they had 2,000 applicants for 60 jobs."
He will begin building a Finast Supermarket of 67,000 square feet on Bridgeport Avenue in March.
"We have our city approvals, and Finast advances construction funds for its own facilities," he said. Site work on a Sheraton Hotel, to be built within the 100-acre parcel on which Enterprise Towers sits, is under way, he said, adding, "when banks are ready to lend, we will start construction."
Confidence in the continued growth of the Route 8 corridor was demonstrated by Zell-Merrill Lynch II, which bought a 162,000-square-foot office building at 2 Trap Falls Road for $5.25 million last month. The new investment fund with $500 million at its disposal was formed by Sam Zell, a real estate investor from Chicago. The sale was negotiated by Jeffrey Dunne and Mr. Fagan at CB Commercial.
John Morrow of CB Commercial arranged the purchase in July of the Philips Medical Systems building at 710 Bridgeport Avenue by Auguste-Thouard of Greenwich, the American arm of a major French real estate firm. The 450,000-square-foot office and industrial complex on 36 acres was sold for $22 million, with 300,000 square feet leased back to Philips for 10 years.
ALAIN LeBLEU, president of Auguste-Thouard, said "we have made only two acquisitions in the last two years and both of them are in Shelton." The company has acquired some $75 million worth of commercial real estate on Long Island, in Westchester County and Connecticut since it opened here in 1982.
In 1990 it bought the 155,000-square-foot former ITT building on 15 acres at 1 Research Drive. After a total renovation, the two-story building is 75 percent rented.
"We've done well here, and I don't see why we would not do more," Mr. Le Bleu said. "We plan to build an addition to the Philips complex to accommodate a second corporate tenant with a combination of office and industrial space. We are in the design phase, but we will not go ahead until we have a commitment from a tenant."
Mark Lauretti, Shelton's new Mayor; Alton Russell, the new chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission, Mr. Scinto and local officials and businessmen met in December to discuss the city's future.
"Route 8 is doing well, but downtown is badly in need of revitalization, with a better balance of housing and retail," the Mayor said. A new plan of development focusing on that issue will be presented at public hearings in March, Mr. Russell said.
Howe Avenue, the principal downtown street, overlooks the Housatonic River, but is separated from it by old brick factories, nondescript stores, and a grubby, debris-filled site where the Goodrich Rubber Company burned down in 1975.
Until developers can be found to recycle the historically significant street of 19th century buildings into apartments, shops and offices, Shelton remains a divided city. Its downtown is shunned by employees, residents and customers of Route 8's modern office parks, houses, condominiums and shopping centers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SHELTON (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRENDS (66%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DAVID DAVIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1992



994 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 19; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Recalling a Year of Mostly Pluses

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHERMAN

 BODY:
EVEN as we prepare to greet the New Year, it might be useful to look back at some of the cultural events that brightened (or dampened) the Westchester music scene in 1991.
Among other happenings, for instance, the county gained a shiny new chamber orchestra: the Hutchinson River Chamber Players. Founded and directed by Jeffrey Levine, a Pelham resident, the ensemble made its debut a month ago. 
 "It is rare to have professionally played chamber music brought right into our community spaces," Mr. Levine said. He added that he expects the group to perform in libraries, churches, synagogues and town halls countywide, and perhaps in Connecticut. For further details, call 738-6905.
What used to be An Evening Dinner Theater in Elmsford reappeared last March as the sumptuously appointed Westchester Broadway Theater. Musical comedies remain the primary production focus of this performing space, but concerts and children's shows also spice the schedule. Call 965-5232.
After four years of June recitals, the Dobbs Ferry Chamber Festival expanded into a fall-spring season as the Festival Chamber Music Society. The opening program of the new concert series took place in October and will be followed by recitals on Jan. 26 and April 12. Call 693-2506.
Mount Sinai has a medical recommendations service, so why not a musicians referral agency for performing artists? Since March, the Westchester Conservatory's Musical Entertainment Bureau has brightened dozens of corporate and private functions around the county by providing faculty groups, ranging from a flute and harp duo to a full jazz band. "People have found out that we're reliable and good," said the coordinator, Robert Arthurs, himself a jazz trumpeter, "so the bureau is really flourishing." Call 761-3715.
The Hudson Opera Theater began life in February with an all-star gala and followed it up with a Cole Porter evening in July, but the new opera company's plans to stage the American premiere of Bellini's "Zaira" have not materialized. "Getting the score from Sicily proved to be more complicated than we thought," said Margaret Cicogna, one of the founders of the company, "and while we've raised some of the necessary funds, we don't yet have enough. We're hoping for 1992." Call 633-2929.
In April, the scheduled orchestral concert of Philharmonia Virtuosi turned into a chamber recital. "We can't continue to provide our customary programs when the income flow stops," said the music director, Richard Kapp. Call 693-5595.
The following month, in a similar budget-cutting maneuver, the Westchester Choral Society changed its concert venue from the State University of New York at Purchase to the Presbyterian Church of White Plains and used organ instead of orchestral accompaniment. "I'd hate to say we were broke," said the music director, Lyndon Woodside, "but we're trying to be prudent about spending money." The financial crunch eased somewhat in October when the choir won the $10,000 grand prize in Pepsi-Cola's nationwide home video talent contest. Call 693-2453.
Deteriorating economic conditions and the shrinking availability of corporate financing were cited as reasons for discontinuing the much-admired June festival of Summer Evenings at Sarah Lawrence. "We feel we made a valuable contribution to the community," said Kenneth Wentworth, who had directed the series since its founding in 1977, "but now it's time to move on to something else."
The Phoenix Award for Rising From the Ashes goes to the Chappaqua Orchestra, which disbanded in 1990 but will re-emerge on Jan. 11 as the Chappaqua Chamber Orchestra.
The Lone Ranger Prize for Riding to the Rescue goes to the Prague Guitar Quartet, which flew to Yonkers when the Amsterdam Guitar Trio abruptly canceled its January concert at the Hudson River Museum.
The Authenticity at All Costs Medal goes to Richard Kapp for importing two theorbos (double-necked lutes with two sets of strings) for a Vivaldi concerto performance by Philharmonia Virtuosi. "Their use will be a first in Westchester," said the conductor, "and hopefully a last."
And the Salieri Citation for Courageous Programming in this Mozart Bicentennial Year: a tie between Sarah Lawrence College, which mounted a Schubert Festival in May, and Bard College, which devoted most of its August Festival to the works of Felix and Fanny Mendelssohn.
Finally, congratulations to some of the organizations that celebrated anniversaries in 1991, a group that included the following:
The Camerata (5 years), under the founding director, Victor Lionti, bringing fine chamber orchestra performances to Westchester Community College.
Thom Wolke's Twin Cloud Productions (5 years), a major presenter of folk artists in various locations around the county.
The Master Singers of Westchester (10 years), which has grown from a group of 15 into a choir of more than 90 under the founding ministrations of the conductor Les Robinson Hadsell.
The Paramount Center for the Arts (10 years), which is entering its second decade with Mark Hough as its new (as of August) executive director.
The Pelham Arts Center (15 years), which has added a Summer Arts Day Camp to its other cultural services.
The Old Mill Singers (20 years), known for community as well as musical good deeds.
The Concert Society of Putnam and Northern Westchester (20 years), an outstanding example of the musical scene in the northern part of the county.
The Tappan Zee Chamber Series (20 years), still enticing many Westchesterites across the Hudson.
The SUNY Purchase Performing Arts Center (20 years), a true hub of cultural activity in the county.
The Taghkanic Chorale (25 years), 120-voices strong and flourishing under the direction of Dennis Keene. It began its silver-anniversary season earlier this month with a performance of Bach's B minor Mass.
The Westchester Chamber Music Society (40 years), which gave its Rye audience a Champagne reception marking its birthday last April.
The Westchester Choral Society (50 years), justly proud of its commitment to "cultivating musical appreciation in Westchester."
The Westchester Symphony (65 years), which marked its anniversary with a new conductor. "Martin Canellakis brought us a long way, and we are eternally grateful to him," said the orchestra's president, Henry Oppenheimer. "However, we now have an opportunity to introduce a vibrant, upcoming star, Anthony Aibel."
Manhattanville College (150 years), celebrating all year with a wide spectrum of arts presentations. The most ambitious: the Westchester premiere in April of "Epithalamion," described as "a collaborative performance blending dance, poetry and song."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); OPERA (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RELIGION (75%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: SHERMAN, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992



995 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: More Layoffs at Stake if State Makes Cuts in Aid

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

 BODY:
LAYOFFS of county government workers mandated by passage of the 1992 budget could exceed the hundreds expected if the state seeks to solve its fiscal problem as it did a year ago, by reducing aid to local communities, County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke said last week.
Mr. O'Rourke, pleased with the few changes imposed by the Board of Legislators on his $1.18 billion no-tax- increase spending plan, said in an interview that the Westchester budget "was based on us not getting hit by Albany any more than we were last June" when state support for schools and local government was slashed. 
 "We may have some leeway in our budget through our own economies," he said, "but we can't take much of a hit without it resulting in people getting laid off." This would be in addition to more than 500 county jobs, some filled and some vacant, that are to be eliminated after Jan. 1.
 
200 County Jobs Trimmed
 The 1992 Westchester budget submitted in November by Mr. O'Rourke was trimmed by $186,000, less than 0.02 percent of the total, and was approved by the Board on Dec. 19 by a 15-to-2 margin. The legislators, who had cut millions of dollars from each of the last two budgets, said they were pleased with Mr. O'Rourke's having made the cuts himself this time.
But the fiscal plan cut 200 county jobs and called for the elimination of another 300 positions, which Mr. O'Rourke said could be saved only if the Civil Service Employees Association, which represents 6,500 county workers, sacrificed a 5.25 percent wage increase that is to take effect in 1992. The union refused to do so.
More than half the layoffs could be avoided, county officials said, if enough long-term employees leave by Jan. 1 through an early-retirement plan. Mr. O'Rourke said he would be working on that aspect of the budget in the days leading up to the new year.
He said the association had made a pragmatic decision in declining to renegotiate its 1992 salary increase. "From a human standpoint, however, I would disagree with their choice. What they've done, in effect, is throw the 500 names to me and say 'go ahead, fire them.' "
Cheryl Melton, president of the Westchester unit of the association, said: "O'Rourke is putting pressure on the union to take the heat off himself. He spends millions of dollars on parklands, outside contractors and on political appointments, then expects to balance the budget by firing employees earning $20,000 a year."
 
'You End Up Dislocating Hundreds'
 The procedure is complicated, Mr. O'Rourke said, "with two-thirds of them having the right of 'bump and retrieval," a process that enables employees slated for dismissal to take the place of other employees doing similar work but with less seniority. "You end up dislocating hundreds and hundreds more," Mr. O'Rourke said. The disruption could be compounded, he added, if the economy fails to improve next year and if the State Legislature imposes reduced levels of support to balance its own budget.
"The schools, I think, are going to get hit again," he said, "and I don't think there's going to be much Medicaid reform," a change that would reduce an expense mandated by the state.
Mr. O'Rourke, who is awaiting confirmation hearings for a Federal judgeship, said he felt that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo made the right decision in saying he would forgo a run for the Presidency. "I didn't think he should run; the state is in enough difficulty, requiring his attention here, and that's a conclusion he reached, too," Mr. O'Rourke said.
The County Executive also said Westchester should be "in good shape, certainly better off than any other county I can think of, once we get through this business of the layoffs." But the county's fiscal situation also depends "on what the state does to us," he added.
Mr. O'Rourke was pessimistic about any real fiscal reform in Albany this year, predicting, "They will be doing another paper-the-cracks job because they've already got lots of problems with local governments." The legislators in both houses will be running for office in 1992, making reform even less likely.
"There's lots of talk about Medicaid reform," Mr. O'Rourke said, "but many members of the Assembly have constituents in large numbers" depending on Medicaid "with the result that the legislators won't touch the issue."
 
Automobile Fleet Funds Cut
 In reducing the O'Rourke spending plan, the Board of Legislators cut $100,000 from the amount designated for the county's fleet of automobiles, eliminated a $24,000 increase in financing for the Information Center, cut $30,000 from the Westchester County Cooperative Extension program and eliminated $650 stipends provided for the Tax Commission.
It authorized the Department of Law to hire 10 new county attorneys, a revenue-saving measure in that it should enable the county to reduce its contracts with outside lawyers. The Board said the funds for the new jobs should come out of the $4 million set aside for outside counsel.
Financing for Lyme disease prevention was halved, leaving $83,000 available for use next year. It also cut in half, to $250,000, the amount designated for medical services and equipment for handicapped children but called on Mr. O'Rourke to restore the 10 percent cut in assistance to neighborhood health centers.
 
Capital Expenditures Also Approved
 The Board also approved a $73.9 million capital budget, which includes the start of major improvements at the County Airport, which is to get a new terminal and parking structure and improved access roads. The county will begin work on rehabilitating the County Courthouse complex, beginning with recovering the "skin" of the low-rise structure between the courthouse and the County Office Building.
Lynn Oliva, the Acting Commissioner of Planning, said that while some capital projects were being deferred because of cost cutting, the same tough economic times that prompted legislators to trim some projects "makes a capital budget an important element in providing jobs."
"It's also an excellent time to borrow money because interest rates are low," she said. "The economic situation now is sluggish, but when things get better we want to be in a position to attract and retain business."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LAYOFFS (91%); COUNTIES (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DISMISSALS (79%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992



996 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1586 words

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN

 BODY:
IN the early autumn of 1990, 7-year-old Shawn Fernandez returned home from playing tag and found his father and a few relatives at the family's house in the Hill section of New Haven. When he asked where his mother was, "everyone got nervous and said they didn't know," the boy said. "After a while I just figured she had left me."
The next day Shawn's father handed him an article from The New Haven Register reporting that his mother had been seriously wounded in a gun accident involving her 16-year-old son. While reading the article, his emotions shifted from deep sadness to anger, said Shawn, whose mother has since made a slow recovery. 
 The boy recalled: "At first I thought: 'My mother's dead. She's dead!' And I started to cry. Then I got real mad, because after all this time nobody would tell me what happened. I mean, it's not like I'd never seen anyone shot before."
Several months earlier, Shawn had seen a young man gunned down on a nearby street corner, he said. Once they felt it was safe, he and some other children ran across the street and stood over the lifeless body.
"He had a bull's eye in the middle of his chest with a big circle of blood around it," Shawn said. "I still have dreams about it."
Last spring, he said, two boys he grew up with were killed by gunshots. One of them, Elvis Crnkovic, 15, was hit in a drive-by shooting as he played basketball a few yards from Shawn's front door. The boy was buried in the cemetery across the street from Shawn's house, where the two played football.
"Elvis was my best friend," said Shawn.
Born during the early 1980's, when the illegal drug trade began to take hold and build momentum in New Haven, Shawn and his playmates are growing up amid a culture of violence. Well acquainted with the sounds of gunshots and sirens, and street savvy about the workings of drug gangs, the children of the city's poor neighborhoods often describe their lives in a fairy tale fashion: danger lurks around every street corner, and safe havens are hard to come by.
From an early age, several children said in recent interviews, they are taught by their parents or peers how to take cover when they hear gunshots, what to do if asked by a dealer to deliver drugs and how to react if someone aims a gun at them. Fear and helplessness pervade their young lives.
"I've been afraid to leave my house for a long time," said 8-year-old Tyrone Fernandez, who is not related to Shawn. "There are bad people out there with all kinds of weapons who might try to chase me."
Romon Lockman, 11, said: "They don't chase me, but they hit me with their fist and stuff. They'll corner me and tell me that if I live on the street, I have to be in their gang." Darrell Sawyer, 9, spoke about a recent encounter with drug dealers. "They said they'd give me $200 to run an errand for them," he said. "When I said no, they pulled a long gun on me like the police use, and I ran home as fast as I could."
Sitting around a table recently at the Hill Cooperative Youth Services center, the children talked about their contempt for drugs and described how they had watched cocaine and crack destroy many people they loved. Some said the behavior of addicted siblings made it difficult for them to concentrate on their homework or to find any privacy. Others said they feared the personality changes that drugs induced.
"I can always tell when my uncle's on cocaine," said one 9-year-old boy. "He beats me with a stick."
Kimiko Archer, 10, described drug dealers. "First they give you that real nasty look," said the boy, whose imitation sparked laughter from the others, "then come up and put their arm around you and start flashing their cash."
 
Drugs' Harsh Toll
 The youth center, the children said said, is one of the few places where they feel secure and do not have to face dealers. Equipped with a basketball court, game rooms and classrooms, the center offers recreation, tutoring and counseling for children from 2 1/2 to 13.
Sherill E. Moore, who helped start the center in the early 70's, said that in those days violence among teen-agers in New Haven took the form of occasional fistfights. But by the early 80's, he said, drugs had already begun to take a harsh toll, and "everyone assumed that things couldn't get any worse."
Four years ago, however, the smuggling of guns into city neighborhoods intensified an already explosive environment among drug gangs, he said. And though educational campaigns by the schools and the media have gotten the message to young children that drugs can destroy, "we're now starting to lose kids to the glory of cops and robbers," he said. "The guns are shadowing out the drugs."
Mr. Moore added that when the center closes at 5:30, children will often linger or cry because they do not want to walk home.
"I never thought I'd see New Haven like this," he said. "People have become prisoners in their homes. They are afraid to sit outside or walk to the store after 5 o'clock. And nobody seems to be able to control what's happening out there. It's absolutely heartbreaking."
 
Threats and Foul Language
 Shawn's parents, Herbie and Leona Fernandez, said that when their family first moved into the Hill section seven years ago, the neighborhood was closely knit. People watched out for each other, they said, and children played without fear. Neighborhood barbecues and holiday dinners were common. But since the advent of drugs and guns, they said, the neighborhood spirit has shifted to an atmosphere of mistrust and greed.
Other residents, who insisted that their names not be used, said that the drug dealers had taken over their neighborhood and often threatened them with guns.
On a street corner in the Hill Section one recent afternoon, several young men in hooded parkas or ski caps openly sold drugs to a steady stream of customers who pulled up to the curb in cars like Jeeps, Saabs and minivans. Each transaction took about 60 seconds. One dealer pulled out a large wad of bills several times and counted the money.
Mrs. Fernandez said that more than a year ago a suspected drug dealer attacked her in front of her home. When her 16-year-old son saw this, she said, he ran into their house and got a shotgun. In the scuffle, she said, she tried to grab the gun from him, and she accidentally pulled the trigger, and she was shot in the abdomen.
She said that the son who was involved in the gun accident recently served a prison term for drug charges, and a 14-year-old son has been arrested on several charges, including car theft and trespassing. She wants to move out of the neighborhood before the same thing happens to Shawn, she said.
"My boys are good boys," she said. "But there's just too much going down out there for them to take. All I want is to scoop them up and get them out of this hell."
 
Workshops for Self-Esteem
 Sheryl Burack-Lynch, the director of the Coordinated Council for Children in Crisis, said the economy and the lack of affordable housing in New Haven have made it harder for families in violent neighborhoods to move to safer environments. She added that children who grow up surrounded by violence often have difficulty later in life developing attachments to people and a sense of security.
For five years the director of the Dixwell-Newhallville Community Health Center in New Haven, Robert Page, has tried to help children in the city cope with their environment. The center holds workshops in public school classrooms aimed at developing self-esteem and improving skills of negotiation and judgment, he said. In one simulated exercise, children develop a sense of control over their environment by discussing ways to respond to drug dealers who intimidate them or offer them money.
Like others who work with young children, Mr. Page said that the next phase in fighting the drug war should be a campaign to teach children how to resolve disputes without resorting to violence. What children see on the street is reinforced by television, martial-arts films and video games, he said, which may help them build hand-eye coordination, but they need alternatives to enable them to develop higher thinking skills.
"So much of what they do and see is all about escaping danger," Mr. Page said.
Like many of the children who live in the Hill section, Shawn Fernandez said he often dreams about escaping danger. In one, he said, he dreamed that an older man he knew, who had been shot and killed, came back from the dead to shoot Shawn. To assuage his fears about drug dealers, he said, he turns on music and choreographs dances that resemble a cross between those of Michael Jackson and the rap singer Hammer.
A self-taught gymnast, Shawn blends in back flips, handstands and the splits. He is one of the few youngsters who can do this, he said, and he likes to fantasize that all the neighborhood children follow him to a giant playground, where he teaches some his dance stunts and becomes their leader.
When he grows up, he said, he wants to become President, so he can help children on the street who want to escape violence. Otherwise, he would like to be a surgeon like the one who operated on his mother when she was shot, he said. Sitting with his legs folded on his living room floor, the boy grew silent, as he finished drawing a picture of a man flying away on top of a giant bumblebee.
"I think that I just want to grow up to make everyone proud of me," he said finally. "I just want to grow up to be a nice man."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shawn Fernandez with his mother, Leona, at their home in the Hill section of New Haven where violence is commonplace. (pg. 1); Romon Lockman, left, with playmates at the Hill Cooperative Youth Services center, a refuge from the streets. The 11-year-old said of drug dealers, "They'll corner me and tell me that if I live on the street, I have to be in their gang." (pg. 8)(Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); FIREARMS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); TRENDS (69%); GANGS (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (61%); INTERVIEWS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



997 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Funds Pared, Civil Courts Fight Rise In Backlog

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. HICKERSON

 BODY:
THE axiom that justice delayed is justice denied is being put to the test on Long Island as backlogs pile up in civil courts at a time of state budget cutbacks.
Some lawyers in Nassau and Suffolk estimate that a civil case filed in State Supreme Court may now take up to six years to be heard, mostly because of state-imposed reductions in court personnel. 
 According to a court official, 115 people were laid off in late September in Suffolk and another reduction of at least 125 is scheduled next month.
"We are down approximately 110 positions from where we were six months ago," said Arthur M. Cromarty, Suffolk's administrative judge for the Supreme Court. "As a consequence, it is safe to assume we have been falling behind. The impact has been chiefly in the civil part of the Supreme Court, the jury trial part."
Robert P. Bennett, the chief clerk to the Supreme Court in Suffolk, said 20 percent more cases have been filed in Supreme Court than last year and that with the staff reductions, 28 percent of the county's total cases are overdue to have been heard. "We are losing ground every day," Mr. Bennett said.
"Half of what we do goes on in the back office," Mr. Bennett said. "The judges are working in their chambers, getting out opinions and decisions. It's not all in the courtroom, Perry Mason stuff. There are literally mountains of paperwork in the back offices."
In Nassau, the administrative judge, Leo F. McGinity, said that if the next round of cutbacks occurs, 132 positions will be lost. "It will be devastating," Judge McGinity said. About 93 percent of the court's budget goes to personnel.
Court financing is at the heart of a feud between Gov Mario M. Coumo and the state's chief judge, Sol Wachtler. After a $966 million request for court financing was reduced by $77 million, Judge Wachtler sued the Governor, arguing that the cuts placed an unconstitutional burden on the judiciary system. The Governor responded with a lawsuit of his own.
Without further financing, Judge Wachtler is threatening to shut down the civil side of the Supreme Court.
"The governor and legislature have a constitutional obligation to provide the funds the judiciary needs to survive," said A. Thomas Levin, president of Nassau's bar association. "It's an independent part of government and can't be subjected to legislative whims. They could wipe out the judiciary as a branch of government."
"People think this is a lawyer problem and it doesn't affect the general public, but it does," he added. "If you look at the ripple effect out on the economy, it's going to affect everybody."
The Suffolk County Bar Association estimates that if the civil side closes, the Suffolk economy alone could lose up to $225 million yearly that would have been distributed through lawsuit settlements. "If the tide of settlements stops," its president, David H. Besso, said, "that would further damage the Long Island economy and severely impact projections for sales tax revenues."
Mr. Besso said the civil side of the Supreme Court is bearing the brunt of the cuts because the criminal side must function in a timely fashion to avoid violating defendants' constitutional rights. He also said family and matrimonial matters take precedent as well.
While judicial districts differ in size, which makes comparisons difficult, Long Island's case backlog appears to be high. Mary DeBourbon, of the state Office of Court Administration, said that in the ninth judicial district, encompassing Westchester County and others counties to the north, 4.3 percent of the cases are past the state's recommended timetable to be heard. In Brooklyn, that figure is 13 percent. In Suffolk, 28 percent of the cases are overdue, and in Nassau 30 percent.
"The effect of the budget cuts and the shortfalls really has only begun," Ms. DeBourbon said.
Many said the long delays are affecting legal strategies. Normally, both counties encourage parties to meet and try to settle before a case gets to court; more out-of-court settlements help decrease the backlog.
"The possibility for trial is what gets a settlement in cases," Mr. Besso said. "Most cases are settled under that area of coercion, so to speak. So when the court system can't bring the parties together in court in an expeditious fashion, that's when you will have cases that will languish."
In Nassau, 90 percent of the civil cases filed request a jury trial, which consumes a lot of time, Judge McGinity said. But he added that in normal times, 9 out of 10 of those cases are settled before the jury reaches a verdict.
Judge McGinity said he will continue to bring parties together in pretrial conferences, which can foster settlements. "But what I'm hearing," he said , "is insurance companies are saying to plaintiffs, 'You had better settle this because you are not going to get a trial for a while.' So that works against the plaintiff. That's not always the case, but the threat is there."
Eugene J. O'Brien, a lawyer who specializes in civil cases and is co-chairman of the Supreme Court committee of the Suffolk bar, says he tells clients to be prepared to wait as long as six years for trial of an automobile accident lawsuit.
"The paperwork is bogged down so bad that there are mounds and mounds of it on the county clerk's desk," Mr. O'Brien said. "It looks like a mountain of snow. They just don't have the bodies to handle it."
Judge Cromarty, who will step down from his position as Suffolk's administrative judge at the end of the year, expressed some relief at not having to deal with those duties anymore.
"Honestly, it's been a bad year for me," Judge Cromarty said. "I have been an administrative judge for 18 years. I have been building and building and building, not only physical structures but the staff and all. It's not a pleasant feeling to have to tear it down."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; SUPREME COURTS (STATE); TRIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CIVIL COURTS LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); LITIGATION (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: HICKERSON, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



998 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Troupes in Transition With an Air of Promise

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
IT has been a year of beginnings, of disappointment, of transition. The choice depends on one's outlook -- bullish, negative or charitable. However it is perceived, 1991 can be recorded as unexceptional in New Jersey theater annals.
But not uneventful. Although it is futile to search for a best play and wearying to sift through several contenders for the worst, interesting reproductions, noteworthy performances and, most of all, an air of promise rescued the year from the edge of disaster. 
 And what could be more promising, enlivening and affirmative than a brand-new theater? The fuss made over a new home for Crossroads in New Brunswick, reportedly the first expressly built for a black company in this country, was far-reaching. But most of the excitement created by the inaugural play, "Black Orpheus," was in the expectation. Clearly, for Crossroads, the new space represents a beginning, a disappointment and a transition.
For sheer arousal, consider the debuts of two artistic directors: Emily Mann (the McCarter Theater) and Bonnie J. Monte (the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival). Semantics aside, James N. Vagias (American Stage Company) makes three. Although Paul Sorvino, ever visible in films and on television, remains the nominal artistic director of the theater in Teaneck and is reportedly not uninvolved in it, Mr. Vagias, as executive director, is its new presence up front.
Given transitional circumstances, it would be more merciful than charitable to defer comment on Mr. Vagias's artistic judgment. The first two productions under his aegis -- "Williams and Walker" and "Billy Bishop Goes to War," both two-man shows -- appeared to be consequences of economic expediency rather than esthetic choice. But don't ask why the revue "White Lies" was selected as this season's opener. Just write it off.
By contrast, Ms. Mann and Ms. Monte wasted no time asserting themselves. Each took over a lethargic, complacent institution with a bored audience, and promptly shook things up.
Although the results were spotty, the outlook is optimistic. Ms. Mann, who has a cavernous theater in Princeton to contend with, directed a controversial, spacious "Glass Menagerie," with a penetrating performance by Shirley Knight. A finely acted production of an excellent play, "The Film Society," revised for the McCarter after an Off Broadway production three years ago, concluded her first season.
Ms. Monte, encumbered by a technically archaic and altogether inadequate, restrictive theater in Madison, unblocked it, presumably for the first time. She lured accomplished actors (Laila Robins, Elizabeth McGovern and Edward Herrmann in "Twelfth Night") and encouraged inventive direction (Dylan Baker's antic "Midsummer Night's Dream").
If Mr. Herrmann's idiosyncratic performance as Malvolio was more indicative of individual forethought than ensemble spirit, that was the positive flip side of limited rehearsal time. And while star power is not what repertory theater is about, who's to argue with incandescent star power?
Or transcendence? Given the Paper Mill Playhouse's penchant for overproducing and undercasting, George Grizzard, a consummate character actor in his prime, and Judy Kaye, who does everything in musicals, from high kicks to high C's -- and she's funny, too -- had a grip on real human and theatrical values amid surrounduing ostentation.
Besides "To Kill a Mockingbird" with Mr. Grizzard and "The Merry Widow" with Ms. Kaye, revivals at the Millburn showplace were enhanced by the Tony and Maria of Scott Carollo and Laurie Landry in "West Side Story" and Jane Lanier's Cassie in "A Chorus Line."
Though the value of names -- Eli Wallach and Anne Jackson in "Sparky and the Fitz" and Estelle Parsons in "Forgiving Typhoid Mary" -- could not transfuse listless new works, Harriet Harris made a striking impression as an adversarial doctor, the best-written role in "Typhoid Mary."
Other performances gave lingering pleasure: Woody Romoff in "Cantorial" and Bruce Adler and Lori Wilner in "The Immigrant," all transmitting homey warmth, at the Forum in Metuchen, and Jordan Baker exuding sensuality and intelligence as Rosalind in "As You Like It" at the Rutgers Arts Center in New Brunswick.
Among the season's disappointments, count such small professional companies as the Rivoli Stage in Rutherford and T-3 Productions in New Brunswick to come up with reasonable plays, and the failure of the three-play alliance between the Princeton Repertory and the Loaves and Fish Company, the Jersey City company now in limbo, to continue beyond the second production.
But promises persist. Speculation that the ineffable Ms. Robins may return to the Shakespeare Festival in Madison next summer is cheering indeed. Laura San Giacomo, Linda Hunt, Mary Stuart Masterson, Frances McDormand as cast members and Lanford Wilson as translator are sparking interest in Ms. Mann's production of "The Three Sisters" next month.
Add to that the return of Ms. Knight in a new play by Edward Albee, a month later, and you have a vital, long-absent anticipatory element of theater -- a real buzz.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CROSSROADS THEATER (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ) GLASS MENAGERIE (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CROSSROADS THEATER (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); THEATER (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



999 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: What Business Leaders Predict for 1992

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
IN assessing the county's economic prospects for the new year, the mood of Westchester business leaders is somber. In interviews with eight people across a spectrum of the business community, there was no expectation that the economy would show much improvement in 1992. Although they cited a few reasons for optimism, they suggested that the tools for ending the recession were woefully inadequate.
S. J. Schulman, president of the Westchester County Association: 
 Washington once had a favorite adage: "A rising tide raises all boats." For several years, however, Westchester's tide has been falling, and it will continue to do so next year as well. That means more unemployment, reduced local job opportunities, greater financial problems for more families, increased taxpayer resistance.
During 1991 Westchester lost over 10,000 jobs, the third year of that pattern. The trend will continue in 1992, mostly due to downsizing by companies increasing their efforts to become lean and mean. Even some local governments are starting to follow that new -- for them -- prescription for fiscal survival.
The economic news in Westchester is not as bad as in the state as a whole, in the metropolitan region or in New York City. The latter now has about 10 percent unemployment, almost twice the Westchester rate. Deteriorating conditions in Gotham reduce economic opportunities for Westchester commuters, and the bottom will not be reached in 1992. Instead, New York City employers -- notably the banking and securities and insurance sectors -- continue to reduce jobs as they attempt to sustain their competitiveness.
There are a number of bright spots in the county: corporate successes like Pepsico, Texaco, MBIA, A & W Brands, Melville, Reader's Digest, Ciba-Geigy and the New York Power Authority. But their luster tends to be dimmed by the dark news elsewhere.
Good news during 1992 will flow from the almost universal condition of peace on earth -- certainly more so than at any other time in the last few decades. Westchester does not have a major defense-oriented economy as Long Island does, so there will be limited impact s from defense cutbacks.
The next year will also witness irresistible pressures to cut government expenses -- by the county, cities, towns, villages and school districts -- so that taxes can be brought under some semblance of control. The taxpayer revolt has reached Westchester.
Peggy Tomarkin Greenawalt, president of the Westchester Association of Women Business Owners:
Members see tighter belts, an economy that is unlikely to recover in 1992, very hard work just to stay even and a lack of faith that the success they may be enjoying will hold up.
The mood is unlike that of past years. Hard work is producing good results, but unemployed family members, friends and business associates drain confidence in the economy's recovery. Customer bases are shrinking. The consulting pool is overflowing under the competitive plunge of fledgling swimmers, many of whom are former corporate executives.
There is also a feeling of some optimism. The economy eventually will recover. The United States will not become yesterday's economic superpower, because Americans work harder and fight harder and become more creative and productive when the chips are down.
To make it through the shaky economy, our members count on support from each other and patience. Our organization seems stronger than ever. We have lost fewer members and gained more new members this year than in recent memory.
John Tartaglione, chairman of the Building Trades Employers Association:
Westchester construction-industry employers will face a difficult year in 1992. The downward trend may flatten out, but no significant upturn is expected until 1993.
The industry is made up of about 350 contractors, employing about 30,000 tradesmen and women. About 30 percent of the work force is presently unemployed. It is expected that the number of contracts, or employers, will also be reduced by 30 percent within the next six months.
The private sector -- residential and commercial projects -- normally accounts for 70 percent of the total building-construction volume. This sector has been the hardest hit as a result of overbuilding, the credit crunch and new and proposed environmental regulations. The glut of commercial space and residential units may take two years to work off. But even if this happens, the regulatory problems will still remain.
The one bright spot is public construction and the major infrastructure improvements such as roads and bridges. This sector should remain firm, but not enough to offset the weakness in the private sector. On the plus side, building projects like the Westchester County Airport development, the U.S. Post Office General Mail Facility, the Federal Courthouse and the Fashion Mall in White Plains could begin in 1992, and that will create much-needed activity.
Richard Esposito, president of the Builders Institute of Westchester:
In our 1990-91 forecast we told our 1,300 members there would be a strengthening of home buyers' interest in the last quarter of 1991. That forecast failed to materialize; in fact, the new housing market is virtually nonexistent with no more than 100 units started in the last quarter.
Resales appear to have more support as sellers continue to reduce prices.
Despite falling interest rates, housing starts in Westchester County in 1992 will continue the downward trend from the peak in 1987-88, when about 4,000 dwelling units were started. By this year's end, only about 750 starts are expected to be counted.
While the overall Westchester economy is relatively strong, real estate will continue to lag. Negative consumer attitudes add to the uneasiness.
In the commercial sector, the industry is characterized by strong developers with the ability to ride out what is clearly a bear market. Very attractive tenant deals are being made. Yet it might be as late as 1993-94 before the market turns around.
A serious problem continues to be the lack of financing or refinancing interest by lenders. The credit crunch is stifling what little demand there is for housing and commercial development in the Westchester region. Additionally, balloon mortgages are becoming due on profitable investments and are not being renewed by lenders. Even the strongest builders, developers and real estate investors cannot pay these mortgages off from reserves or cash flow. As a result, needless foreclosure actions are taking place -- further depressing the market.
The unsold inventory of cooperative apartments -- estimated at about 2,600 units -- remains the largest source of moderate-income housing in the county. It is likely that this sector will begin to move in 1992. Moderating interest rates and the steady reduction of inventory should make for a firmer market in late 1992 and early 1993.
Myles McCabe, chairman-elect of the Owners Advisory Council:
Our 400 owners of 28,000 apartment units in Westchester see a number of problems coming together in 1992. The rental market is very soft, and for the first time in many years vacancies are beginning to appear. The result is a serious profit squeeze on many buildings.
With building conversions no longer a viable option, now more than ever the buildings must support themselves with tenant rental income. But as the tenant rent-guidelines process remains heavily politicized, owners find that increases granted are woefully inadequate. Since 1986 increases in rents on one- and two-year leases have averaged 3.75 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively, while building costs have increased on average 6.5 percent per year.
By contrast, apartments not under rent controls (about 5 percent of the total) appear to be doing significantly better. Those owners can get market rents.
First to go are maintenance and repairs. The banks, labor and utilities all get paid, but discretionary expenditures get put on the back burner. The result is a steadily declining quality of the rental-housing inventory.
Because of all these factors, 1992 will see no construction of new rental housing except for those projects that are federally or state subsidized.
The smaller building owners are the most vulnerable, and 50 percent of all the units in the county are held by owners of fewer than 25 units.
Judith J. Deickler, president-elect of the Westchester County Board of Realtors:
The new year, 1992, is the year to attack the devastating effect on real estate of the 1986 Tax Act. In New York State we will have to deal with the capital-gains tax, the so-called Cuomo mansion tax, which is 1 percent of the price of property selling for $1 million or more, and attempts to increase the real-property transfer tax, bankruptcies, government waste and inefficiency and rent control. Let's put excess government lands back on the tax rolls.
Housing affordability is better than it has been in a long time, with low interest rates and moderate pricing in Westchester. But it is, in part, offset by high real estate taxes, tight credit and slowing job and income growth rates.
As land becomes more scarce and undevelopable, we need to increase our efforts to preserve and/or rehabilitate our housing stock.
Fewer new homes being built and realistic pricing will help to lower the inventory of existing housing and produce a slow but steady increase in sales. Westchester has weathered the recession better than most in actually a high-volume year. Activity shifted to moderate-price properties, and we expect more of the same in 1992.
Raymond E. Sacher, president of the Westchester County Bankers Association:
As a result of the Depression-like economy, banks in Westchester and the Northeast continue, for the most part, to report depressed earnings. They struggle to reconstruct their loan portfolios after making provisions for nonperforming assets, mainly in the form of real estate loans.
In many instances, banks are being viewed by the public as restricting the availability of credit as they reinforce existing credit policies, thus assuming a role of "villain" contributing to an already weak economy.
This year, 1991, was to have been the year that Congress passed significant banking-reform legislation. Unfortunately, with the exception of the provision that increased the borrowing authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation by $70 billion, the defeat of the other key issues may hamper reform efforts for years to come.
In 1992 Westchester banks will make Herculean efforts to restore profitability through downsizing, consolidation and mergers. Even with the reduction in overcapacity, bank profitability will return slowly until banks are permitted to compete on a level plain. The business community will continue to exercise caution regarding capital-expenditure decisions, even though interest rates are at their lowest level in 15 years.
Val Reyes, president of the Westchester Hotel Association:
This year our 21 member hotels will be down approximately four occupancy points -- or 150 fewer rooms sold per night -- amounting to a revenue loss of $5 million, and many jobs will be lost as well. The year will end with a 62 percent occupancy rate for 1991 versus 66 percent in Westchester in 1990.
Most hotels in our association submitted their 1992 forecasts in August, optimistic that the free fall would end. From a forecast of zero growth, a decline in occupancy is now likely for 1992.
Average daily room rates may decline even further in Westchester as corporate clients try to extract better deals. Corporate downsizing will idle hotel inventory. In the catering area, heavy shopping around for prices will probably lead to discounting for social and corporate functions.
The Stamford factor now plays a crucial role. With UPS departing for Atlanta, a rate war with Westchester is foreseeable. Unfortunately, the tax situation in Westchester does not help our hotels: guests must pay a 14.75 percent surcharge here and only 6 percent in Connecticut.
The outbound Manhattan market will dry up as New York City hotel rates drop. Leisure travel into Westchester is also at risk: Manhattan has never been as attractive as it is now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEW

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (53%); NVS (NYSE) (53%); NOVN (SWX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (53%); NOVARTIS AG (53%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); WOMEN (73%); INSURANCE (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; SCHULMAN, S J; GREENAWALT, PEGGY TOMARKIN; TARTAGLIONE, JOHN; ESPOSITO, RICHARD; MCCABE, MYLES; DIECKLER, JUDITH; SACHER, RAYMOND E

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992



1000 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Job Seekers Keep Beating a Path To Town Agencies

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THE personnel administrator in Waterbury, John S. Schlosser, expected a lot of interest when the town placed advertisements for police officers recently. He thought he might see as many applications as he did last year, when more than 700 people answered a similar advertisement, he said. But this time he was deluged with more than 1,700 applications.
The same thing happened when he advertised for a clerk-typist, he said. He expected 40 applications; he received 170. 
 "Because of the general downturn in the economy, and the layoffs by the state government, we've been seeing a lot more applications for all positions," Mr. Schlosser said.
 
Most Secure Employment
 Municipal officials around the state report similar experiences. The state government was once seen as the most secure employment, they said, but recent state layoffs, and the threat of more to come, have tarnished that image. And many businesses in the state are in fiscal disarray.
Towns and cities have had their own problems, with employees being asked to accept diminished salaries and benefits and some of the hardest-hit towns laying off workers. But the state's 169 municipalities are increasingly seen as some of the most secure employers left, local officials say.
"We haven't had anyone breaking down our door looking for employment," said Edward T. Went, First Selectman of Roxbury, a town of 1,800 people with a half-dozen general government employees. "But part of it is because people know we don't have any openings."
In larger towns, though, job seekers are overwhelming the personnel departments.
"If we advertise for a police officer, we get 150 applicants," said the town manager in Southington, John Weichsel. "And if we advertise for a laborer, we get 100. The problem now is how to pick people fairly, when you have so many."
Mr. Weichsel said the last position he advertised, a clerk-typist job, brought 55 applications. When evaluating applicants for a typing job, "at least you can give a speed and accuracy test," Mr. Weichsel said. "So it's easier to be objective." But when he is looking for a police officer, he said, how does he weigh the relative strengths of someone who has an advanced degree in law enforcement versus an applicant with 10 or 12 years' experience?
Mr. Weichsel said the advent of binding arbitration in 1985 helped change attitudes toward municipal employment. Salary and benefit awards to town workers have been generous, he said, noting that many towns argue that the awards have been too generous and are supporting attempts in the legislature to change the arbitration process.
"Now we pay more than many private industries," he said, "and our benefits are much better."
Two years ago many municipalities left an engineer's or building official's position vacant for months at a time, because people with those skills could make so much more in private employment. But when the first selectman of Clinton, Paul W. Austin, advertised for a town engineer recently, about 50 resumes quickly piled up on his desk.
"A lot of engineers in private practice aren't too busy, because there aren't any construction projects moving forward," Mr. Austin said. "A lot of them would like the security of full-time work with a municipality. It's not as subject to the whims of the marketplace."
Cari Zimber-Forrest, Norwalk's principal personnel analyst and a director of the state chapter of the Society for Human Resources Management, said that thanks to the recession she has finally been able to find people for formerly hard-to-fill positions like public health nurses and social workers. Many of the applications are coming from laid-off state workers, she said, noting that when she advertised for two truck drivers recently, she had several applications from former employees of the State Transportation Department.
"We've been looking for a operator for our waste water treatment plant for more than a year," Ms. Zimber-Forrest said. "Because of the recession, some other towns have had to let plant operators go. So we finally got some interest, including one very qualified applicant."
Even towns that cannot promise any more job security than private employers have more than enough applicants. Bridgeport, which filed for bankruptcy last summer, hired 26 seasonal laborers to pick up leaves and yard waste and saw the number of applications for those jobs jump to 12 to 15 a day in November, from 6 or 7 a day in October, said Judy C. Creatore, an administrative assistant in the city's Civil Service Department.
 
Higher-Quality Applicants
 Ms. Creatore said Bridgeport recently received eight applications for a dental hygienist job in a city-run clinic.
"We have a lot of people come to our counter looking for work, any work," Ms. Creatore said. "But we don't have anything right now."
Mr. Schlosser in Waterbury said the increase in applications means that towns can have their pick of higher quality employees.
"Just because you're expanding the pool that much, you end up with more good candidates," he said. "When you've got 1,700 applications for a police officer's job, you know you can eliminate a lot of them right off the bat. But you'll also have more at the upper end of the scale. We can be much more confident with 1,700 than we could be with 35."
Mr. Weichsel of Southington also said the economy means more stable town government.
"People aren't leaving city jobs,' he said. "They're so precious now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES EMPLOYMENT (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991

 
