

1201 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Democrats May Nudge Byrd Off Post In Committee

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats are coming around to the view that Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the longest-serving senator in American history, needs to be replaced as chairman of the Appropriations Committee in the next Congress, because he is not up to the immense challenges he would face in that job, Democratic aides said Tuesday. 
 Democratic senators hope Mr. Byrd will step aside voluntarily, the aides said. But, they added, a growing number of Democratic senators would, reluctantly and sorrowfully, try to ease him out as chairman if he did not do so.
 Mr. Byrd, 90, entered the House of Representatives in 1953 and has been a senator since 1959. In a statement Tuesday, he indicated that he would try to hold on to his leadership of the committee, which controls about one-third of all federal spending.
 But many Democratic senators have said they need a stronger, more effective chairman to work with a new president and Speaker Nancy Pelosi in grappling with two wars, a wilting economy and a budget deficit that could be approaching $1 trillion. 
 Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, who is 84, would be in line to succeed Mr. Byrd.
 Politico, the newspaper, reported Tuesday that the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, was quietly preparing to ease Mr. Byrd out.
 No decisions have been made. James P. Manley, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said the Senate Democratic caucus would decide who the committee chairmen are in the next Congress if the Democrats retain control, as expected.
 In his statement Tuesday, Mr. Byrd criticized Mr. Reid and others who he said were ''fomenting this intrigue about musical chairs in the Senate.''
 Efforts to replace Mr. Byrd are a matter of great sensitivity. Democrats revere him for his early opposition to the Iraq war and his zeal in defending Congressional prerogatives, especially the power of the purse.
 The chairman of the Appropriations Committee will need to balance competing forces within the Democratic Party, including a pent-up demand for domestic spending and a commitment to fiscal discipline.
 Mr. Byrd said he was working on legislation to revive the economy. ''It is my intention, as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, to craft a potential second stimulus package that will benefit Main Street America,'' he said. ''I am a West Virginian. I have seen what tough times do to families and to poor folks.''
 The top Republican slot on the committee may also be up in the air, after the conviction Monday of Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska on charges of failing to report more than $250,000 in gifts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Byrd 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); HISTORY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAUCUSES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); IRAQ WAR (67%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (94%); HARRY REID (79%); DANIEL INOUYE (59%); TED STEVENS (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1202 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Russia Seeks To Trade Oil For Loans From China

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
As credit streams from troubled Western banks dry up in the financial crisis, Russian oil companies are negotiating multibillion-dollar loans from a more reliable source: the cash-rich Chinese government. 
 Under a proposed loans-for-oil deal, reported by Reuters on Monday, Russian oil companies would borrow $20 billion to $30 billion from Beijing. In return, they would export about two billion barrels of oil to China over the next 20 years.
 The Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, was in Moscow on Tuesday for talks with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, but there was no indication that the deal had been signed. The agreement would commit Russian companies to redirect some of their energy exports to the East at a time when Russian and Chinese leaders have been saying they would like to see greater integration of their economies, and Russia's relations with the West are at a low point. 
 It would also offer a prime example of the way the financial crisis is realigning global commerce, directing it away from reliance on Wall Street lending and toward China and Japan, with their enormous cash reserves. 
 It was unclear how close Russia and China were to an agreement. A planned pipeline to China, a spur of a trans-Siberian pipeline that is under construction, would be capable of carrying about 300,000 barrels of oil a day. 
 On Tuesday, the countries agreed only to build the spur, from the Russian town of Skovorodino to the Chinese border, at a cost of about $800 million. How much oil will flow through the pipeline, and at what cost per barrel, have been matters of contention for some time and have yet to be resolved. 
 There is little doubt that the crushing cash needs of the Russian oil companies helped narrow the differences. Much of the companies' revenue during the recent spike in oil prices went to taxes. As a result, the state oil company Rosneft owes about $21 billion to Western banks and has already been confronted with demands from creditors for early repayment. 
 China, after years of piling up trade surpluses with the United States, is awash in cash, with currency reserves of $1.9 trillion, the largest in the world. 
 The Russian government, which also has a healthy cash reserve, has pledged $9 billion in loans to its country's oil companies, but that does not begin to cover their cash needs, which include the enormous sums needed to expand into the more expensive and remote fields in Siberia. 
 Mr. Wen and Mr. Putin also discussed relying on rubles and yuan in bilateral trade, rather than on dollars. Mr. Putin is an advocate of reducing the dollar's role in international commerce. ''At the moment the world, which is based on the dollar, is suffering serious problems,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, left, in Moscow on Tuesday for talks with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI KADOBNOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%)

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (53%)

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (53%); ROSN (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); WEN JIABAO (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1203 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Add Some Zeros and Shake Well: A Recipe for a State in Crisis

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
New York's budget gap is not just a number. It is a number that seems to have more and more zeros behind it every few months, a dizzying figure that has grown so much and so fast that Gov. David A. Paterson is running out of ways to convey his anxiety.
 ''People like to talk about the weather so that they can avoid talking about what they need to tell you,'' Mr. Paterson said at a news conference in Manhattan on Tuesday, as wind and cold rain battered the city. ''Imagine outside, the conditions that exist today in New York City are a balmy sunny afternoon in Hawaii. Because that's what it would compare to -- how bad the budget is that I'm about to tell you.''
 In fact, the latest projections are so awful that they really do seem like the product of a fanciful imagination. Since the last time Mr. Paterson gave a budget update, in July, the state's projected deficit over the next three and a half years has doubled -- yes, doubled -- to $47 billion, the highest in New York's history, according to officials. 
 The new gap for the current fiscal year, already half over, is now $1.5 billion, despite cuts made at a special session of the Legislature in August. 
 In his remarks, Mr. Paterson emphasized that plummeting state revenues were to blame for most of the increased gap. And sure enough, the administration's estimates show that the travails of Wall Street, drops in consumer spending, and tens of thousands of expected job losses have hurt the state's bottom line, adding billons of dollars to what were already large budget gaps.
 And there are spending increases, which -- in keeping with Albany tradition -- continue to far outpace inflation. Almost every year, governors and lawmakers plan to spend more money next year.
 ''It's hard to say that there is not a revenue problem,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, the deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, a group that generally favors fiscal austerity. ''On the other hand, they knew last year that the financial picture was changing. They really built their spending on a house of cards last year.''
 During the next fiscal year, for example, state officials project a $12.5 billion budget gap. But that assumes that state spending rises by nearly 12 percent. For comparison's sake, the last time the state spending actually increased by 12 percent or more was in the fiscal year starting in 1984.
 While some of the projected increases are the result of more people participating in entitlement programs like Medicaid, others are purely a product of political decision-making. Roughly a third of next year's expected spending increase, for example, consists of increases in state education aid that are a top priority for the governor and for lawmakers of both parties. 
 In fact, since the last round of estimates in July, total projected spending for next year actually grew one percentage point. That is because the state now expects to spend $400 million out of a reserve fund to meet new contracts with labor unions. 
 By contrast, if state spending were held flat next year -- an impossibility in some categories, like debt service --the projected gap would be cut by more than half, to about $5.8 billion. If it were held flat for the next three years, that $47 billion cumulative deficit would drop down to something more like $11 billion, all else being equal. 
 According to an analysis by the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative research group, state spending increased by about 40 percent from 2004 through the current fiscal year. 
 ''If they had managed to spend at a slightly slower pace, still above inflation -- say, about 30 percent -- the total general-fund budget would now be $4 billion lower,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, the center's director.
 But numbers are tricky things. For example: zero. That's the number of new people Mr. Paterson said he would hire at state agencies in July, when, in a strongly worded memo taken as a signal of the governor's seriousness about the worsening fiscal situation, he instituted a hiring freeze. 
 According to a report on Tuesday in The Buffalo News, however, roughly 31,684 people have been added to the state payroll since the freeze was declared. The majority of them were professors and teaching assistants at the city and state university systems, which by law have control over their own staffing, while others were seasonal employees, like workers at this summer's State Fair.
 But the new employees also included veterinarians, boxing inspectors and cooks, suggesting the difficulty Mr. Paterson faces in trimming a large and complex state bureaucracy, which has about 200,000 employees -- a number that is projected to drop slightly by the end of the fiscal year.
 ''We also have to ensure, even in tough times, that we have to hire for critical positions for health and safety, such as doctors, nurses, aides, cooks,'' said Laura L. Anglin, the state budget director. ''These things keep our institutions running, make sure your roads are plowed.''
 But something has to give, Ms. Anglin and the governor both indicated on Tuesday. At an emergency legislative session he has called for next month, Mr. Paterson said, ''there will be hard and painful cuts. There is no segment of this budget that will not be cut.''
 Then again, Mr. Paterson has been warning all year that significant spending cuts would be necessary, while leaders of the State Senate and Assembly have more or less been agreeing all year. A special session in August trimmed only about $600 million.
 That is a lot for the summer of an election year; by Albany standards, it was a triumph of bipartisan leadership. And some say that is precisely the problem.
 ''Now they're getting closer to an economic forecast that is realistic,'' said Ms. Lynam. ''What hasn't been coming around is the spending.'' 
 To try to ease the pain, Mr. Paterson said that he would soon go to Washington to ask for more federal aid. That may have the side effect of delaying tough spending decisions, however, since both the governor and the Legislature will be hoping that Beltway politicians will make up some of the difference that Albany politicians have not.
 ''I don't think the Legislature will do a lot to address next year's budget gap because they'll want to wait and see what happens on the federal stimulus side,'' said James A. Parrott, the chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal policy-research group. If a lot of that comes from Washington, ''that could mean a real benefit to New York State.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HISTORY (71%); MEDICAID (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1204 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Is Health Care a Game of Statistics?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''How to Take American Health Care From Worst to First'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 24):
 Billy Beane, Newt Gingrich and John Kerry use a baseball comparison to argue for greater transparency and more use of evidence-based medicine in our health care system. It is telling that strategies for better baseball team management can indicate methods for better health care management.
 In the 21st century, baseball teams are driven less by heart and more by the almighty buck. They use algorithms in order to win and thereby make more money. 
 This mirrors a fundamental problem with health care in the United States: a primarily moral issue is now seen largely as an economic issue. Geoff Rubin 
 New York, Oct. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Billy Beane, Newt Gingrich and John Kerry completely miss the mark. 
 Is the problem with health care that we don't know what works? Please. The problem is cost and access. 
 We will never be ''first'' until all Americans have basic health care; health and malpractice insurance executives stop pocketing such a high percentage of our premiums; and we institute a system of medical-specialist juries to control the malpractice frenzy. 
 More money for evidence-based research is not the answer and is quite an irresponsible request in these precarious economic times. 
 Mary Reynolds-Gilmore 
 Northport, N.Y., Oct. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The basic premise of the Op-Ed article by Billy Beane, Newt Gingrich and John Kerry is correct -- medicine needs greater statistical analysis -- but let's not get carried away with the baseball analogy. 
 The number of variables in medical care (patient and treatment variability, co-morbid conditions) and degree of subjective interpretation (severity of illness) is far greater than in baseball. 
 It's easy to overinterpret a single number or set of numbers (for example, surgical mortality rate) without context. And while changes in baseball occur gradually, changes in medicine are continual, making statistical interpretation harder. Today's observer would recognize the game of baseball played in 1908 -- not so in medicine.
 I'm sure Mr. Beane, general manager of the Oakland Athletics, would agree that not everyone in baseball or sabermetrics agrees on the value or meaning of many new statistics. Experts sometimes come to opposite conclusions with the same data. It's the same in medicine. Cory Franklin 
 Wilmette, Ill., Oct. 24, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.
 To the Editor:
 As a geriatrician and health services researcher, I believe that establishing an institute for evidence-based medicine is a necessary but utterly insufficient step to ''take American medicine from worst to first.''
 The evidence base for most interventions in medicine is lacking, especially so in the area of how to deliver quality care to the most costly patients, the elderly with multiple chronic conditions.
 Improvements in the evidence will be ineffective if they come in the absence of health care payment reform that obliterates the perverse incentives that favor specialty care and gizmo idolatry over diligent primary care and care coordination. 
 A vast overhaul of medical education must be aligned with any reforms to achieve success. Bruce Leff
 Baltimore, Oct. 24, 2008
 The writer is an associate professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 A physician providing care is a bridge between two of the most complex and dynamic systems in the world: the patient and the American health care system. 
 True, evidence-based medicine is underused, and making it more accessible to physicians makes sense. 
 I practice in a health network that has had much success integrating information technology. This enables me to access evidence-based recommendations during patient encounters. But making the transition away from paper medical records was neither easy nor cheap. 
 As policy makers, John Kerry and Newt Gingrich should realize that today's major health crises -- tobacco-related illnesses, obesity and the medically uninsured -- are social and economic burdens that doctors alone can not be expected to address. 
 J. Howard DeHoff
 Allentown, Pa., Oct. 24, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.
 To the Editor:
 It is gratifying that a Republican, Newt Gingrich, admits that our health care system is not working. But simply relying on statistics is not going to change it very much. 
 What needs to happen is that we have a universal health care program for all Americans. Nothing else will do.
 Two weeks ago (I'm 73 and enrolled in Medicare), I went to my eye doctor with the problem of a shadow outside my eye. After a brief examination, I was told I had a torn retina. Within an hour I was in a eye surgeon's chair being operated on to repair the retina. 
 I saw two doctors, their receptionists took my Medicare and supplemental policy information, and without any further comment I was successfully operated on. Money was never mentioned. I will receive no bills for surgery. I had no fears of being hit with unexpected medical costs, especially at a time like this. 
 When I left the doctor's office, I thought to myself that this is the way it should be. No American should have to suffer medically and then also suffer financially. This is what we should be about. Medicare works and is beautiful.
 Stanley R. Bermann 
 Santa Fe, N.M., Oct. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); BASEBALL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WRITERS (73%); GERIATRICS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (71%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (66%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1205 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Win or Lose, Many See Palin as Future of Party

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
Whether the Republican presidential ticket wins or loses on Tuesday, a group of prominent conservatives are planning to meet the next day to discuss the way forward, and whatever the outcome, Gov. Sarah Palin will be high on the agenda.
 Ms. Palin, of Alaska, has had a rocky time since being named as Senator John McCain's running mate, but to many conservatives her future remains bright. If Mr. McCain wins, she will give the social conservative movement a seat inside the White House. If he loses, she could emerge as a standard bearer for the movement and a potential presidential candidate in 2012, albeit one who will need to address her considerable political damage. 
 Her prospects, in or out of government, are the subject of intensive conversations among conservative leaders, including the group that will meet next Wednesday in rural Virginia to weigh social, foreign policy and economic issues, as well as the political landscape and the next presidential election. 
 Ms. Palin's aides insist that winning this time around is her sole objective. But there are signs that she, too, is making sure that she is well positioned for the future if she and Mr. McCain lose. 
 In a week that most candidates give over to big rallies and closing arguments, she is giving policy speeches, like one on Wednesday on energy security, a move aides say is intended to help her be seen as more substantive. 
 On Monday, she held a brief meeting with the Israeli ambassador, reflecting an interest that aides say she expresses in intense foreign policy tutorials. She has increasingly separated herself from Mr. McCain's positions, and this week tried to quarantine herself from the damage caused by news that the Republican National Committee had spent $150,000 on clothing and accessories for her and her family. 
 More and more, she has broken out of the cloister imposed early on by McCain aides, doing more interviews with local television stations and newspapers, and speaking off the cuff to reporters who travel with her.
 Despite all the criticism, she has many supporters among Republicans who see her as bright, tough and a star in a party with relatively few on the horizon. 
 ''She's dynamite,'' said Morton C. Blackwell, who was President Ronald Reagan's liaison to the conservative movement. Mr. Blackwell described vying to get close to Ms. Palin at a fund-raiser in Virginia, lamenting that he could get only within four feet.
 ''I made a major effort to position myself at this reception,'' he said, adding that he is eager to sit down with her after the election to discuss the future. Asked if the weeks of unflattering revelations and damaging interviews had tarnished her among conservatives, he replied, ''Not a bit.''
 Brent Bozell, president of the Media Research Center, a conservative group, called it a ''top order of business'' to determine Ms. Palin's future role. ''Conservatives have been looking for leadership, and she has proven that she can electrify the grass roots like few people have in the last 20 years,'' Mr. Bozell said. ''No matter what she decides to do, there will be a small mother lode of financial support behind her.''
 The presidential campaign has allowed Ms. Palin to develop as a candidate, and to make many useful connections as she travels the country. On the campaign, she has become close to people with extensive experience in Republican politics, including Steve Biegun and Randy Scheunemann, two foreign policy conservatives. 
 She has received extensive policy tutorials and been briefed on foreign policy almost daily. Aides say she has taken particular interest in Pakistan and Israel and in causes of Islamic extremism, which she has related to the economic despair that plagues parts of Alaska.
 People loyal to her say Ms. Palin is well aware of the political job in front of her. One aide said she had ''gotten on the offensive,'' pushing to include more policy in her speeches. ''It's important for her personally, for how she's perceived, to ensure that she gets to show her depth.''
 In a development that could be telling whether or not she ends up as vice president, she has also been asserting her independence from the McCain campaign. She disagreed publicly with the decision to pull out of Michigan and questioned the use of automated calls and the decision not to bring up Senator Barack Obama's relationship with his controversial former pastor. She said she would release her medical records after the campaign declared she would not, and has in the past week even wandered over to talk to reporters who travel with her, sending staff members scurrying to cut off conversations.
 Ms. Palin's rallies have drawn many times more supporters than Mr. McCain's, with people waving eager signs: ''Palin Power,'' ''Iowa is Palin Country,'' ''Super Sarah,'' ''You betcha!''
 Matthew Dowd, a former Bush strategist, said Ms. Palin's challenge was to show substance.
 ''She's an attractive woman who can give a great speech, but the American public doesn't view her much beyond that,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''She's vastly unpopular among moderate and independent voters, and while she could be in a position to be popular among an increasingly smaller Republican Party, she's got to figure out a way to extend that and figure out a way to strengthen her weaknesses.''
 And should she not become vice president, Ms. Palin will have to navigate a changed landscape in Alaska, a task Les Gara, a Democratic state representative, said could prove to be ''a rocky road.'' Revelations that she charged the state an expense allowance (generally collected for travel away from home) while staying at her home and for her children to travel with her, and about the clothing, have dragged down her public image and her poll numbers.
 And some Democrats who in the past saw Ms. Palin as someone willing to buck her own party say they have been put off by her partisan attacks as part of the national ticket. 
 At times, Ms. Palin's family and friends have seemed shaken by the attention. Her sister, Heather Bruce, described recent months as ''the most stressful period of my life,'' and her father, Chuck Heath, said he felt pure outrage when he saw spoofs involving his grandchildren. 
 But some elements of the Republican base are already looking ahead to the day, whenever it comes, that Ms. Palin is at the top of the ticket.
 ''I would hope she would consider running for president,'' said Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, which raises money for candidates who oppose abortion. 
 The group's donations increased threefold, she said, after Ms. Palin was named to the ticket, and a ''Team Sarah'' conference call last week among voters who oppose abortion attracted 40,000 women. The group is planning a similar event after the election whether or not the Republicans win the White House.
 ''We have to get concrete about where we take this energy from here,'' Ms. Dannenfelser said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin greeting Republican supporters on Tuesday morning at a rally in Hershey, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (50%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1206 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Sleepless in Tehran

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I've always been dubious about Barack Obama's offer to negotiate with Iran -- not because I didn't believe that it was the right strategy, but because I didn't believe we had enough leverage to succeed. And negotiating in the Middle East without leverage is like playing baseball without a bat.
 Well, if Obama does win the presidency, my gut tells me that he's going to get a chance to negotiate with the Iranians -- with a bat in his hand. 
 Have you seen the reports that Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is suffering from exhaustion? It's probably because he is not sleeping at night. I know why. Watching oil prices fall from $147 a barrel to $57 is not like counting sheep. It's the kind of thing that gives an Iranian autocrat bad dreams.
 After all, it was the collapse of global oil prices in the early 1990s that brought down the Soviet Union. And Iran today is looking very Soviet to me.
 As Vladimir Mau, president of Russia's Academy of National Economy, pointed out to me, it was the long period of high oil prices followed by sharply lower oil prices that killed the Soviet Union. The spike in oil prices in the 1970s deluded the Kremlin into overextending subsidies at home and invading Afghanistan abroad -- and then the collapse in prices in the '80s helped bring down that overextended empire. 
 (Incidentally, this was exactly what happened to the shah of Iran: 1) Sudden surge in oil prices. 2) Delusions of grandeur. 3) Sudden contraction of oil prices. 4) Dramatic downfall. 5) You're toast.)
 Under Ahmadinejad, Iran's mullahs have gone on a domestic subsidy binge -- using oil money to cushion the prices of food, gasoline, mortgages and to create jobs -- to buy off the Iranian people. But the one thing Ahmadinejad couldn't buy was real economic growth. Iran today has 30 percent inflation, 11 percent unemployment and huge underemployment with thousands of young college grads, engineers and architects selling pizzas and driving taxis. And now with oil prices falling, Iran -- just like the Soviet Union -- is going to have to pull back spending across the board. Fasten your seat belts.
 The U.N. has imposed three rounds of sanctions against Iran since Ahmadinejad took office in 2005 because of Iran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment. But high oil prices minimized those sanctions; collapsing oil prices will now magnify those sanctions. If prices stay low, there is a good chance Iran will be open to negotiating over its nuclear program with the next U.S. president. 
 That is a good thing because Iran also funds Hezbollah, Hamas, Syria and the anti-U.S. Shiites in Iraq. If America wants to get out of Iraq and leave behind a decent outcome, plus break the deadlocks in Lebanon and Israel-Palestine, it needs to end the cold war with Iran. Possible? I don't know, but the collapse of oil prices should give us a shot.
 But let's use our leverage smartly and not exaggerate Iran's strength. Just as I believe that we should drop the reward for the capture of Osama bin Laden -- from $50 million to one penny, plus an autographed picture of Dick Cheney -- we need to deflate the Iranian mullahs as well. Let them chase us.
 Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, compares it to bargaining for a Persian carpet in Tehran. ''When you go inside the carpet shop, the first thing you are supposed to do is feign disinterest,'' he explains. ''The last thing you want to suggest is 'We are not leaving without that carpet.' 'Well,' the dealer will say, 'if you feel so strongly about it ...' '' 
 The other lesson from the carpet bazaar, says Sadjadpour, ''is that there is never a price tag on any carpet. The dealer is not looking for a fixed price, but the highest price he can get -- and the Iran price is constantly fluctuating depending on the price of oil.'' Let's now use that to our advantage.
 Barack Hussein Obama would present another challenge for Iran's mullahs. Their whole rationale for being is that they are resisting a hegemonic American power that wants to keep everyone down. Suddenly, next week, Iranians may look up and see that the country their leaders call ''The Great Satan'' has just elected ''a guy whose middle name is the central figure in Shiite Islam -- Hussein -- and whose last name -- Obama -- when transliterated into Farsi, means 'He is with us,' '' said Sadjadpour.
 Iran is ripe for deflating. Its power was inflated by the price of oil and the popularity of its leader, who was cheered simply because he was willing to poke America with a stick. But as a real nation-building enterprise, the Islamic Revolution in Iran has been an abject failure.
 ''When you ask young Arabs which leaders in the region they most admire,'' said Sadjadpour, they will usually answer the leaders of Hamas, Hezbollah and Iran. ''When you ask them where in the Middle East would you most like to live,'' he added, ''the answer is usually socially open places like Dubai or Beirut. The Islamic Republic of Iran is never in the top 10.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BASEBALL (71%); FOOD PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); HEZBOLLAH (60%); HAMAS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1207 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: British Leader Calls for Larger I.M.F. Bailout Fund

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain called Tuesday for China and the Persian Gulf states to put up more money to help the International Monetary Fund deal with the fallout of the credit crisis. 
 The appeal of Mr. Brown grabbed the spotlight ahead of a meeting on Tuesday with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who called the proposal interesting and vowed to work ''hand in hand'' with the British leader -- just as they had on a coordinated rescue plan for European banks. Mr. Sarkozy said he also believed that the fund needed ''additional means'' to help ailing economies. 
 ''Our first priority at the moment is to stop the contagion to other countries, including in Eastern Europe where there are problems emerging,'' Mr. Brown said before the meeting with Mr. Sarkozy in Versailles, southwest of Paris. 
 The talks were arranged to prepare the European Union's position ahead of a 20-nation summit meeting on Nov. 15 in Washington, which is intended to explore ways to reorder the global financial system. Mr. Sarkozy holds the rotating presidency of the 27-member European Union.
 Mr. Brown's appeal to resource-rich emerging economies to help pay for bailout plans highlights how stretched the Group of 7 industrialized countries have become in dealing with the global economic rout. 
 It also laid the groundwork for the type of grand bargain that might emerge at the November meeting: in return for a greater voice in an overhauled financial architecture, large developing countries will be asked to make a greater contribution. 
 The British leader, whose bank recapitalization plan has become a blueprint for the European Union and the United States, said the I.M.F. needed a fund ''substantially'' larger than the current pool of $250 billion earmarked for nations in difficulty. In the last month, several countries have appealed for emergency help, including Iceland, Hungary, Ukraine and Belarus. 
 ''There are lessons to be learned from what happened in the subprime market,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We need to learn the lesson quickly. We will be looking at how we will reform the international financial system.'' 
 Earlier Tuesday, in London, Mr. Brown said it was urgent to set up the I.M.F. bailout fund ''as quickly as possible.'' 
 It will have to be ''the countries that have got substantial reserves, the oil-rich countries and others, who are going to be the biggest contributors to this fund,'' he said. 
 ''China also has very substantial reserves,'' he added. ''There are a number of countries that actually can do quite a lot in the immediate future to make sure that the international community has sufficient resources to support countries that get themselves into difficulties.'' 
 In an effort to sell his idea, Mr. Brown will travel to the Persian Gulf region Saturday and confer with the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, by telephone. 
 Analysts warned that some of the countries cited as potential contributors might be more fragile than it appeared. 
 While China's banks are less exposed to the subprime United States mortgage assets that have caused problems elsewhere, the country's export-driven economy is vulnerable to falling demand in Western markets. Middle Eastern countries, meanwhile, are concerned that the recent slump in energy prices will deprive them of significant revenue in the months to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (88%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (88%); ICELAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELARUS (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1208 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BP Projects Confidence After Posting an 83% Rise in Profit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The energy giant BP said Tuesday that it expected to cope reasonably well with the volatility in oil prices as it reported a third consecutive quarter of earnings that beat analysts' estimates.
 BP said profit rose 83 percent, to $8.05 billion, or 42.56 cents a share, from $4.41 billion, or 23.07 cents a share, in the third quarter a year ago. Shares rose 5.4 percent in London on Tuesday after the chief executive, Anthony B. Hayward, reiterated plans to increase the dividend and dismissed concerns that a drop in crude oil prices would reverse BP's profit growth.
 When energy companies were profiting from record oil prices, BP, Shell, Chevron and Exxon Mobil continuously trumpeted their earnings growth. But oil prices have fallen 57 percent since the peak in July and could drop more as a slowing economy damps demand. Investor concern about the sustainability of oil companies' profits meant that their shares started to decline alongside the oil price. BP's stock dropped 20 percent and Chevron's 17 percent in the third quarter. 
 ''BP is well positioned to cope with such volatility,'' Mr. Hayward said in a statement. ''Our balance sheet is strong, and we have committed less of our portfolio to high-cost options like tar sands and gas conversion than some of our peers.''
 Mr. Hayward acknowledged that oil prices could drop further, but he said that the current market turmoil ''may in fact create opportunities for us and we will look at those very closely.''
 BP already agreed to buy $1.9 billion of natural gas assets in Arkansas last month and spent $1.75 billion on part of Oklahoma's Woodford Shale formation in July. BP expects that the recovery of its refining business will create a cushion against a downturn. Profit in refining and marketing rose to $1.97 billion, from $371 million, while operating profit from exploration and production doubled to $12.7 billion. 
 Mr. Hayward pledged to continue to reduce costs, streamline the business and increase production through existing projects as well as exploration. 
 Oil ministers at the Oil and Money conference in London on Tuesday were less optimistic. Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, the Qatari oil minister, warned that the shortage of financing for new projects could threaten the ability to meet future demand. ''A lot of projects now are being postponed or don't get built,'' Mr. Attiyah said. 
 An oil price of $70 to $80 a barrel would be ''fair'' to assure investments in production projects, Mr. Attiyah said.
 Mohammed bin Dhaen al-Hamli, energy minister of the United Arab Emirates, said the recent decline in oil price meant that companies would have to rethink some projects, including Canadian tar sands, that were economically viable when prices were above $100 a barrel. 
 But not everyone agreed that the oil industry needed to focus on the immediate problem of how to cope with a lower oil price. Nobuo Tanaka, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said the biggest challenge was the uncertainty and the volatility of the market. 
 ''If we look at consumption in the longer term, we can make much better forecasts and presumptions,'' Mr. Tanaka said. ''There is a lot of anecdotal evidence that demand is slowing but we haven't seen it in the real figures yet.''
 Christof Ruhl, BP's chief economist, agreed that even though demand from China and other developing economies might slow in the short term, it would continue to be strong in the long term. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1209 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Cools as Campaign Issue

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
On the stump, Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain rarely talk about immigration, and it was never raised in their three debates.
 Yet as this thorny issue has receded from the presidential campaign, the two candidates continue to refine their approach to it -- especially in regards to illegal immigration, the most politically sensitive piece of the equation. 
 Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, has hardened his tone on how to deal with illegal immigrants, while Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, has made immigration enforcement a priority, a position in line with the Bush administration's. Both candidates are responding to the anger many Americans feel about uncontrolled illegal immigration, including working-class voters whom Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are trying to attract in the final days of the campaign. 
 Because of persisting political rifts and a crush of priorities related to reviving the economy and unwinding the Iraq war, advisers to the campaigns say it is increasingly unlikely that either candidate would propose to Congress an overhaul of the immigration system during the first year in office, something both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama had pledged to do.
 On the assumption that immigration legislation ''is not likely to be the first thing out of the box'' for the new president, Doris Meissner, who was commissioner of the immigration service under President Bill Clinton, said she was working with a bipartisan group of experts to identify changes that the new president could make without Congress. 
 ''The reforms we need to put in place are so sweeping and the political environment is so hostile to consensus, I think we will be in a phase of longer-term building of public understanding,'' said Ms. Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research group in Washington. 
 Both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain continue to support legislation that would include a path to legal status for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country.
 As a result, groups that oppose legal status for illegal immigrants, who mobilized a wildfire movement of largely Republican voters against a comprehensive immigration bill last year, are sitting out the presidential race. Instead, they are focusing on Senate and House races, where they hope to stop the Democrats from winning large majorities. 
 ''We're going to have an incredibly bad White House, so we're in for some tough defensive battles,'' said Roy Beck, president of NumbersUSA, which favors reduced immigration. ''We have to make sure we've got at least 41 senators so we can block any Obama or McCain amnesty.''
 Seeking to broaden support for legalization, Mr. Obama embraces new law-and-order language adopted in the Democratic Party platform at the convention. Although Americans are ''welcoming and generous,'' the platform states, ''those who enter our country's borders illegally, and those who employ them, disrespect the rule of law.'' Instead of the Democrats' emphasis, as recently as last year, on integrating illegal immigrants into society, the platform says, ''We must require them to come out of the shadows and get right with the law.''
 Heather Higginbottom, the Obama campaign's director for policy, said Mr. Obama had not altered his basic views. If elected, Mr. Obama would insist that illegal immigrants pay back taxes and fines, learn English and go to the back of the immigration line to become legal.
 For Mr. McCain, there has been a sharper turn from the past. He was unable to stop the Republican Party from adopting a platform at the September convention that directly rejected his support for legalization. ''We oppose amnesty,'' the platform states, describing ''the American people's rejection of en masse legalizations'' as ''especially appropriate.''
 Some Republicans have not forgiven Mr. McCain for joining Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to write a bill, known as comprehensive immigration reform, which passed the Senate in 2006. Mr. McCain stayed on the sidelines last year as a version of that bill stalled in Congress. Then, under pressure from rivals in the Republican primaries, Mr. McCain said early this year that he would not vote for that bill if it came up again. 
 He has supported the Bush administration's aggressive enforcement campaign against illegal immigration, calling it a necessary first step to persuading Americans to accept any legalization program. In recent weeks his campaign has avoided the term ''path to citizenship'' to describe the option Mr. McCain would offer illegal immigrants, saying only that he would deal with them in a humane way. 
 The McCain campaign is hoping that his differences with the Republican Party will help to reinforce his image as a maverick, especially among Hispanic voters. One of his television advertisements in Spanish shows Mr. McCain speaking of illegal immigrants as ''God's children,'' as Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, the Republicans' most outspoken foe of illegal immigrants, looks on, scowling. 
 ''Senator McCain risked his own political career to get a bill in the Senate that would benefit Latinos,'' said Cesar Martinez, a producer of the McCain advertisements in Spanish.
 Obama supporters say they do not mind his campaign's silences, since they are confident he remains committed to an overhaul including legalization, and debate has often proved polarizing. 
 ''We feel very comfortable with where he stands,'' said Eliseo Medina, international executive vice president of the Service Employees International Union, who has been barnstorming for Mr. Obama. ''We do not have to have it repeated to us over and over again.''
 Ms. Higginbottom, the Obama policy adviser, acknowledged that high unemployment in coming months could make an immigration overhaul a harder sell but said Mr. Obama would argue that American workers would benefit if millions of unauthorized immigrant workers, currently vulnerable to exploitation, gained their labor rights. 
 While the candidates have skirted the immigration issue in speeches and town-hall-style- meetings, they are clashing head on over it in the Spanish language media, in negative advertisements that have played heavily in swing states with growing numbers of Hispanic voters like Colorado, Florida, Nevada and New Mexico. 
 In those advertisements, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama each tries to show that the other was less consistent in supporting legislation to change the system, including provisions to legalize illegal immigrants.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Political Tightrope: Some battleground states have high proportions of Hispanic voters, others have high numbers of blue-collar workers. Hoping to draw support from Hispanics without alienating white workingclass voters, both presidential candidates have played down their immigration views.(Sources: Immigration Policy Center
 Census) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1210 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Are Stocks The Bargain You Think?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Some of the country's most famous investors, including Warren Buffett and John Bogle, have started to make the case that it's time to dive back into the stock market. 
 They are usually careful to add that they don't know what stocks will do in the short term. Yet their basic message is clear enough: stocks are now cheap, irrational fears have been driving the market down lately, and people who buy today will be glad that they did. 
 After a day like Tuesday, when the market rose 11 percent, it's easy to see the merits of the argument. 
 But there is another argument that deserves more attention than it has gotten so far. It's the bearish argument that is based neither on fears that the country may be sliding into another depression nor on gut-level worries about the unknown. It is based on numbers and history, and it has at least as much claim on reason as the bullish argument does. 
 It goes something like this: Stocks are truly cheap only relative to their values over the last 20 years, a period that will go down as one of the great bubbles in history. If you take a longer view, you see that the ratio of stock prices to corporate earnings is only slightly below its long-term average. And in past economic crises -- during the 1930s and 1970s -- stocks fell well below their long-run average before they turned around.
 To make matters worse, corporate earnings have now started to plunge, too. Assuming that they keep dropping, stocks would also need to fall to keep the price-earnings ratio at its current level. 
 As stocks were soaring on Tuesday afternoon, I called James Melcher to hear a dose of fact-based bearishness. Mr. Melcher is president of Balestra Capital, a hedge fund in New York, who wrote an essay for his clients two years ago that predicted the broad outlines of the financial crisis (and then arranged Balesta's portfolio accordingly). Like the bulls, he said that no one could know what the market would do in the short term. ''But to think stocks are cheap now,'' he added, ''is not rational.''
 He went on: ''In the last 20 years -- and particularly in the last six or seven -- you had the most massive creation of liquidity the world has ever known.'' Consumers went ever deeper into debt, thanks to loose lending standards, and a shadow banking system, made up of hedge funds and investment banks, allowed Wall Street to do the same. All that debt lifted economic growth and stock returns.
 ''It was a nice party,'' Mr. Melcher said. ''The problem is that all the bills are coming due at the same time.'' He thinks stocks could easily fall an additional 20 percent and maybe 35 percent before hitting bottom.
 So who's right -- the bears or the bulls? The smartest people in both camps, like Mr. Melcher, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Bogle, have a healthy dose of humility about their own conclusions. And when you dig into their arguments, you find that they're not quite as different as they first sound. But they are different, and it's worth taking a minute to consider the numbers. 
 There are any number of ways to measure the valuation of the stock market. Some examine prices relative to earnings, others are based on cash flow, a company's underlying assets or the total value of the market. But they tell a pretty consistent story right now. Stocks, which were fabulously expensive for much of the 1990s and this decade, no longer are.
 My favorite measure is the one recommended by Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd, in their classic 1934 textbook, ''Security Analysis.'' They urged investors to use a price-to-earnings ratio -- stock prices divided by average annual corporate earnings -- based on at least five years of earnings and, ideally, closer to 10. Corporate profits may rise or fall in any given year, but a share of stock is a claim on a company's long-term earnings and should be evaluated as such. 
 (Why not use a forecast of future earnings? Because they tend toward the fictional, as we're now seeing once again.)
 The 10-year price-to-earnings ratio tells an incredibly consistent story over the last century. It has averaged about 16 over that time. There have been long periods when it stayed above 16 and even shot above 20, like the 1920s, 1960s and recent years. As recently as last October, when other measures suggested the market was reasonably valued, the Graham-Dodd version of the ratio was a disturbing 27. But periods in which the ratio has jumped above 20 have always been followed by steep declines and at least a decade of poor returns.
 By 1932, the ratio had fallen to 6. In 1982, it was only 7. Then, of course, the market began to self-correct in the other direction, and stocks took off. 
 After Tuesday's big rally, the ratio was just a shade below 16, or almost equal to its long-run average. This is a little difficult to swallow, I realize. Stocks are down 40 percent since last October, and every experience from the last 25 years suggests they now have to bounce back. 
 But that's precisely the problem. Since the 1980s, stocks have always bounced back from a loss, usually reaching a high in relatively short order. As a result, the market became enormously overvalued. 
 As Robert Shiller, the economist who specializes in bubbles, points out, human beings tend to put too much weight on recent experiences. We think the market snapbacks of 1987 and the current decade are more meaningful and more predictive than the long slumps of the 1930s, 1940s and 1970s. Of course, anyone who made the same assumption in 1930 or 1975 -- this just has to turn around soon -- would have had to wait years and years until the investment paid off. 
 Now, Mr. Buffett, Mr. Bogle and their fellow bulls know all this history, and they're still bullish. (Though I'd be more bullish, too, if I could get the favorable terms that Mr. Buffett did. In exchange for his money and his good name, Goldman Sachs and General Electric each guaranteed him an annual return of at least 10 percent.) 
 So on Tuesday afternoon, I also called Mr. Bogle, the legendary founder of the Vanguard Group, the investment firm whose low-cost index funds have made a lot for a lot of people. 
 He, too, prefers the 10-year price-to-earnings ratio, he said, but he didn't think that it necessarily had to fall to the same bargain-basement levels it reached in the 1930s and 1970s. 
 You can certainly see why that would be the case. Investors are well aware that the market fell to irrationally low levels during past crises, and they may not allow it to become so cheap this time around. 
 Mr. Bogle also thinks that corporate profits will rebound nicely within a couple of years and likes the fact that interest rates are low. Low rates have often -- though not always -- accompanied bull markets. 
 But it was his last argument that I think is the main one for most investors to focus on. ''I'm not looking for a great bull market,'' he said. There are some reasons to be optimistic about stocks, he said, ''and I also look at the alternative.''
 And, really, how attractive are the alternatives? Savings accounts and money market funds will struggle to keep pace with inflation. Bonds may, as well. 
 Stocks, on the other hand, are paying an average dividend of about 3 percent, which is better than the interest on many savings accounts, and stocks are also almost certain to rise over the next couple of decades.
 If that is your time frame -- decades, rather than months or years -- this will probably turn out to be a perfectly good buying opportunity. In the shorter term, though, it's a much tougher call, and it involves a lot more risk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Bogle, left, and Warren Buffett say now is the time to buy. Mr. Bogle expects corporate profits to rebound in a couple of years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS)(pg. B7) CHART: Bargain, but Not Basement: Stocks have fallen sharply . . .
But earnings are now falling, too . . .
 And, by historic standards, stocks are still not very cheap.(Sources: Standard & Poor's, Robert Shiller) Charts detail line graphs. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1211 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Time Inc. Has Plans To Lay Off 600 Workers

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; David Carr contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Time Inc., the world's largest magazine publisher, plans to cut 6 percent of its work force -- more than 600 positions -- and will revamp the organization in a way that could radically alter the culture at the company.
 The company outlined the overhaul on Tuesday evening in a memorandum to employees after The New York Times revealed the cuts on its Web site. The layoffs will begin in about two weeks. 
 No magazines are scheduled to close, but some are likely to be severely cut back. Ann S. Moore, Time Inc.'s chairman and chief executive, was already planning an overhaul because of the upheavals in print media, but she was forced to speed up those efforts amid the financial crisis and looming recession.
 Time Inc.'s 24 magazines in the United States and their Web sites will be organized into three divisions: news, which will include Fortune, Money, Time and Sports Illustrated; lifestyle titles, which include Real Simple, Cottage Living, Coastal Living and Southern Living, among others; and style and entertainment, which includes People, InStyle and Entertainment Weekly, which has suffered a severe downturn and is likely to be whittled down under the new structure.
 Heads of the news and entertainment units will continue to report to John Huey, the editor in chief of Time Inc. The lifestyle unit, which may be run by Bill Shapiro, who has been development editor, will report to the business side of the company. Martha Nelson, who is editor of the People Group, will head the entertainment division. 
 Ms. Moore declined to be interviewed, but in an article published in The Times of London a little more than two weeks ago she said, ''I don't know if there will be layoffs.''
 The company, a division of Time Warner, the media conglomerate that includes CNN, Turner Broadcasting, HBO, AOL and the Warner Brothers movie studio, is facing the twin perils of a shifting landscape from a severe downturn and a loss of readers and advertisers to the Web.
 Time Warner is scheduled to report quarterly earnings on Nov. 5, and will announce how much savings it expects to wring from Time Inc. It may take a charge to its earnings to account for the revamping.
 Within Time Warner, where Jeffrey L. Bewkes is nearing his one-year anniversary as chief executive, Time Inc., while profitable, has been a lag on growth. In a conference call with Wall Street analysts in August, Mr. Bewkes said both AOL and Time Inc. ''are tracking behind our expectations this year.''
 Executives said the reorganization was intended partly to allow Time Inc. to focus on its big brands -- publications like Sports Illustrated, People, Time and Fortune -- on platforms other than print. Examples executives cited were Sports Illustrated-branded kiosks that are popping up in airports and a music festival that was put on by Essence.
 Power within Time Inc., which through many mergers over the decades became the modern Time Warner, has long been diffuse, with individual publishers and editors essentially running their own shows. That distinct culture is coming to an end. 
 Dawn Bridges, senior vice president for corporate communications at Time Inc., said that, in the future, ''we'll have a more centralized management structure that will group together titles that share similar audiences, advertisers and the talents and skills of their staffs.'' 
 The changes will lead to more sharing of writers between magazines within each new division, examples which have already been seen, including a cover story in Time in late September that was written by Andy Serwer, Fortune's managing editor, and Allan Sloan, a columnist at Fortune. 
 Even after previous cuts, the company still has 10,200 employees globally, with about 7,000 in the United States. (In addition to its well-known American publications, Time Inc. owns nearly 100 magazines abroad.)
 None of this has been enough to fight off the changes roiling the media industry. When Time Warner last reported earnings -- on Aug. 6, for the second quarter that ended June 30 -- it reported a 6 percent, or $77 million, decline in revenue at Time Inc. to $1.2 billion. Operating income was $218 million, down 15 percent.
 In a separate announcement Tuesday, Time Inc. sent a memorandum to employees saying that Edward R. McCarrick, a 35-year veteran, would retire at the end of the year as worldwide publisher for Time magazine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Huey is the editor in chief of Time Inc.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ann S. Moore is Time Inc.'s chairman and chief executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN HILGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 The style unit would include Entertainment Weekly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WEB SITES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); FESTIVALS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); TIME WARNER INC (85%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%)

PERSON: ANN MOORE (92%); JEFF BEWKES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1212 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: With Time Running Short, Campaigns Engage in a Noisy Air War

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: NORFOLK, Va. 

 BODY:
The campaigns of Senators Barack Obama and John McCain are making their last-ditch advertising pitches in a loud, televised shouting match over health care and taxes, terrorism and presidential readiness, trying to sway the few remaining undecided voters or to push wavering supporters to the polls on Tuesday.
 Mr. McCain and the Republican Party are ending their advertising campaign with a blistering run of commercials that use images of tanks, Islamic extremists, and stormy seas to paint Mr. Obama as a risky choice in dangerous times. 
 In a bid to win over undecided ''security moms'' who watch programs like ''The View'' and ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' one of Mr. McCain's most widely shown commercials this week features recent comments from Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Obama's running mate, warning of ''an international crisis'' that will ''test the mettle of this guy'' (namely, Mr. Obama). 
 The commercials are part of an insurgent advertising campaign by Mr. McCain, who has redirected dwindling resources to vital parts of critical states like this one, surgically picking spots to confront an unprecedented television onslaught by Mr. Obama that dwarfs Mr. McCain's effort almost everywhere else. 
 Mr. McCain has had help recently from the independent advertising unit of the Republican National Committee, which embarked upon a $26 million campaign in the final weeks of the election, including efforts to buttress Mr. McCain in reliably Republican states like West Virginia and Montana. 
 But even with that help, Mr. McCain is in many ways shouting into the roar of a locomotive. The nearly $21 million that Mr. Obama spent on advertisements last week was nearly twice what Mr. McCain and the Republican party had spent in the same period. 
 Mr. Obama, with virtually limitless resources, is ending his advertising campaign with a dizzying array of commercials striking mostly economic arguments: A spot running heavily here promotes Mr. Obama's tax cuts (''A nurse earning 60 grand?'' an announcer says, ''You get a thousand bucks under Obama -- under McCain, just $150''); spots in Colorado and Pennsylvania accuse Mr. McCain of helping companies that ''ship jobs overseas,'' and a commercial running heavily in retiree-rich Florida, falsely accuses Mr. McCain of proposing large cuts to Medicare.
 Mr. Obama will further flex his advertising muscle on Wednesday with a half-hour infomercial in prime time on four broadcast networks: Fox, NBC, CBS and Univision. In the program, some of which was reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Obama speaks directly to the camera at times while sharing the stories of families struggling in the current economy.
 Unable to match the Obama juggernaut, Mr. McCain is making a last stand in towns he needs to win, like this one, where he and the Republican National Committee have combined resources to advertise as heavily as Mr. Obama, who has not needed similar help from his party. The situation is similar in Cincinnati; Harrisburg, Pa.; and Richmond, Va., which are among the places where Mr. McCain has tried to match Mr. Obama. 
 There have been consequences for Mr. McCain, who has had to reduce his advertising in swing states like New Hampshire and Wisconsin so he can advertise in states he must win, like Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia. 
 Analysts say he has little choice. ''If you're the McCain campaign, there are two columns right now in your thinking: places you have to win and places you need to win,'' said Evan Tracey, the chief operative officer of CMAG, a company that monitors political advertising. Translating that into laymen's terms, Mr. Tracey said, ''You don't have to eat, but you need to breathe.''
 ''There's no White House without Virginia,'' he said. ''So it doesn't matter what happens in Wisconsin or New Hampshire if he doesn't win there.''
 And so, while the advertising war can feel awfully lopsided for Mr. Obama in the most expensive cities to advertise in, like Miami, Philadelphia and Washington (which reaches Northern Virginia), viewers in Cincinnati, Harrisburg and here in Norfolk are in the middle of a full-scale, spot-for-spot advertising war. 
 The battle starts with the big morning news programs, runs through ''The Young and the Restless,'' ''The View'' and ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' ''Jeopardy'' and ''Wheel of Fortune,'' the late local news and, finally, ''Late Show With David Letterman'' and ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno.''
 Senior strategists in both campaigns said in interviews this week that they had identified women, specifically the so-called ''security moms'' who are worried about national defense, as a crucial part of the undecided vote.
 That both campaigns have tried hard to reach them this year is underscored by the list of their top shows compiled by the University of Wisconsin Advertising Project: ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' is the top, non-news program for the advertising of both campaigns, followed by programs like ''Regis & Kelly,'' ''Rachel Ray'' (one of the few programs that has included more advertisements from Mr. McCain than from Mr. Obama) and ''The View.''
 On Tuesday, just before ''The View'' began here, Mr. McCain showed a spot featuring Mr. Biden's quotation from a recent fund-raiser, ''Mark my words, it will not be six months before the world tests Barack Obama.'' 
 As Mr. Biden speaks, the spot plays ominous music and shows threatening images of the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad; the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez; and Islamic extremists in black arm bands holding machine guns and marching. 
 The advertisement is in line with two being run by the Republican National Committee: One shows the presidential chair in the Oval Office as an announcer says, ''Barack Obama: He hasn't had executive experience, this crisis would be Obama's first crisis, in this chair.'' The other shows a storm-swept sea as an announcer says, ''Some now say this storm cannot get worse, our nation is so off course that Barack Obama's quick rise to power and inexperience should not matter. But what if the storm does get worse, with someone who's untested at the helm?''
 Speaking of that line of attack, Brad Todd, who is running the Republican Party effort, said, ''We have settled in on that difference.''
 But, in an example of how Mr. Obama's resources have allowed him to meet every charge, just before ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' began, his campaign responded with a commercial in which a narrator said, ''John McCain's playing with audiotapes, selectively editing Joe Biden's words.'' The spot goes on to include the rest of Mr. Biden's quote: ''They're going to find out this guy's got a spine of steel.'' 
 Similarly, throughout the day, local stations here featured a McCain advertisement with various voters saying, ''I am Joe,'' a reference to Mr. Obama's recent conversation with ''Joe the Plumber,'' in which Mr. Obama said his tax plan would help ''spread the wealth.''
 ''Obama wants my sweat to pay for his trillion dollars in new spending?'' one of the characters asks in the advertisement.
 But that spot is up against one from Mr. Obama showing his Web site's tax-cut calculator and the savings he says middle-class families would get under his plan. 
 That advertisement is among Mr. Obama's heaviest this week, apparently adding to what several polls have found as an advantage Mr. Obama holds over Mr. McCain ontaxes. Still, it is one that Mr. McCain's campaign hopes will dwindle with six more days of counterprogramming in crucial markets like this one.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Three Week's Worth of Campaign Advertisements: A New York Times analysis of the images in campaign advertisements that ran within the last three weeks found that both candidates show their opponents nearly as often as they show themselves.(Source: CMAG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); INFOMERCIALS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (56%); MEDICARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1213 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: 2 Candidates' Plans on Fiscal Issue Add to Deficits Despite Reduction Pledges

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
While both presidential candidates enter the campaign's final week promising to be the better fiscal steward, each has outlined tax and spending proposals that would make annual budget deficits worse, analysts say, with Senator John McCain likely to create a deeper hole than Senator Barack Obama would.
 Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, has proposed bigger tax cuts. He has also promised more in spending cuts, but he has not specified where most of them would come from. Even now that the financial crisis has given rise to one bailout package and prompted both candidates to call for billions more in stimulus spending, Mr. McCain has stuck by his promise to balance the budget by the end of his term, a pledge that fiscal analysts call unachievable.
 Mr. Obama, his Democratic rival, has vowed to reduce the deficit and put it on a path to balance. He also promises an expensive effort to make health care insurance more widely available, a raft of other spending programs and tax cuts for most families and small businesses. He would raise taxes on the wealthiest households to help pay for his health care plans.
 Neither presidential candidate has provided enough detail, especially about spending programs and what they would cut, for budget groups to put price tags on their agendas. 
 Conservative and liberal analysts agree that the next president should not be expected to balance the budget in his first term, because short-term deficit spending can stimulate the economy and the crisis is forcing the government to spend more in aid even as it collects less in taxes.
 But for the long run, they say, the president's fiscal record will hinge on whether he can achieve the health care cost savings each promises, which in turn will help control the fast-rising expenses for Medicare and Medicaid. Neither candidate has a comprehensive proposal to address unsustainable growth in those programs. 
 ''Neither one of them is being fiscally responsible,'' said David M. Walker, a former head of the Government Accountability Office who has long warned about the perils of deficits. 
 The next president will inherit economic challenges greater than any other president since Franklin D. Roosevelt 75 years ago. Yet while the country entered the Depression after a decade of budget surpluses, today's crisis hits a nation in worse financial shape -- with growing wartime deficits, heavy borrowing from foreigners, and crushing retirement health costs for aging baby boomers looming.
 The deficit for the 2008 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, was $455 billion, or 3.2 percent of total economic output. Analysts say it could reach $1 trillion in 2009, or more than 7 percent of projected economic output, with the country in recession and fighting a two-front war. During the 1980s, the deficit peaked at about 6 percent of economic output; economists consider anything above about 3 percent to be a worrisome level for the deficit.
 So far, both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have insisted they do not have to have to scale back their pre-crisis platforms.
 The fiscal outlook and history suggest otherwise. Among past promises that crashed against realities: Roosevelt's pledge to balance budgets, Ronald Reagan's and George Bush's antitax vows and Bill Clinton's middle-class tax cut. The current President Bush kept his biggest promises, for tax cuts and a Medicare prescription-drug benefit, but the national debt has doubled to more than $10 trillion during his administration.
 Leon E. Panetta, who was Mr. Clinton's first budget director, said he had warned Mr. Obama of the realities ahead, should he win. ''I've told him, Bill Clinton found this out. He walked into the Oval Office, and suddenly he found he had a bigger deficit than he even thought he had.'' Mr. Clinton's reaction, he said, was, ''I'm not going to be able to do what I want to do!''
 Mr. McCain's proposed tax cuts would mean about $1.5 trillion in lower revenue over his term, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. Extending the Bush income tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 beyond their scheduled 2010 expiration would account for more than a third of that total. He also would change the alternative minimum tax to hit fewer middle-income taxpayers, reduce corporate income taxes and accelerate business write-offs for equipment. The 10-year cost of Mr. McCain's tax plan would be as much as $4.2 trillion, the center says.
 The Republican's health plan mostly seeks to reduce prices. Mr. McCain would also provide a tax credit of up to $5,000 a family to buy insurance, at a cost of about $800 billion through 2013. To partly offset that, he would make workers' employer-provided health benefits taxable as income. He also proposes savings from unspecified changes in Medicare and Medicaid. 
 Mr. McCain has fewer spending initiatives than Mr. Obama. His main one is to increase the size of the military. He proposes energy incentives, offset by selling permits for emissions of heat-trapping gases that are believed to contribute to climate change. He also offers income supplements for older, low-income workers and more financing for the No Child Left Behind education law.
 To help balance the budget, Mr. McCain claims billions of dollars in savings from reducing forces in Iraq. Neither he nor Mr. Obama, however, account for the increasing deployments to Afghanistan. Mr. McCain also calls for cutting ''corporate welfare,'' ending spending earmarks for special projects and freezing domestic appropriations in his first year. 
 By his final budget for 2013, Mr. McCain estimated he would cut $114 billion -- he does not say how -- to reach balance. He would still be about $200 billion short, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. But that estimate does not include the costs of the $700 billion financial bailout package already passed by Congress (its proponents say much of the price tag will be recouped by the government in the long run) or any additional economic stimulus plans that Congress might approve in coming months.
 Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a centrist budget watchdog group, estimated Mr. McCain could fall about $600 billion short in 2013, roughly the annual cost of Medicare.
 Mr. Obama would extend the Bush tax cuts for taxpayers making less than $250,000 a year, and repeal them immediately for those above that level. He would cut other taxes, including for low-income workers and small businesses, and raise taxes on the dividends and capital gains of the affluent. Like Mr. McCain, he would change the alternative minimum tax to apply only to the rich, as intended, and close corporate loopholes, most of them unspecified.
 Mr. Obama says the new revenue from higher taxes on the well-off would pay for his health plan, which would cost an estimated $115 billion the first year, but increase after that. That still leaves his tax cuts for everyone else to add to the deficits.
 The Tax Policy Center estimated that the overall revenue loss would be nearly $1 trillion for Mr. Obama's term, and $2.9 trillion measured over a decade. Annual federal spending, which exceeds 20 percent of gross domestic product, would grow under both men's plans. Revenue would continue to be a lower percentage, measured against the size of the economy -- 18.3 percent under Mr. Obama, and 17.6 percent under Mr. McCain, according to the tax center. The difference signals continued, deepening deficits.
 The size of both candidates' tax cuts troubles many budget analysts. Even if the next president succeeds in reining in health care costs, said Joseph J. Minarik, senior vice president of the business-supported Committee for Economic Development, those savings will take years to appear while the tax cuts would be immediate.
 Mr. Obama's spending plans, beyond his health care initiative, would mean increases for education, infrastructure, research and foreign aid, and more for bolstering the military than Mr. McCain has proposed. 
 He has a more ambitious climate-change proposal, mandating that companies buy emissions permits at government auctions. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that those could bring in up to $300 billion annually by 2020. Mr. Obama would use the initial revenue for energy initiatives and tax rebates to offset many Americans' fuel costs. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Campaign Promises: Then and Now: CANDIDATE BILL CLINTON SAID
 SENATOR BARACK OBAMA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); TAX INCREASES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); FAMILY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); MEDICARE (69%); MEDICAID (68%); LIBERALISM (65%); AGING TRENDS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008



1214 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Sees A Budget Gap Of $47 Billion

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson said on Tuesday that the state's budget deficit had swelled to a projected $47 billion over the next three and a half years amid a worsening global financial crisis, and that the state must end its addiction to excessive spending.
 The state is now projecting that as a result of the crisis and its ripple effects, New York will lose 160,000 private-sector jobs between now and the end of 2009, and face a sharp drop in income tax and corporate tax revenue. 
Mr. Paterson said that a gap of $12.5 billion has already opened between projected revenues and spending for the 2010 fiscal year, which begins on April 1. He expects deficits of $15.8 billion for the following fiscal year and $17.2 billion in fiscal year 2012.
 ''We will face massive deficits in this state,'' the governor said at a news conference in Manhattan. ''And we're going to have to take bold and urgent actions to try to accommodate them.'' 
 But the governor pointedly declined to offer any ideas on how to address the mounting problems, saying he would wait to see what reductions legislative leaders propose and respond with suggestions of his own. 
 Lawmakers, however, did not seem eager on Tuesday to offer any cuts. Indeed, many legislators have been promising to preserve popular spending programs as they seek re-election, especially in the fierce battle for control of the State Senate.
 The Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, the Legislature's top Republican, tossed the deficit problems back to the governor in a statement saying that he looked forward ''to reviewing the governor's plans for dealing with the state's growing budget deficit.'' 
 The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said little beyond acknowledging ''we will need to tighten our belt'' while protecting the middle class. 
 The governor plans to testify before the House Ways and Means Committee in Washington on Wednesday to add his voice to calls for a federal stimulus package that would provide relief to state and city governments dealing with fallout from the banking-system turmoil.
 ''In order to get through this,'' Mr. Paterson said, ''we are going to need federal assistance.'' 
 In describing the severity of the state's finances in his news conference, Mr. Paterson used words like ''unprecedented'' and ''uncharted.'' 
 He predicted that the housing market would not rebound until the last quarter of 2009 and said the state is projecting housing prices to fall for 15 consecutive months. ''That did not even occur in the Great Depression,'' the governor said.
 His administration is projecting 45,000 layoffs in the financial sector during the current downtown, which is 50 percent more than the job losses after the Sept. 11 attack. And Wall Street bonuses are expected to fall by 43 percent next year alone.
 But even in outlining the drops in revenue that he forecast, Mr. Paterson stressed that Albany must control its appetite for expansive spending. 
 Over the last 15 years, state spending has grown at nearly double the inflation rate. And lawmakers have already made commitments for spending next year that would, when added to expected increases in Medicaid and other hard-to-control costs, result in the budget growing by another 12 percent.
 ''I call on my partners in government,'' he said, ''to come back to Albany and help me cut our spending.''
 The governor has scheduled a special legislative session for Nov. 18 and wants lawmakers to cut more than the $1.5 billion deficit in the current year's budget. He said he hoped that they would present him with proposals for $2 billion in cuts by Nov. 7.
 The governor hopes that lawmakers will be willing to make tough decisions on spending after the Nov. 4 election, and take a hard look then at prized programs for their districts.
 ''When they get back to Albany in November,'' Mr. Paterson added, he expects them ''to deliver.''
 Mr. Paterson's strategy of letting the Legislature take the lead in making the cuts drew a range of reactions from budget experts on Tuesday. Some thought he was abdicating his leadership role, while others said he was making a savvy move to reach consensus with lawmakers. 
 Elizabeth Lynam, the deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, said that by putting the burden on the Legislature, Mr. Paterson is showing that he believes he has the upper hand on budget issues. 
 ''He has been a leader on this issue. He's been proven right,'' she said, adding, ''I think he feels like he's in a strong position.''
 Next month's special session, however, will be a prelude to much more difficult decisions ahead. Assemblyman Rory I. Lancman, a Queens Democrat, said that state leaders could ''pick and peck'' to close this year's deficit but would be far more hard pressed next year and beyond. ''To get to 2010, you've got to have some big thinking,'' he said, adding, ''We need to comprehensively redo the way we structure government in New York,'' he said.
 More bad news came on Tuesday from State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, whose office said the state pension fund, valued at $153.9 billion at the end of March, had suffered a loss of about 20 percent, or roughly $30 billion, over the last seven months. That could increase the amount of money that municipalities have to contribute to the pension system in the future. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson warned on Tuesday that state budget deficits would swell vastly, and called for the state to curb spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); HOME PRICES (61%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); CITIES (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008



1215 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: Pay Attention, Please!

BYLINE: SANDHYA NANKANI


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students examine the effects of multitasking and evaluate its impact on their own efficiency. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students will examine the effects of multitasking and evaluate its impact on their own efficiency.
Author(s):
Sandhya Nankani, The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 to 2 class periods
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now:
 Conduct the following multitasking experiment in your classroom. It was created by Dr. David E. Meyer, a psychologist at the University of Michigan who is quoted in the related article "Multitasking Can Make You Lose ... Um ... Focus." (Source: "Infinite Mind," a public radio health and science program.)
 Depending on available time and class size, split students into small groups, with each group choosing one or two people to partake in the experiment with the remaining students acting as time keepers or observers. Alternatively, you can choose to do it in a group setting with a few student volunteers as the test takers and the rest of the class as observers. Note that you will need multiple decks of cards, one for each test taker.
 Experiment Set-Up:
 You will need a deck of cards and four quarters for this experiment. Before you start, pull all the 6's, 7's, 8's and 9's from the deck and set the rest of the cards aside.
 To start, place the seven of clubs to the left, the nine of hearts a half inch beside the seven to the right, then the six of spades and finally the eight of hearts. Place each of the quarters about three inches below the row of cards in an even row. The quarters should be three inches from the edge of the table.
 Once this is set up for each test taker, have students do each of the following parts:
 Part One. Numbers: Take the remaining 12 cards and shuffle them. Holding them face down, turn them over one by one, placing the 6's on the quarter below the six of spades, the 7's on the quarter below the seven of clubs, the 8's below the eight and so on, saying the numbers as you place them. How much time did it take?
 Part Two. Suits: Shuffle the cards again. Holding them face down, turn them over one by one, this time sorting the cards by suit. You'll put all the clubs below the club, all the hearts below the heart, etc., until you've gone through all 12 cards, saying the suits as you place them. Again, how long did you need?
 Part Three. Numbers and Suits: Shuffle the cards one more time. Holding them face down, turn them over once again one by one. But this time, you will alternate between sorting by number and sorting by suit, starting with numbers. So, you will place the first card by its number, the second card by its suit, the third card by its number and so on until all 12 cards have been played. Be sure to announce the card as you place it. And again, how long did it take?
 After the experiment is completed, ask students to evaluate whether they spent more time sorting by numbers and suits than they did using only one criterion. What were the experiences of the students who were sorting the cards? What did observing students notice about speed, pace, body language? Tell students that in most cases, participants take much longer sorting by both numbers and suits than when using only one criterion. Then tell them that they have just done an activity designed to simulate the effects of multitasking, which they will now read an article about.
 2. ARTICLE QUESTIONS:
 As a class, read and discuss the article "Multitasking Can Make You Lose ... Um ... Focus," and concentrate on the following questions: 
 a. How does the brain handle multitasking? Why do you think humans are better able to multitask than animals like dogs and cats? 
 b. What did the M.I.T. professor Earl Miller's study with young adults show? Do you agree or disagree with its conclusions? 
 c. What are the benefits of multitasking, according to the article? d. What are the downsides and dangers of multitasking? 
 e. Do you tend to multitask often? If so, what activities do you often do simultaneously? Have you ever noticed that multitasking can cause you to lose focus or to think or move more slowly?
 3. ACTIVITY:
 Divide students into two groups: a trial group and a control group. Give both groups the PDF handout "A Focus on Reading" and tell them that they will be doing a reading comprehension exercise for the next 15 minutes. Put the two groups into different rooms. Observe and keep time for one group, with a colleague or selected student doing the same for the other.
 The trial group should work with the handout with at least one external stimulus. For example, students do the exercise while listening to the tracks of their choice on their iPods; alternatively, you can set up and play a TV/video, radio or music clip in the background, or students might even be permitted to send text messages, instant messages, or e-mails. In any case, the secondary stimulus should be running while the trial group is reading. Tell them that as long as they get through the short passage and answer the questions, they can watch TV, listen to their music, send text messages, etc., while doing the activity.
 Meanwhile, the control group should work with the handout in a standard classroom with no external sound stimuli.
 Instruct students to read the handout, then turn the paper over to answer the questions. They may not return to the article; they must work from memory to answer the questions. Finally, they should write a two-sentence summary of the article beneath the questions on the handout.
 Reconvene the class and evaluate their responses. What did the time takers and observers find? How did each group perform on the quiz? What was the students' experience? Ask the students how the external stimulus and multitasking affected their efficiency (response time, ability to focus, etc.)? How did it affect whether they answered correctly or incorrectly? Did anything surprise them in the warm-up activity, the article or the experiment? Based on what they experienced, do they think their own study habits might require a second look? If so, how?
 4. FOR HOMEWORK OR FUTURE CLASSES:
 Individually, students keep track of how often they multitask over the course of a week in a journal. They should include data on how often they multitask and notes on their habits in all areas of their lives. Do they text and eat at the same time? Watch TV while IM-ing? Do they watch TV and exercise at the same time? Do they study while they are online? They should note down occasions when they became aware of their habits and think about what types of multitasking seem to boost their creativity and productivity versus the types of multitasking that slow them down.
 Additional and alternative activities:
 -Students experiment with single-tasking and report back on their experience. Examples include sitting still while talking on the phone, not reading e-mail while talking on the phone, driving without listening to music. How difficult was it to break their multitasking habits? Did they notice a difference in the experience? If so, what was it? In what ways is multitasking satisfying, even inspiring? In what ways does it detract from the "main" activity?
 -Students experiment with their own study and work habits, starting with a hypothesis like, "Multitasking while studying may affect my ability to retain information" or "Multitasking while writing an essay may prolong the process." They then test the hypothesis by, for example, studying for a quiz or test or writing an essay without external stimuli and evaluating whether doing so seemed to affect their concentration, focus, retention, study time, recall ability, etc. Finally, they write a reflection on the experiment.
 Related Times Resources:

        
ADDITIONAL TIMES ARTICLES AND MULTIMEDIA:
 Article: Slow Down, Brave Multitasker and Don't Read This in Traffic
 Article: Souping Up a Cell Phone for Maximum Multitasking
Article: Investigators Say Train Engineer Sent Text Messages Seconds Before Crash
TierneyLab Blog Post: 
Graphic: Media Multitasking

        
LEARNING NETWORK RESOURCES:
Lesson Plan: So Much to Do, So Little Time
 Learning About Multitasking in the Computer Age
Lesson Plan: Strategies for Success
 Proposing Steps to Improve Bad Habits
 Teaching With The Times: Teen Health
Teaching With The Times: 

        
ARCHIVAL TIMES MATERIALS:
"Talk, Type, Read Email"
 1998 article on multitasking, then a new term.
"Technology Makes Us Faster; Addicted to Speed"
 1997 article on how technological developments have led to an appetite for increased speed in entertainment vehicles.
"The Executive Computer: The Magnificent Memory Residents"
 1985 article about technological barriers to multitasking.

        
TIMES TOPICS:
Text Messaging
Psychology and Psychologists
iPod

        
OTHER RESOURCES:

 The Multitasking Series
 October 2008 NPR series on multitasking, including effect on teens and a Navy test.
http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200711/multitasking
 The Autumn of the Multitasker
 A novelist's experience with "the nightmare of infinite connectivity," from The Atlantic. 
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Economics Conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the schoolwide use of technology tools for schoolwork. Include estimates and calculations associated with, the financial costs of purchasing and upkeeping technology tools (personal computers, calculators, printers, wireless networks, software, etc.), the time and/or money spent on training and learning, time lost to computer crashes, etc. The benefit side should include corresponding estimates with respect to efficiency. How can the costs be minimized and the benefits be maximized? Present your findings to your school's technology coordinator or other administrator.
 Journalism How have newspapers developed their online presences in light of technological advancements? Look at nytimes.com as well as other newspaper Web sites and write a report on the benefits and drawbacks of reading the Internet and the print versions of the paper. Include commentary on your own reading habits, including whether and how you tend to multitask with both versions. 
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8, 9-12
 Health Standard 2- Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health.
 Health Standard 7- Knows how to maintain and promote personal health. 
 Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior.
 Technology Standard 3- Understands the relationships among science, technology, society and the individual.
 Language Arts Standard 1 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. 

        
Multitasking Can Make You Lose ... Um ... Focus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); VOLUNTEERS (53%) Health; Language Arts; Mathematics; Personal Health; Science; Social Studies; Technological Innovations; The Human Body; The Scientific Method

COMPANY: UNION PLASTIC PCL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: UP (SET) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326130 LAMINATED PLASTICS PLATE, SHEET (EXCEPT PACKAGING) & SHAPE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3083 LAMINATED PLASTICS PLATE, SHEET, & PROFILE SHAPES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



1216 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Sony's Profit Shrinks by 72%, Pressured by Strong Yen and Slow Markets

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Sony reported a 72 percent drop in profit in the most recent quarter on Wednesday, hurt by a stronger yen and the global slowdown.
 The poor results were expected, after the Tokyo-based electronics and entertainment conglomerate last week cut its annual profit forecast for the fiscal year through March 2009 by 58 percent. 
 Sony made that revision after sales of its Bravia line of flat-panel televisions and digital cameras fell faster than expected in October, suggesting a deepening slump in the second half of the fiscal year.
 Sony has joined a succession of Asian exporters reporting lower earnings, including Canon, Samsung and Honda, which all cut yearly forecasts. They have blamed drops in global and particularly American demand, contradicting an old notion that Asian economies were decoupling from the United States. 
 This evidence of continued vulnerability to an American slowdown, combined with panicked selling because of the financial crisis, has hammered stock prices across the region. Shares in companies like Sony, once a darling of foreign investors, have plunged as these investors have fled. That drove Sony's shares to a 16-year low on Monday.
 On Wednesday, the price rallied slightly to 2,035 yen ($21.51), though that is still down 67 percent for the year. Earnings were reported after Japan's stock markets had closed on Wednesday. 
 Many analysts say share prices of top Japanese companies have fallen so far as to defy reason. Not only Sony but many of Japan's best-known brands -- including Toyota, Panasonic and Bridgestone -- have had their market value drop below their so-called book value, the total worth of their buildings, equipment and other physical assets.
 ''The market is treating Sony and Toyota like pariahs,'' Paul Migliorato, head of research at NamiNori, a Honolulu-based equity research firm, said. ''Any sense of reality has been hijacked by momentum and fear.'' 
 One source of pessimism has been the strength of the yen, which investors have bought as a safe haven in the financial crisis and to pay back global borrowing of yen, known as the yen-carry trade. 
 A stronger yen hurts exporters like Sony by raising the price of their goods overseas and reducing the yen value of profits earned abroad.
 Sony cited the yen's gains against the euro as being particularly painful to its bottom line. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EURO (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (56%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1217 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Advocates For Gaza Challenge Blockade

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
A boatload of international campaigners challenged the Israeli blockade of Hamas-run Gaza on Wednesday and sailed into a small port there, the third such landing in two months. 
 Among the 27 activists and crew members of the vessel that sailed from Cyprus were Mairead Maguire, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who led a campaign against violence in Northern Ireland; Mustafa Barghouti, an independent Palestinian legislator from the West Bank; two Israeli citizens; and individuals from various countries including Britain, Italy and the United States.
 The voyage, as was the last one, was organized under the auspices of the Free Gaza Movement, a Palestinian advocacy group based in El Cerrito, Calif. 
 In late August, the first two boats arrived together in Gaza despite Israeli threats to stop them. Israeli Foreign Ministry officials said at the time that there had been a last-minute decision to let the boats through to avoid a public relations debacle, and not to play into the hands of people they described as provocateurs. 
 This time, too, Israeli officials had stated that the boat would not be allowed to reach Gaza, yet it was allowed to proceed without hindrance.
 ''It was decided at the highest levels to allow them to enter,'' said Yigal Palmor, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, without explanation. 
 Hamas, the Islamist group that took control of Gaza in June 2007, is classified as a terrorist organization by Israel, the United States and the European Union. Israel strictly limits the volume and type of goods entering the area by land, though the economic embargo has eased somewhat since a truce took effect in June.
 Still, Israel maintains a policy of isolating the area. The authorities denied entry this week to 120 international academics and health professionals who had applied to attend a conference organized by the Gaza Community Mental Health Program, which offers a range of local services and is supported by the World Health Organization and other international bodies. The conference focused on the state of mental health in Gaza in light of the blockade.
 The international experts participated by video conference from Ramallah, in the West Bank. 
 Before dawn on Wednesday, Israeli forces shot dead a Palestinian man in the village of Yamoun, near Jenin, in the northern West Bank. A spokesman for the Israeli military said that the man, Muhammad Abahreh, 67, had fired a hunting rifle at a force that was on a routine operation in the area, and that the soldiers had fired back. 
 Mr. Abahreh's son, Taher, told news agencies that his father, a farmer, was guarding his livestock against rustlers in an enclosure just outside the village when he was shot in the dark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); CYPRUS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1218 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Expected To Drive Tuition Up

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Tuition costs rose slightly faster than the Consumer Price Index last year, and students received record amounts of financial aid, according to the annual reports on college pricing and student aid released Wednesday by the College Board. 
 But while financial aid is growing, average student borrowing is still going up, as well. 
 Moreover, many education experts said that the report's findings of relatively stable college affordability, based on data gathered before the current economic downturn, might already be outdated. With the troubles in the stock market, they said, both public and private colleges may soon be in serious financial straits, forcing large increases in tuition. 
 ''Given the economic strain on state budgets, the pressure on state governments to shift the cost of education to students and families may prove irresistible,'' said Molly Corbett Broad, president of the American Council on Education, which represents 1,600 colleges and universities. ''Private institutions, too, given the loss of endowment income and expected cutbacks in private giving, will likely be forced to increase tuition at the same time they struggle to increase institutional financial aid.''
 For the current school year, the reports found, the average in-state tuition and fees at public four-year institutions increased by 6.4 percent -- to $6,585 -- not much more than the 5.6 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index. At two-year public colleges, average tuition and fees rose 4.7 percent, less than inflation, to $2,402. Private four-year colleges and universities' average tuition and fees are $25,143, 5.9 percent higher than last year. 
 ''College prices are doing what other prices are doing,'' said Sandy Baum, a senior policy analyst for the College Board and a Skidmore College economics professor. ''They're not going up more rapidly; they're just keeping pace. But then, we had an unusually high rate of inflation. And with the current economic crunch, we don't know what will happen next year.''
 Already, state cuts to university budgets have led to announcements of tuition increases in more than a dozen states, including some that will take effect in the spring semester. 
 But as the costs of college rise, so does student aid. Last year, the reports said, graduate and undergraduate students received more than $143 billion in financial aid, including grants, federal loans, federal work-study assistance and federal tax credits. In addition, they borrowed $19 billion from state and private sources.
 Undergraduates received an average of $8,896 in financial aid, including $4,656 in grant aid and $3,650 in federal loans, an increase of about 5.5 percent over the previous year, adjusted for inflation, according to the report. 
 After holding steady at 5.2 million for two years, the number of Pell Grant recipients rose to 5.4 million last year. 
 ''The Pell Grant scholarship, which Congress has significantly boosted in the past two years, is playing an increasingly important role in expanding college access, especially for low- and middle-income families,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee.
 While the tuition report, ''Trends in College Pricing,'' covers this academic year's costs of college, ''Trends in Student Aid'' is based on the previous academic year's data. 
 Private loan volume declined slightly that year, but still represented almost a quarter of the total loan volume. 
 ''In '07-08, the full effect of the credit crunch wasn't evident, but it was starting -- credit was getting tighter,'' Ms. Baum said. ''We all expect that private loans will be down next year. More families are understanding that it makes sense to get all the government loans they can.'' 
 For most families, net tuition -- the discounted amount most students actually pay -- is more important than a college's published tuition.
 At private four-year institutions, the average net tuition, after grants and tax benefits are subtracted, is about $14,900, some $10,200 less than the published price -- and that net price has been growing more slowly than the published price. 
 At public four-year colleges, where the net price has been increasing faster than the sticker price, the net tuition is about $2,900, or $3,700 less than the published tuition.
 And at public two-year colleges, the net price has steadily declined, and now is only about $100, or $2,300 less than the published tuition. Because of their higher prices, private colleges, especially second-tier institutions without large endowments, may have big problems next year.
 ''Private colleges face a real quandary,'' Ms. Baum said. ''Everybody's going to have more people applying for financial aid, and it could really be that they're going to lose enrollment if they can't meet the need.'' 
 Since the markets went into free fall last month, private colleges have been working to persuade worried families that their institutions may still be affordable. 
 ''In these tough economic times, Job 1 of every private college and university will be keeping their student aid budgets in line with growing financial need, and working creatively to keep student out-of-pocket costs as low as possible,'' David L. Warren, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, said Wednesday in a statement. ''Eighty-one percent of full-time, dependent students at private colleges receive institutional grant aid, averaging $10,011.'' 
 With worsening economic conditions, public and private institutions alike may cut back the ''merit aid'' offered to attract particular students -- often, those whose grades and test scores will improve their rankings -- and use that money on aid to needier students instead. 
 According to the report, public four-year institutions give only 44 percent of their aid dollars to students with financial need. On average, 38 percent of the public universities' aid goes to non-need-based merit aid, and 18 percent to athletic scholarships. 
 ''There's a real public policy question there,'' Ms. Baum said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: COLLEGE FEES: College tuition rose slightly this academic year, but financial aid also continued to grow. (Source: College Board) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (85%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (79%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1219 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Concerned Fed Trims Key Rate by a Half Point

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington and Vikas Bajaj from New York. Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve lowered its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point on Wednesday, its second big rate cut this month, as policy makers tried to fend off what could be the worst economic downturn in decades.
 The move brought the target rate for federal funds -- the interest rate at which banks lend to each other overnight -- to 1 percent, down to the near-record lows reached in 2003 and 2004, when the Fed was trying to encourage an economic recovery after the bursting of the Internet bubble. The central bank left open the possibility of going still lower, warning ''downside risks to growth remain.'' 
 As the crisis that began in the mortgage market spreads through the economy, policy makers are redoubling their efforts to contain the damage. Even as the Fed reduced rates on Wednesday, the Bush administration was weighing a plan to slow the foreclosure epidemic in the nation's housing market. Details of the initiative were in flux, but the plan could involve the government guaranteeing the mortgages of as many as three million at-risk homeowners, a step that could cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars, people briefed on the plan said. 
 But neither the Fed's move nor word of the possible mortgage rescue were enough to allay concern in the financial markets that the economy was in deep trouble. The stock market, which had rallied briefly after the rate cut was announced shortly after 2 p.m., tumbled in the final minutes of trading. 
 In a statement, the Fed acknowledged that the economy had lost steam on almost every front -- consumer spending, business investment, financial markets and even exports, which had been the one bright spot recently. For the time being, infla-tion is of little concern. 
 ''The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures,'' the central bank said. Industrial production and investment in new equipment have also slowed, it said, and slumping growth around the world has reduced demand for American exports. 
 The government has taken a series of extraordinary steps in recent weeks to get credit flowing again, but while the strains in the credit markets have eased somewhat in response, confidence remains fragile. The central bank left room for itself to drive short-term rates even lower, saying that it would ''act as needed'' to promote both sustainable growth and stable prices. 
 But analysts said lower interest rates were not likely to accomplish much at this point, because the economy's biggest problem is the fear among banks and financial institutions about lending money.
 ''The difference between 1.5 percent and 1 percent is really pretty insignificant, particularly when the banking system is as weak as it is,'' said Ethan Harris, a senior economist at Barclay's Capital. ''You have a big uncertainty shock. It's not just that the markets have declined. People are uncertain about where the world is going.''
 Indeed, the stock markets reacted chaotically, even though the rate cut was in line with what investors had been expecting. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged nearly 200 points in the first few minutes after the announcement at 2:15 p.m., then zigzagged before closing down 74.16 points at 8,990.96.
 The Federal Reserve is within striking range of reducing the overnight lending rate to zero, a point that Japan reached in the 1990s and where it remained for years while struggling to revive its economy. 
 If the federal funds rate were to reach zero, the Fed would not be out of tools for stimulating the economy. But it would have to resort to unconventional approaches that it has never used before. Instead of trying to reduce rates on overnight loans between banks, for example, it might start buying longer-term Treasury securities. 
 If the Fed bought, for example, two-year Treasury notes, that demand would push prices up and yields down, and presumably would also push down the interest rates for consumer credit that tracks those Treasury securities. 
 The Fed's biggest weakness at the moment is that the economy's problems have less to do with interest rates than the reluctance of banks and financial institutions to lend money. Even though the Fed has lent almost $600 billion to financial institutions in the last month alone, banks are still reluctant to lend to businesses or consumers.
 Since the credit crisis began in August 2007, the Fed has slashed the overnight lending rate from 5.25 percent. But interest rates for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages are about 6.3 percent, roughly where they were when the credit crisis began. 
 Many economists contend that the United States economy has already slipped into a recession that could well last longer and be more severe than any downturn since the early 1970s.
 Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm in St. Louis, said the spate of discouraging economic data over the last four weeks has prompted it to mark down its estimate of third-quarter growth from a slight increase of 0.1 percent to a contraction of 0.7 percent.
 ''It's unbelievable what has happened to all aspects of financial conditions in the past several weeks,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers. ''Everything has changed in such a dramatic way.''
 Both consumers and businesses have ratcheted back spending. Major corporations from General Electric to Coca-Cola have announced layoffs, and Detroit's automakers are struggling to survive. 
 Private forecasters expect that the Commerce Department, which will release its initial estimate of third-quarter growth on Thursday, will report that the economy contracted about one-half of 1 percent. But most forecasters expect the fourth quarter to be down by 2 percent or more. 
 The United States has shed more than 700,000 jobs so far this year, and the unemployment rate has climbed to 6.1 percent, from 5 percent in January. What makes that alarming to many analysts is that the job losses usually have come so early in the downturn. 
 Traditionally, companies have been cautious about laying off workers at the start of a downturn and equally cautious about adding workers after a recovery begins. 
 ''The ground is moving from underneath us,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial, an investment firm in Chicago.
 Details of the administration's plan to stem foreclosures were still under discussion on Wednesday, but people briefed on the effort said the government might guarantee $500 billion to $600 billion of home loans, or about 5 percent of all loans, for up to five years. The ultimate cost to taxpayers is uncertain and would ultimately depend on the course of the housing market and the economy. The government is expected to allocate up to $50 billion to the program, which assumes only a small portion of the homeowners will default on their loans and losses will be limited. 
 Officials from the White House, the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are working on the plan and an announcement could come in the next few days or weeks. Sheila C. Bair, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has been the leading proponent of the plan and first discussed the idea publicly a week ago.
 A spokeswoman for the Treasury, Jennifer Zuccarelli, said it would be premature to discuss a plan that policy makers are still working on. ''As we said last week, the administration is going through the White House policy process too look at ways to reduce foreclosures, and that process is ongoing,'' she said. ''We have not decided on a particular approach.''
 The plan was authorized by Congress earlier this month as part of the $700 billion financial rescue package. Though the government would only allocate about $50 billion to the program, because the money serves as a reserve for losses, it could be used to back loans totaling between $500 billion to $600 billion.
 Like with any other insurance company, the government would spend money when something bad happens. In this case, the Treasury or the F.D.I.C. would make a payment to investors or banks if borrowers with loans that have been modified fall behind on their new, lower payments. The government would only cover half of the losses on defaulted loans.
 The program is intended to entice servicing companies that handle billing and collections to reduce payments for homeowners by lowering interest rates and writing down loan balances. At the end of June, nearly 1 in 10 mortgages was delinquent or in foreclosure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. After rallyinh, the Dow closed down 74.16. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A20) CHART: FED'S BENCHMARK RATE (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1220 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: In This Murder Mystery, the Only Real Mystery Was Whether It Was Self-Defense

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
They had both outlived scores of men who had died by the gun in that very Brooklyn neighborhood, but their story, played out in a murder trial that ended on Wednesday, is a reminder that a man is never too old to get killed in a barroom quarrel -- and never too old to do the killing.
 On May 5, 2007, Joe Seals, 64, entered a social club in Bedford-Stuyvesant where he had been a fixture for many years and limped over to a seat at the bar. At the other end of the bar sat a 63-year-old bouncer named Robert Ellis, a man Mr. Seals had known for two decades. Words were exchanged. Mr. Ellis rose from his stool, and Mr. Seals pulled a pistol from his waistband and shot him in the face. Mr. Ellis fell, dead, and Mr. Seals ran, gave the pistol to a stranger, and admitted the shooting to detectives before the sun set. 
 Despite his videotaped statement, Mr. Seals fought the murder and manslaughter charges, claiming he fired in self-defense, and on Wednesday, he listened in a courtroom, clutching a Bible, as his fate was announced. 
 It was not the struggling-for-the-gun sort of self defense, but something older and deeper, steeped in reputation and bad blood. The threats Mr. Seals said he felt had been repeated over the years in the dark and cramped bar called the Sportsman's Athletic Club, where older men and women gathered for drinks and a loose conversation that spun out over decades.
 ''He was talking about fighting,'' Mr. Seals said of the victim on the videotape, which was placed into evidence at his trial. ''I've seen him hit people with bats. I've seen him grab people and choke them.'' 
 He said he had no intention of killing Mr. Ellis. He burst into tears at the station house, saying, ''I ain't never gonna see those trees no more.''
 Mr. Seals waived his right to a jury trial, and the case was heard solely by Justice Neil J. Firetog in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. Mr. Seals's lawyer, Richard I. Rosenkranz, called as witnesses old friends who said Mr. Seals was a peaceful man and Mr. Ellis was not. But in his videotaped statement, Mr. Seals was his own star witness, lanky and stammering, in turn sorrowful, angry, afraid and even funny. 
 While being read his rights, he began to cry. ''I ain't got no lawyer,'' he said. ''I ain't got nothing. I don't even know if I have a friend.'' A burly detective leaned over and patted him on the knee, and he calmed down. 
 He told of a quarrel with his companion over groceries. Word spread quickly at the bar, and the regulars mocked him. He said Mr. Ellis, in particular, seemed to delight in his romantic troubles. 
 Unemployed and broke, Mr. Seals accepted loans from a couple of friends, and when he had $120 in his pocket, he spent $8 on a cab to the club for a drink late that morning. ''Soon as I walk in, they start,'' he said in his confession. ''Telling me this and that and this.'' 
 It was then, Mr. Seals said, that Mr. Ellis -- a bouncer and bartender at the club who used a cane that was believed to hide a knife inside -- said something about fighting. Mr. Seals, emboldened by being flush, returned some of the taunts. 
 ''I said, 'You swing like a white woman,' '' he recalled. '' 'You kick like a chorus girl.' It was all fun.'' 
 ''He said, 'You got a pistol?''' Mr. Seals continued. ''I said, 'Yeah.' He jumped up and started.'' He told the detectives he was carrying the gun in hopes of selling it, not firing it. Mr. Ellis approached. ''I shot at the floor,'' Mr. Seals said. ''I figure he might stop.'' 
 According to testimony at the trial, Mr. Ellis outweighed Mr. Seals by about 100 pounds, and had cocaine and alcohol in his system. 
 Mr. Seals said Mr. Ellis kept coming at him, so he fired again at the floor (in truth, both rounds struck a wall near the floor) but he was becoming scared. ''If he takes this pistol, he's gonna thrash me with that pistol and kill me,'' Mr. Seals said on the videotape.
 He fired a final time: ''By him coming made me pull the trigger again a little faster. But I never had no intentions to kill him. I never wanted to kill him.''
 In court Wednesday, after 17 months in jail, Mr. Seals entered wearing eyeglasses and handcuffs, his gray hair cut close. His lawyer, in his closing statement, said Mr. Seals did not run away from the oncoming Mr. Ellis because he did not think he could. 
 ''For the defendant to turn around and try to get out that door before the victim got to him is shooting dice,'' Mr. Rosenkranz said. ''Although the defendant may shoot dice on other occasions, he has no reason to shoot dice with his life.''
 The prosecutor, Howard Jackson, an assistant district attorney, argued that being picked on or bullied was not justification for murder. 
 ''There is no rule of law called the 'bad-person rule' that gives Joe Seals that right,'' he said. ''This is not a nice man, then shoot him in the face and kill him.'' 
 Along with murder and manslaughter, Mr. Seals faced lesser charges, including weapons possession, which seemed a foregone conclusion: he never denied carrying the gun. 
 When the lawyers were done talking, Justice Firetog asked for the videotape of Mr. Seals' confession and left to consider his verdict. He returned almost two hours later. On the charge of murder, not guilty. On the charges of second-degree manslaughter and weapons possession, which carry a maximum sentence of 15 years, guilty. Mr. Seals just nodded. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Seals, on trial for a killing in Brooklyn, with his lawyer, Richard I. Rosenkranz, left.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SELF DEFENSE (90%); WITNESSES (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MANSLAUGHTER (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1221 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Drivers Take to the Road Again as Gas Prices Fall

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: VINTON, La. 

 BODY:
Doug Guidry gave up drag racing and boating last summer when gasoline prices shot up. Billy Castaneda put off trips to Houston to see his grandchildren. Randal Shul stopped playing paintball with his buddies to save gas.
 Now, with gasoline prices dropping, all three men are hitting the road again. ''Gas going down means freedom, even when everyone is worried about the economy,'' Mr. Castaneda said as he filled his 1995 Oldsmobile 88 to drive 125 miles to Houston the other day.
 The sharp decline in gasoline use earlier this year -- with volume down nearly 10 percent in some weeks -- suggested to many people, including the automobile companies, that a permanent change in American habits might be at hand. But with gasoline prices falling drastically in recent weeks, some American drivers are returning to their old ways.
 What is happening in this blue-collar bedroom community of refinery, food processing and casino workers reminds energy analysts of what happened the last time the oil price collapsed. The frugality of the 1970s, when oil was high, eventually gave way to an era when people drove longer distances, lived farther from work and traded in their cars for minivans and then sport utility vehicles. 
 ''Driving habits die hard, and they can reincarnate quickly,'' said Christopher R. Knittel, an economist at the University of California, Davis, who studies gasoline demand. In the late 1980s, he added: ''As soon as gas prices fell, there was no real incentive to drive less anymore. If oil prices continue to fall and the economy recovers, I would expect consumers to return to wanting larger and less fuel-efficient cars.''
 With auto companies closing factories that produce sport utility vehicles in favor of smaller, gas-efficient cars, it may be hard to veer back to the gas-guzzling days very quickly. But Dan Lopez, business manager at the Ford dealership in the Louisiana town of Sulphur, near here, says he has already noticed a shift. Truck sales froze over the summer, he said, but now ''some people are gradually getting back into the truck market. We're used to the comforts, frills and whistles, and so if gasoline goes down to a reasonable level, people will not stay in a little boxy fuel-efficient car.'' 
 Gasoline demand is still down from last year, in part a reflection not just of high prices but also of the economic slowdown. As unemployment goes up, fewer people are driving to work and going out to dinner and shopping. Vacation trips are being put off. Trucking companies are consolidating routes as factory and retail orders slide. 
 Oil prices are sinking as the global economy weakens, and gasoline is following oil downward. The national average price for a gallon of unleaded gasoline on Wednesday was $2.59, $1.05 lower than a month ago and more than $1.50 below the record of $4.11 in July. Gas prices have not been this low since March 2007.
 The latest statistics released by the Department of Transportation for August show that when gasoline prices rose, Americans responded by driving less. In that month Americans drove 15 billion fewer miles, or 5.6 percent less, than in August 2007. It was the 10th consecutive month of a decline in miles driven and the most sustained reduction since the 1970s.
 It will be a while before the government releases official traffic data covering the last few weeks, when gasoline prices were falling steeply, so it is too soon to say for certain that people are driving more. But along with anecdotal evidence, some early statistical indicators suggest some increase in gasoline demand in recent weeks.
 Data compiled by MasterCard Advisors, covering both credit and cash sales of gasoline, had been showing a strong decline of gasoline consumption in early October, when prices were still high. For the weeks ending Oct. 3 and Oct. 10, for example, gasoline sales were down 9.5 percent and 9.7 percent, respectively, compared with the same weeks in 2007.
 But a MasterCard Advisors report released Tuesday showed that in the last two weeks, with pump prices falling, consumption of gasoline was down only 6.4 percent in each week compared with the same weeks of 2007.
 Michael McNamara, vice president of MasterCard's SpendingPulse data service, said gasoline consumption declined in recent months because of a combination of the slowing economy and high prices at the pump. ''You are starting to get some easing from one of the two pressure points,'' he added.
 Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said: ''Demand is trickling back among everyday people.'' He added that gasoline retailers around the country were telling him ''they are probably past the bottom of demand destruction for 2008, meaning they see subtle signs that gasoline demand is increasing.''
 Mr. Kloza and other analysts, however, note that the severity and longevity of the recession will largely determine how much people drive in the coming year. The apparent increase in discretionary driving has by no means translated into improved fortunes for the Detroit automobile companies, whose sales remain deeply depressed, partly because the credit crisis is preventing people from getting car loans.
 The big uncertainty in the minds of analysts is whether the summer's run of high gasoline prices wrought any lasting change in the nation's consumer psychology. 
 Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, said that what happened over the summer ''was not demand destruction but demand reduction, which is largely reversible.'' He added, ''The sharp price increases did not happen long enough to permanently affect behavioral decisions.''
 Mr. Goldstein's view, however, is not shared by all energy analysts.
 ''Four-dollar gasoline might have accelerated behavioral changes, but the behavioral changes began at $2.50 or $3 a gallon,'' said Aaron Brady, an analyst at Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 A report Mr. Brady co-wrote in June noted that more Americans bought the Toyota Prius hybrid than the Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle in 2007 and that the growth in total vehicle miles traveled in the United States slowed significantly in 2005 and 2006, before declining slightly in 2007. The report noted that it was the first time that total vehicle miles had declined since the late 1970s.
 The Arab oil embargo and Iranian revolution led to oil supply shocks at that time, creating a prolonged period of high gasoline prices that lasted through the mid-1980s. People cut down on their driving and drove smaller cars, and government standards forced a big improvement in the fuel efficiency of the American car fleet. 
 But in the late 1980s, as prices eased, people switched back to larger cars. With prices low through the 1990s and early 2000s, sport utility vehicles became the vehicle of choice for many Americans. Those vehicles, because they were technically light trucks, were subject to lower efficiency requirements.
 Conservationists hope there will be no similar loopholes in recently adopted efficiency standards that dictate that automakers build vehicles averaging 35.7 miles a gallon for passenger cars and 28.6 miles a gallon for light trucks in model years 2011 through 2015, with better mileage for the trucks after that. Other analysts, however, warn that improved fuel efficiency over the years has simply encouraged people to live farther from work and otherwise drive more miles on the same budget.
 In Vinton, as in so many American towns, what drivers seem to care about most is the price at the pump, and they said in recent interviews that cheaper gas was helping them live better. 
 Willy Lewis, a nurse's aide, said he just started mowing his lawn every week again after mowing it every third week this summer to save gasoline. Katina Sneed, a housewife who would like to work as a secretary, complained that higher gasoline prices had impeded her ability to find employment.
 ''I didn't have enough money to put in the car to look for a job'' until the last few weeks, she said. ''I can do a little more searching now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lower gas prices let Katina Sneed fill up and look for a job.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Randal Shul, left, and his roommate Jerad Swaggard stopped playing paintball with their friends to save gas.With unleaded now at $2.59 a gallon, they can afford to fill up in Vinton, La.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B14) CHART: A Break at the Pump: Gasoline and diesel prices have been falling very quickly from their highs earlier this year.(Source: Oil Price Information Service) (pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); TRUCKING (61%); CASINOS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1222 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Countries To Receive I.M.F. Loans

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Just as the American financial crisis has gone global, so has the rescue effort.
 On Wednesday, the International Monetary Fund announced it would lend up to $100 billion to healthy countries that are having trouble borrowing as a result of the turmoil in the global markets. And the Federal Reserve said it would commit up to $30 billion each to Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Singapore, to enable those countries to more easily swap their currencies for dollars.
 The coordinated measures are meant to restore confidence in emerging markets, where stocks and currencies have plunged in recent days as hedge funds and other investors pull out. 
 Shares and currencies surged in places like Sao Paulo and Mexico City on Wednesday after the news.
 ''It would just be a huge, unfortunate mistake if we allowed the stresses of the financial systems in the United States and Europe to spill over and unintentionally undermine these economies,'' said Charles H. Dallara, the managing director of the Institute of International Finance, a group of more than 300 global banks that pushed for the measures.
 Already, fragile economies in Iceland, Hungary and Ukraine have almost collapsed, and are receiving emergency loans from the fund.
 This new program -- potentially one of the largest in the fund's history -- is intended for countries with more sound finances and solid growth that suddenly face the threat of corporate or even government defaults as foreign investors flee.
 Countries in this category, including Brazil, Mexico and South Korea, depend on foreign capital to finance trade and investments. Some have also borrowed heavily in foreign currencies, and the sharp declines in their own currencies make those debts much harder to repay.
 Under the program, countries could borrow five times the amount they are normally entitled to -- $25 billion, in Brazil's case -- without the strict conditions that normally accompany such loans. While the loans are for just three months, they can be rolled over three times, giving the countries close to a year to cover shortfalls.
 The loans will carry none of the strings that usually accompany fund money, including demands to raise interest rates and cut public spending. 
 The Fed's move will allow South Korea, Singapore, Mexico and Brazil to increase the supply of scarce dollars circulating in those markets.
 The agreements are similar to swaps the Fed has set up with the Bank of Japan, the Reserve Bank of Australia, the European Central Bank and others to ease the credit crisis in developed economies. 
 The Fed welcomed the fund's initiative. And the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said the measures showed deepening international cooperation two weeks before a meeting of world leaders in Washington to discuss the crisis.
 There had been rumors that the Fed and other central banks might help finance the fund's loan program. But Mr. Dallara said the Fed would have found that awkward, because the United States' contribution to the fund is channeled through the Treasury.
 The fund said it would finance these loans with its own resources, which total about $200 billion. It is soliciting more money from countries with hefty foreign-exchange reserves, like China, Japan and oil exporters.
 The fund has already agreed to lend $15.7 billion to Hungary, $16.5 billion to Ukraine and $2.1 billion to Iceland. It is in talks with Pakistan over a loan that could be even larger. The list of troubled countries will almost certainly grow.
 ''We probably will need more resources,'' said Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the fund's managing director, at a news conference. ''There is no way the fund can solve the problem on its own.''
 The loan program greatly expands the fund's role in the crisis at a time when world leaders are starting a debate about how to fashion a new global financial framework. With Western countries burdened by their own costly rescue efforts, the fund seems likely to remain the major provider of support to emerging-market economies.
 That prospect troubles some critics, who contend that the fund is prescribing the same radical measures that caused unnecessary pain in some Asian countries during that region's financial crisis a decade ago. 
 Iceland, they said, just raised its interest rate by 6 percentage points, to 18 percent, to try to stabilize its currency, which had been decimated after its banks failed. The interest-rate increase, fund officials said, was a condition of Iceland's emergency loan.
 ''They used the same vocabulary they used in past crises: that we need to restore confidence,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist who used to be the chief economist of the World Bank. ''It doesn't restore confidence; it just leads to further bankruptcies.'' 
 If the fund prescribes such remedies in a socially unstable country like Pakistan, he added, the risks would be enormous. Still, Mr. Stiglitz said he was encouraged by the new loan program.
 The government of Hungary warned on Wednesday that taking a loan from the fund would place burdens on the public. A former central bank governor, Peter Akos Bod, said he worried that the fund would press Hungary to raise its interest rates, which are already high and which, he said, contributed to the habit of Hungarian companies and individuals of borrowing in foreign currencies.
 Suspicion of the fund is a global phenomenon: the Korean government declared it would not take any loans. Feelings there are still raw from the Asian financial crisis, during which the fund forced South Korea and other countries to raise their interest rates sharply.
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, said he was aware of resistance stemming from the Asian crisis and was trying to tailor loans more closely to the conditions in the countries. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anne-Marie Gulde, of the International Monetary Fund, and Andras Simor, of the Hungarian National Bank, at a news conference announcing a $25 billion loan to Hungary on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LASZLO BALOGH/REUTERS)
 Ukraine's finance minister, Viktor Pynzenyk, left, spoke with a deputy, Oleksandr Turchinov, and Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, right, on Wednesday. Ukraine arranged a loan of $16.5 billion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEB GARANICH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: YULIA TYMOSHENKO (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (72%) BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); UKRAINE (93%); EUROPE (92%); ICELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1223 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Faces a Fall to No. 2 as Global Sales Slip

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation said Wednesday that its global sales fell 11.4 percent in the third quarter, increasing the likelihood that G.M. would lose its title as the world's largest automaker to Toyota this year. 
 G.M. said it sold 2.11 million vehicles in the quarter, compared with 2.38 million a year ago, as slumping demand in North America and Europe offset smaller gains in other regions.
 For the year so far, G.M. has sold 6.65 million vehicles, almost 400,000 fewer than the 7.05 million vehicles that Toyota of Japan sold in the period.
 Last year, G.M. edged Toyota by 3,000 vehicles to retain its status as the world's biggest automaker for a 77th consecutive year.
 The third quarter was particularly difficult for G.M., which is in merger talks with its Detroit rival, Chrysler.
 During the third quarter, G.M.'s North American sales fell 18.9 percent and its European sales dropped 12.3 percent. The automaker's sales gained 3.4 percent in its Latin America, Africa and Middle East region and 2.6 percent in Asia-Pacific.
 G.M. performed worse than the overall market in every region except Asia-Pacific.
 During the quarter, industry sales fell 15.5 percent in North America, 6.8 percent in Europe and 2.7 percent in Asia Pacific. Industry sales in the Latin America-Africa-Middle East region increased 5.8 percent in the quarter.
 Automakers have been hurt in North America this year by unstable fuel prices, a weak economy and a widening credit crisis that made it difficult for prospective new-car buyers to get loans.
 ''Uncertainty was the watchword in the third quarter,'' Michael DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief global market analyst, said.
 He said that despite actions by the United States government to restore stability to the financial markets, consumers remained wary of buying new vehicles.
 ''In the U.S. we believe it's more an issue of consumer confidence than of credit availability,'' he said.
 With sales plunging in North America, G.M.'s international sales grew as a percentage of its overall volume.
 During the third quarter, G.M. sold 1.28 million vehicles outside of the United States, accounting for 61 percent of its total sales compared with 56 percent a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); CREDIT CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1224 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Giving the Volt Some Nips and Tucks

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
''YOU may never buy gasoline again.'' It's a compelling sales pitch these days, and it's the pitch General Motors is making for its Chevrolet Volt. 
 The Volt was first shown as a concept car in 2007, and last month a production version was displayed on G.M.'s 100th birthday. Both designs were the work of a team headed by Robert Boniface, a mild-mannered Ohio native who was charged with shaping a car to be aerodynamic but space efficient, exciting but not intimidating. The car had to look like a dream, but be real. 
 The Volt, scheduled to arrive at dealers in late 2010, will use lithium-ion batteries that charge overnight. G.M. says it will be able to travel 40 miles between charges. For longer trips, a small gasoline engine will generate electricity to drive the Volt. But if you put fewer than 40 miles on the odometer every day, you may never visit a gas pump again.
 It was Mr. Boniface's job to ensure that the Volt's body cuts through the air efficiently enough to keep this promise. How the new system is packaged also has a lot to do with how well it sells. 
 G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, calls the Volt the most important car in the company's history. ''It is the symbol of G.M.'s commitment to the environment,'' he said. 
 For G.M., which is struggling mightily this year, the Volt is critical. The car is an effort to match Toyota's Prius hybrid, which has had an impact on Toyota's image far exceeding the hybrid's sales or profits. 
 But the Volt's ultimate success depends less on styling and aerodynamics and more on whether its battery system, still in development, will achieve the dependable range and 10-year life G.M. is aiming for, at a cost that makes the car affordable: G.M. promises the Volt will be priced below $40,000. But the average car sells for about $30,000, and many sell for less. 
 If Mr. Boniface feels pressure about the car's design, you would not know it to meet him. He talks sports cars and baseball. He grew up near Youngstown, drawing cars as a child and as a teenager playing with Ferraris and Corvettes in his father's classic collection. 
 He headed to Vanderbilt University in Nashville, and worked as an accountant after graduating in 1987. But his fascination with cars got the better of him. He received a degree in 1993 from the College of Creative Studies in Detroit, a leading training ground for auto designers, and was at Daimler Chrysler's Advanced Product Design Studio when G.M. hired him in 2003. 
 At G.M. he worked on teams for the Corvette and Camaro before being assigned to design vehicles with advanced power plants, including electric, gas-electric hybrid and fuel cell cars. 
 To design the concept Volt, Mr. Boniface looked at ''green cars'' and did something different.
 There are two approaches to designing cars with novel power plants. One is simply to put a new kind of engine, like a hybrid, in a conventional car, which might be reassuring to buyers. The other is to make a futuristically powered car look futuristic on the outside as well. 
 Toyota had struck a balance between these approaches with the Prius, which was different enough for drivers to enjoy being recognized as innovators without paying a penalty in practicality or weirdness of appearance. It was not beautiful, but its high-roofed, wedge shape signaled that it was a new kind of car. Its drivers were proud of it. 
 Mr. Boniface took a different tack. He gave the Volt a sporty face with echoes of the new Camaro; aquiline headlights and a low, rakish roof; and full, muscular fenders that suggested dynamism.
 He also altered the beltline, the delineation between the windowed greenhouse and the lower body that is critical to the essence of any car's theme or graphic, as designers call it. 
 The concept Volt was well received. Suddenly, G.M. found a car boasting fuel economy being treated like a sports car. Online, discussion of the Volt began to resemble discussion of iPods. 
 But to make the Volt production-ready required making it more aerodynamic. Wind tunnel tests showed that drag needed to be reduced to get the promised 40 miles of battery range. 
 As reports of G.M.'s losses and layoffs compounded, Mr. Boniface's design for the Volt was used to help hold the skeptics at bay. Volt became a prop used by top executives to illustrate their promises that things would get better at G.M. In the summer, for a CNBC documentary on the company and again for PBS's Charlie Rose, visiting Detroit, an executive tugged a curtain away from a few teasing inches of the production Volt's fender, as coyly as a grand courtesan of 19th-century Paris flaunting an ankle. 
 The full revelation had to wait. On Sept. 16, G.M.'s anniversary, sunlight streamed into the Winter Garden of the Renaissance Center, G.M.'s headquarters on the Detroit waterfront. 
 Mr. Boniface stood beside the car. ''We spent hundreds of hours of wind tunnel time to get the range we needed,'' he said. ''We rounded the front corners, so the air moves down the sides of the car smoothly.'' The grille is now mostly cosmetic to save drag; air comes in by a narrow slit, because less air is needed than for a conventional engine. The car has no rear wheel covers like the first Honda Insight hybrid or G.M.'s earlier electric car, the EV1.
 The critical change for airflow, however, is on the rear corners, where the edges are not smooth but crisp. Aero is not just about rounding things but about managing the flow and the way it adheres to shapes. 
 Mr. Boniface's colleague Michael Simcoe, the director for exteriors, explained that those 400 or 500 hours of wind tunnel time were devoted to experiments, tweaking a side mirror shape, moving the rear spoiler a bit. ''It is not a science,'' he said ''You try a lot of things. It is more a black art.''
 ''We tried to keep the graphic of the concept,'' he said, using the designer's term for its visual essence or signature. 
 Most of all Mr. Boniface was eager to show that this was now a practical car. He pointed out the rear lift gate and the fold-down rear seats. ''We even have cup holders in the back seat,'' he said. 
 But the production car looked more conventional than the concept Volt. Some Volt enthusiasts had asked Mr. Boniface to make the Volt real; now they were complaining it was too real. ''Has Volt Lost Its Jolt?'' asked a headline in Automotive News. 
 On G.M.'s ''Fastlane'' blog, Robert A. Lutz, the company vice chairman for global product development, defended the design changes. ''The challenge to the designers,'' he wrote, ''wasn't to design the most beautiful car imaginable and accept the compromises you have to make to do so. It was, make no compromise to fuel efficiency and electric range, and then do the most beautiful design possible, around those aerodynamic dictates.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE CHALLENGE: Robert Boniface had the task of making the Chevrolet Volt electric car efficient as well as exciting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); CONCEPT CARS (72%); BASEBALL (71%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (77%); TENNESSEE, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1225 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Women Buying Health Insurance Pay a Penalty

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Striking new evidence has emerged of a widespread gap in the cost of health insurance, as women pay much more than men of the same age for individual insurance policies providing identical coverage, according to new data from insurance companies and online brokers.
Some insurance executives expressed surprise at the size and prevalence of the disparities, which can make a woman's insurance cost hundreds of dollars a year more than a man's. Women's advocacy groups have raised concerns about the differences, and members of Congress have begun to question the justification for them.
The new findings, which are not easily explained away, come amid anxiety about the declining economy. More and more people are shopping for individual health insurance policies because they have lost jobs that provided coverage. Politicians of both parties have offered proposals that would expand the role of the individual market, giving people tax credits or other assistance to buy coverage on their own.
''Women often fare worse than men in the individual insurance market,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee. 
Insurers say they have a sound reason for charging different premiums: Women ages 19 to 55 tend to cost more than men because they typically use more health care, especially in the childbearing years.
But women still pay more than men for insurance that does not cover maternity care. In the individual market, maternity coverage may be offered as an optional benefit, or rider, for a hefty additional premium.
Crystal D. Kilpatrick, a healthy 33-year-old real estate agent in Austin, Tex., said: ''I've delayed having a baby because my insurance policy does not cover maternity care. If I have a baby, I'll have to pay at least $8,000 out of pocket.''
In general, insurers say, they charge women more than men of the same age because claims experience shows that women use more health care services. They are more likely to visit doctors, to get regular checkups, to take prescription medications and to have certain chronic illnesses.
Marcia D. Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center, an advocacy group that has examined hundreds of individual policies, said: ''The wide variation in premiums could not possibly be justified by actuarial principles. We should not tolerate women having to pay more for health insurance, just as we do not tolerate the practice of using race as a factor in setting rates.''
Without substantial changes in the individual market, Ms. Greenberger said, tax credits for the purchase of insurance will be worth less to women because they face higher premiums.
The disparities are evident in premiums charged by major insurers like Humana, UnitedHealth, Aetna and Anthem, a unit of WellPoint; in prices quoted by eHealth, a leading online source of health insurance; and in rate tables published by state high-risk pools, which offer coverage to people who cannot obtain private insurance.
Humana, for example, says its Portrait plan offers ''ideal coverage for people who want benefits like those provided by big employers.'' For a Portrait plan with a $2,500 deductible, a 30-year-old woman pays 31 percent more than a man of the same age in Denver or Chicago and 32 percent more in Tallahassee, Fla.
In Columbus, Ohio, a 30-year-old woman pays 49 percent more than a man of the same age for Anthem's Blue Access Economy plan. The woman's monthly premium is $92.87, while a man pays $62.30. At age 40, the gap is somewhat smaller, with Anthem charging women 38 percent more than men for that policy.
Todd A. Siesky, a spokesman for WellPoint, declined to comment on the Anthem rates.
Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said: ''Premiums for our individual health insurance plans reflect claims experience -- the use of medical services -- which varies by gender and age. Females use more medical services than males, and this difference is most pronounced in young adults.''
In addition, Mr. Noland said, ''Bearing children increases other health risks later in life, such as urinary incontinence, which may require treatment with medication or surgery.''
Most state insurance pools, for high-risk individuals, also use sex as a factor in setting rates.
Thus, for example, in Dallas or Houston, women ages 25 to 29 pay 39 percent more than men of the same age when they buy coverage from the Texas Health Insurance Risk Pool.
In Nebraska, a 35-year-old woman pays 32 percent more than a man of the same age for coverage from the state insurance pool.
Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California, said that ''if men could have kids,'' such disparities would probably not exist.
Elizabeth J. Leif, a health insurance actuary in Denver who helps calculate rates for Nebraska and other states, said: ''Under the age of 55, women tend to be higher utilizers of health care than men. I am more conscious of my health than my husband, who will avoid going to the doctor at all costs.''
''Many state insurance laws require insurance policies to cover complications of pregnancy, even if they do not cover maternity care,'' Ms. Leif said. Insurers say those complications generate significant costs.
Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, asked, ''How can insurers in the individual market claim to meet the needs of women if maternity coverage is so difficult to get, so inadequate and expensive?''
Cecil D. Bykerk, president of the Society of Actuaries, a professional organization, said that if male and female premiums were equalized, women would pay less but ''rates for men would go up.''
Mr. Bykerk, a former executive vice president of Mutual of Omaha, said, ''If maternity care is included as a benefit, it drives up rates for everybody, making the whole policy less affordable.''
The individual insurance market is notoriously unstable. Adults often find it difficult or impossible to get affordable coverage in this market. In most states, insurers can charge higher premiums or deny coverage to people with health problems.
In job-based coverage, civil rights laws prohibit sex discrimination. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission says employers cannot charge higher premiums to women than to men for the same benefits, even if women as a class are more expensive. Some states, including Maine, Montana and New York, have also prohibited sex-based rates in the individual insurance market.
Mila Kofman, the insurance superintendent in Maine, said: ''There's a strong public policy reason to prohibit gender-based rates. Only women can bear children. There's an expense to that. But having babies benefits communities and society as a whole. Women should not have to bear the entire expense.''
And that expense can be substantial.
In Iowa, a 30-year-old woman pays $49 a month more than a man of the same age for one of Wellmark's Select Enhanced plans. Her premium, at $151, is 48 percent higher than the man's.

GRAPHIC: CHART: GAP BETWEEN THE SEXES: Monthly premiums for selected individual health insurance policies. (Sources: Company Web sites: eHealth) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); ONLINE TRADING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLPOINT INC (50%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



1226 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: A Jaguar Tries to Reclaim the Brand's Cool

BYLINE: By BRADEN PHILLIPS

 BODY:
IN the 1960s, a Jaguar poster in a teenager's bedroom was an indisputable badge of cool. Posters of the car over the last decade would more likely be found in the rec rooms of golf-playing grandpas.
 Jaguar's E-Type (XK-E in the United States) and Mark II defined modernity in the '60s -- the E-Type is in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art. But modernity was not what buyers perceived in the S-Type, the sedan model that sold from 1998 until last year. 
 Buyers in recent years ''perceived the Jaguars as conservatively styled cars for old men -- sort of the iPod versus a grandfather clock,'' said Gavin Green, executive editor of Car Magazine in Britain.
 Sales declined sharply for years, and the British brand appeared to be tottering off into retirement. So when it came time to replace the S-Type this year, Jaguar executives and designers had one goal: to be cool again.
 The result is the Jaguar XF. Any new model carries the burden of high expectations, but few bear the weight of this car for the future of a company. 
 ''The XF will be the cornerstone in remaking Jaguar,'' said Mike O'Driscoll, Jaguar's managing director. ''Everyone here is determined to finally release our potential.''
 The XF has so far achieved everything Jaguar could hope for, winning high marks for its power and refinement in reviews and reversing sales declines in a tough economy. Through September, the company delivered 26,500 XFs to buyers, half of its total sales.
 Prices start at about $50,000 for an XF powered by a 300-horsepower, 4.2 liter V-8. A premium model costs $56,000 and the top model, featuring a 420-horsepower version of the same engine, is priced at $63,000. The car competes in a crowded field -- the Audi A6, the BMW 550i, the Mercedes-Benz E550, the Cadillac STS and the Lexus GS 460.
 One buyer, Beverly Rose Kubik, a television producer who lives in Sherman Oaks, Calif., said she and her husband chose the XF because ''it's not as common.''
 ''There are a million Mercedes and BMWs on the road and you look at a Jag and you say 'What is that?' since it looks like an Aston Martin or a Bentley,'' she said. ''The style is more European -- to me it's sexier.''
 The reference to the British sports car maker Aston Martin is no surprise, since Jaguar's design director, Ian Callum, used to work there. He has brought what he calls an ''assertiveness without being antagonistic'' and a ''sense of fun'' to the Jaguar, banishing the retro-oriented designs that seemed to be weighing down the brand.
 ''It's a case of what's relevant now, not 50 years ago, which Jaguar held on to for too long,'' he said. ''The Mark II had lots of wood because that was trendy then; we still have lots of wood but we apply it in a modern way.''
 The fun can be found in the car's ignition. A red button throbs like a heartbeat and, when pushed, raises the gear selector from a flush position and opens the covers on the air vents, as if the machine is awakening. The selector looks like a large volume button on a stereo; turn it for transmission positions.
 ''We wanted to move on from our previous automatic gear lever, and you have to do that 180 degrees,'' Mr. Callum said. ''It's novel, it works well, and it's ours.''
 Last March the 86-year-old Jaguar brand -- along with stablemate Land Rover -- was sold by the Ford Motor Company, its owner since 1989, to Tata Motors of India for $2.3 billion -- about half what Ford paid for the two when it bought them.
 ''Tata wants us to operate with a new spirit of independence,'' Mr. O'Driscoll said.
 Jaguar said it would produce a little over 70,000 cars this year, up from 60,000 in 2007, at its plants in Liverpool and Birmingham. There is speculation that it is developing a successor to the E-Type sports car, but Mr. O'Driscoll would say only that ''new things are in store for 2009.''
 The company is not yet profitable, analysts say, but thanks to the XF the balance sheet has at least stabilized.
 Mr. Callum said he was confident that the XF was the start of Jaguar's renaissance.
 ''I want our cars to appeal to our customers' sons and daughters,'' he said. ''I don't mean 25-year-olds will buy it, but that their parents will get confirmation from their kids that it's a cool car -- and the XF is doing that. We're returning Jaguar to its place as a sporty car maker.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POSTER CAR: The target audience for the Jaguar XF isn't 20-year-olds or grandparents but the generation between. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1227 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Europe Moves to Tighten Control of Rating Agencies

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
European officials are putting the finishing touches on a draft law that is intended to prevent conflicts between credit rating agencies and their clients. 
 Under the plans, scheduled to be published next month, ratings agencies would be required to make their working methods public and obey new rules on how staff members are paid and how long they can work with clients, according to a draft of the proposal. 
 The draft reflects the harsh criticism made by European leaders, including President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who blamed the agencies for failing to avert a breakdown in global financial markets. 
 The draft plans would end self-regulation for European credit rating agencies and would bring Europe more into line with the United States, where government has regulated the sector since mid-2007. 
 Leading credit rating agencies like Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch are used as a guide to assess the quality of assets. But the financial crisis has highlighted concerns that agencies were being paid by the companies whose creditworthiness they rate. 
 ''It is commonly agreed,'' the draft document outlining the proposal said, ''that credit rating agencies contributed significantly to the current market turmoil by underestimating the credit risk of structured credit products.'' 
 It noted that most products related to subprime mortgages were given the highest ratings and that agencies failed to adapt them when market conditions worsened. 
 The European internal market commissioner, Charlie McCreevy, plans to publish the regulation next month. Mr. McCreevy, a supporter of free-market economics, has been criticized for failing to regulate earlier in the financial services area. 
 His draft legislation, which is subject to approval by member nations and the European Parliament, is intended to establish a single regulatory system. Under the plan, the country in which the rating agency was based would have primary responsibility to authorize and supervise agencies. The Committee of European Securities Regulators, which brings together European watchdogs, would coordinate and advise. 
 The laws would be based on an existing voluntary code drawn up by the International Organization of Securities Commissions. 
 The legislation would aim to prevent conflicts and force companies to disclose their working methods more clearly and to encourage the emergence of new agencies. Pay awards could not be connected to the revenue from the rated company. 
 Legislation is inevitable, experts said, because self-regulation has failed, but some fear that Mr. McCreevy's plans may go too far. 
 ''Policy makers have no choice than to regulate,'' said Karel Lannoo, chief executive of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels, ''they cannot continue to say that agencies must follow a code of conduct because they have been saying that for 10 years.'' 
 But he added that there was a risk of ''micro-legislation'' -- rules that were too detailed for the sector -- and said that the new plans would not help reduce the dominance of the big European credit rating firms. 
 Conflicts of interest would have to be prevented within companies -- or disclosed if unavoidable -- and rating agencies would not be allowed to combine their work with consulting services, according to the draft. They would have to ''allocate a sufficient number of employees with appropriate knowledge and experience to their credit rating activity.'' 
 Their pay would ''have to be determined primarily by the quality, accuracy, thoroughness and integrity of their work.'' For companies with more than 50 staff members, a four-year time limit would be placed on work with individual clients to prevent relationships becoming too close. There would then have to be a two-year break before an employee could work again with that client. 
 The proposed new law would also require credit rating agencies to disclose the methodologies and main assumptions that they use in the rating process. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1228 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: As Merger Is Pursued, G.M. Sales Plummet

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors said on Wednesday that its global sales fell 11.4 percent in the third quarter, the latest sign of the growing problems that have led it into merger talks with Chrysler. 
 The sharp drop in vehicle sales is likely to increase pressure in Washington for the Bush administration to provide an emergency aid package for Detroit's ailing car companies.
 G.M. said sales in the third quarter fell to 2.11 million vehicles, compared with 2.38 million in the same period last year. 
 The decline means that G.M. will most likely lose its title as the world's largest automaker this year to Toyota. G.M. sold 6.65 million vehicles in the first nine months of the year, almost 400,000 fewer than the 7.05 million sold by Toyota.
 Last year, G.M. narrowly outsold Toyota by 3,000 vehicles to retain its status as the world's biggest auto manufacturer for a 77th consecutive year.
 G.M., which lost $18.8 billion during the first six months of this year, is expected to report another huge quarterly loss next week.
 The company is in merger talks with Chrysler, the smallest of the troubled Big Three of Detroit, in a deal that G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, believes is critical to its survival.
 But G.M. and Chrysler's majority owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, have so far been unable to obtain financing for the merger.
 To help support the deal, G.M. has turned to Washington to secure up to $10 billion in federal aid, but its lobbying efforts have yet to produce a bailout package from the Treasury Department or other agencies.
 People close to the merger discussions said on Wednesday that Treasury officials were receptive to Mr. Wagoner's arguments that failures of G.M. and Chrysler would have disastrous effects on the overall economy.
 However, what form an automotive aid package might take is still under debate in Washington.
 There now appears to be little chance that direct aid for the merger will come from a $25 billion federal loan program aimed at investments in more fuel-efficient vehicles, according to three people familiar with the discussions in Washington.
 Instead, any assistance for the merger is likely to take the form of government-backed loans that will pump needed cash into a combined G.M.-Chrysler, these people said.
 G.M. is burning through an estimated $1 billion in cash each month and is in jeopardy of running out of money by next year.
 Even with aid from the government, a combination of G.M. and Chrysler could still face grave financial difficulties, according to the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's.
 The agency said on Wednesday that G.M. and Chrysler might need to seek bankruptcy protection in order to combine and reorganize themselves.
 ''New access to funding could slow the erosion of these companies' liquidity,'' the agency said in a statement. ''However, rapid and massive changes would likely be integral to a business combination, raising the possibility of a financial restructuring or strategic bankruptcy filing by one or more of the parties.''
 Executives at G.M. and Chrysler have said repeatedly that bankruptcy is not an available option or strategy.
 The overall auto industry has been hammered this year by the lowest demand for new vehicles in the United States in at least 15 years.
 The combination of unstable gas prices, a soft economy and tight credit for consumers has dried up showroom traffic.
 In the third quarter, G.M. said its sales fell 18.9 percent in North America and 12.3 percent in Europe, overwhelming its 3.4 percent gain in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and 2.6 percent increase in the Asia-Pacific region.
 Michael c. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief global market analyst, said ''financial turmoil'' had eroded the confidence of consumers.
 ''In the U.S., we believe it's more of an issue of consumer confidence than of credit availability,'' Mr. DiGiovanni said on Wednesday in a conference call with analysts and reporters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); LOBBYING (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1229 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: Where Did the Cash Go?

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The American International Group is rapidly running through $123 billion in emergency lending provided by the Federal Reserve, raising questions about how a company claiming to be solvent in September could have developed such a big hole by October. Some analysts say at least part of the shortfall must have been there all along, hidden by irregular accounting.
 ''You don't just suddenly lose $120 billion overnight,'' said Donn Vickrey of Gradient Analytics, an independent securities research firm in Scottsdale, Ariz. 
 Mr. Vickrey says he believes A.I.G. must have already accumulated tens of billions of dollars worth of losses by mid-September, when it came close to collapse and received an $85 billion emergency line of credit by the Fed. That loan was later supplemented by a $38 billion lending facility. 
 But losses on that scale do not show up in the company's financial filings. Instead, A.I.G. replenished its capital by issuing $20 billion in stock and debt in May and reassured investors that it had an ample cushion. It also said that it was making its accounting more precise. 
 Mr. Vickery and other analysts are examining the company's disclosures for clues that the cushion was threadbare and that company officials knew they had major losses months before the bailout. 
 Tantalizing support for this argument comes from what appears to have been a behind-the-scenes clash at the company over how to value some of its derivatives contracts. An accountant brought in by the company because of an earlier scandal was pushed to the sidelines on this issue, and the company's outside auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, warned of a material weakness months before the government bailout.
 The internal auditor resigned and is now in seclusion, according to a former colleague. His account, from a prepared text, was read by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in a hearing this month.
 These accounting questions are of interest not only because taxpayers are footing the bill at A.I.G. but also because the post-mortems may point to a fundamental flaw in the Fed bailout: the money is buoying an insurer -- and its trading partners -- whose cash needs could easily exceed the existing government backstop if the housing sector continues to deteriorate. 
 Edward M. Liddy, the insurance executive brought in by the government to restructure A.I.G., has already said that although he does not want to seek more money from the Fed, he may have to do so. 
 Continuing Risk
 Fear that the losses are bigger and that more surprises are in store is one of the factors beneath the turmoil in the credit markets, market participants say. 
 ''When investors don't have full and honest information, they tend to sell everything, both the good and bad assets,'' said Janet Tavakoli, president of Tavakoli Structured Finance, a consulting firm in Chicago. ''It's really bad for the markets. Things don't heal until you take care of that.'' 
 A.I.G. has declined to provide a detailed account of how it has used the Fed's money. The company said it could not provide more information ahead of its quarterly report, expected next week, the first under new management. The Fed releases a weekly figure, most recently showing that $90 billion of the $123 billion available has been drawn down. 
 A.I.G. has outlined only broad categories: some is being used to shore up its securities-lending program, some to make good on its guaranteed investment contracts, some to pay for day-to-day operations and -- of perhaps greatest interest to watchdogs -- tens of billions of dollars to post collateral with other financial institutions, as required by A.I.G.'s many derivatives contracts. 
 No information has been supplied yet about who these counterparties are, how much collateral they have received or what additional tripwires may require even more collateral if the housing market continues to slide. 
 Ms. Tavakoli said she thought that instead of pouring in more and more money, the Fed should bring A.I.G. together with all its derivatives counterparties and put a moratorium on the collateral calls. ''We did that with ACA,'' she said, referring to ACA Capital Holdings, a bond insurance company that filed for bankruptcy in 2007. 
 Of the two big Fed loans, the smaller one, the $38 billion supplementary lending facility, was extended solely to prevent further losses in the securities-lending business. So far, $18 billion has been drawn down for that purpose. 
 For securities lending, an institution with a long time horizon makes extra money by lending out securities to shorter-term borrowers. The borrowers are often hedge funds setting up short trades, betting a stock's price will fall. They typically give A.I.G. cash or cashlike instruments in return. Then, while A.I.G. waits for the borrowers to bring back the securities, it invests the money. 
 In the last few months, borrowers came back for their money, and A.I.G. did not have enough to repay them because of market losses on its investments. Through the secondary lending facility, the insurer is now sending those investments to the Fed, and getting cash in turn to repay customers.
 A spokesman for the insurer, Nicholas J. Ashooh, said A.I.G. did not anticipate having to use the entire $38 billion facility. At midyear, A.I.G. had a shortfall of $15.6 billion in that program, which it says has grown to $18 billion. Another spokesman, Joe Norton, said the company was getting out of this business. Of the government's original $85 billion line of credit, the company has drawn down about $72 billion. It must pay 8.5 percent interest on those funds. 
 An estimated $13 billion of the money was needed to make good on investment accounts that A.I.G. typically offered to municipalities, called guaranteed investment contracts, or G.I.C.'s.
 When a local government issues a construction bond, for example, it places the proceeds in a guaranteed investment contract, from which it can draw the funds to pay contractors. 
 After the insurer's credit rating was downgraded in September, its G.I.C. customers had the right to pull out their proceeds immediately. Regulators say that A.I.G. had to come up with $13 billion, more than half of its total G.I.C. business. Rather than liquidate some investments at losses, it used that much of the Fed loan. 
 For $59 billion of the $72 billion A.I.G. has used, the company has provided no breakdown. A block of it has been used for day-to-day operations, a broad category that raises eyebrows since the company has been tarnished by reports of expensive trips and bonuses for executives. 
 The biggest portion of the Fed loan is apparently being used as collateral for A.I.G.'s derivatives contracts, including credit-default swaps. 
 The swap contracts are of great interest because they are at the heart of the insurer's near collapse and even A.I.G. does not know how much could be needed to support them. They are essentially a type of insurance that protects investors against default of fixed-income securities. A.I.G. wrote this insurance on hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of debt, much of it linked to mortgages.
 Through last year, senior executives said that there was nothing to fear, that its swaps were rock solid. The portfolio ''is well structured'' and is subjected to ''monitoring, modeling and analysis,'' Martin J. Sullivan, A.I.G.'s chief executive at the time, told securities analysts in the summer of 2007. 
 Gathering Storm
 By fall, as the mortgage crisis began roiling financial institutions, internal and external auditors were questioning how A.I.G. was measuring its swaps. They suggested the portfolio was incurring losses. It was as if the company had insured beachfront property in a hurricane zone without charging high enough premiums. 
 But A.I.G. executives, especially those in the swaps business, argued that any decline was theoretical because the hurricane had not hit. The underlying mortgage-related securities were still paying, they said, and there was no reason to think they would stop doing so. 
 A.I.G. had come under fire for accounting irregularities some years back and had brought in a former accounting expert from the Securities and Exchange Commission. He began to focus on the company's accounting for its credit-default swaps and collided with Joseph Cassano, the head of the company's financial products division, according to a letter read by Mr. Waxman at the recent Congressional hearing. 
 When the expert tried to revise A.I.G.'s method for measuring its swaps, he said that Mr. Cassano told him, ''I have deliberately excluded you from the valuation because I was concerned that you would pollute the process.'' 
 Mr. Cassano did not attend the hearing and was unavailable for comment. The company's independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, was the next to raise an alarm. It briefed Mr. Sullivan late in November, warning that it had found a ''material weakness'' because the unit that valued the swaps lacked sufficient oversight. 
 About a week after the auditor's briefing, Mr. Sullivan and other executives said nothing about the warning in a presentation to securities analysts, according to a transcript. They said that while disruptions in the markets were making it difficult to value its swaps, the company had made a ''best estimate'' and concluded that its swaps had lost about $1.6 billion in value by the end of November.
 Still, PricewaterhouseCoopers appears to have pressed for more. In February, A.I.G. said in a regulatory filing that it needed to ''clarify and expand'' its disclosures about its credit-default swaps. They had declined not by $1.6 billion, as previously reported, but by $5.9 billion at the end of November, A.I.G. said. PricewaterhouseCoopers subsequently signed off on the company's accounting while making reference to the material weakness.
 Investors shuddered over the revision, driving A.I.G.'s stock down 12 percent. Mr. Vickrey, whose firm grades companies on the credibility of their reported earnings, gave the company an F. Mr. Sullivan, his credibility waning, was forced out months later. 
 The Losses Grow
 Through spring and summer, the company said it was still gathering information about the swaps and tucked references of widening losses into the footnotes of its financial statements: $11.4 billion at the end of 2007, $20.6 billion at the end of March, $26 billion at the end of June. The company stressed that the losses were theoretical: no cash had actually gone out the door. 
 ''If these aren't cash losses, why are you having to put up collateral to the counterparties?'' Mr. Vickrey asked in a recent interview. The fact that the insurer had to post collateral suggests that the counterparties thought A.I.G.'s swaps losses were greater than disclosed, he said. By midyear, the insurer had been forced to post collateral of $16.5 billion on the swaps. 
 Though the company has not disclosed how much collateral it has posted since then, its $447 billion portfolio of credit-default swaps could require far more if the economy continues to weaken. More federal assistance would then essentially flow through A.I.G. to counterparties.
 ''We may be better off in the long run letting the losses be realized and letting the people who took the risk bear the loss,'' said Bill Bergman, senior equity analyst at the market research company Morningstar. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the American International Group's use of more than $120 billion in emergency lending from the Federal Reserve referred incorrectly to the 2007 restructuring of the bond insurance company ACA Capital Holdings, which some experts offer as a model for resolving A.I.G.'s difficulties. That transaction was done out of court; the company did not file for bankruptcy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donn Vickrey, a forensic analyst, is skeptical of A.I.G.'s past reports. ''You don't just suddenly lose $120 billion overnight,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Martin Sullivan, left, former head of A.I.G., with Lynn Turner of the S.E.C. at a House hearing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INSURANCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); GRADIENT ANALYTICS INC (57%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (58%); MARTIN J SULLIVAN (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1230 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Saving Gas, on 3 Wheels

BYLINE: By JOHN HANC

 BODY:
ON his commute to work, Willie Abbasi has become a star -- and it has nothing to do with the quality of his tuna salad sandwiches.
 ''I'm a big attraction,'' said Mr. Abbasi, 48, who lives in Rockville Centre on Long Island. At stoplights along the 17-mile drive to his deli in Farmingdale, heads turn, power windows slide down, and questions -- pretty much the same questions -- are asked.
 What do you call that thing?
 ''It's a trike -- a Piaggio.'' 
 Is it a motorcycle or some kind of car?
 ''Neither. It's got three wheels, two in front one in back.''
 How fast can you go?
 ''Up to 80, but I'm happy to do 60.''
 And his favorite question, posed by a teenager who pulled up alongside him on Sunrise Highway this past summer:Can you pop a wheelie?
 ''I haven't tried, but I don't think so.'' Mr. Abbasi laughs as he recalls his response to that last one. 
 To him, the question that should be asked -- the answer to which led him to take to the choked roads of suburbia in something that looks as if it should be navigating Naples -- is about cost.
 Mr. Abbasi bought his Piaggio MP3 -- now his everyday transportation, except in cold or wet weather -- at a dealer in East Hampton for $7,500 in March. 
 He liked the price, and liked it even more when he realized he was paying only about $11 a week for gas.
 Mr. Abbasi is now a confirmed triker. As such, he may also be an early adopter in what some experts think could become a significant market segment. 
 Commonly used in other parts of the world as day-to-day transportation, the trike in America has long served as a sort of rocking chair for motorcyclists; the bike you ride when you don't really feel up to riding a bike anymore.
 But now the three-wheeled vehicle seems poised to reinvent itself, as new manufacturers, new designers and the new realities of American life on the road are making it an increasingly attractive alternative to four wheels. 
 Sales of trikes in the United States climbed by 8.6 percent last year, to 24,443 from 22,496, according to CNW Marketing Research, which tracks trends in the industry. Most of the increase, said Art Spinella, CNW's president, comes from ''brand new people on trikes.'' CNW's research found that 63 percent of those who bought a trike in the past year listed fuel economy as the primary motivation. 
 That hasn't always been the case. 
 The customers ''buying trikes from us are typically your baby boomers coming into retirement age,'' said Shaun Cady, co-owner of Trike Traders in Kissimmee, Fla. His company converts motorcycles into trikes by adding a third wheel in the back (one wheel in front, two in the back is the traditional American trike configuration, although there are also ''reverse trikes,'' with a two-in-front, one-in-back setup). While the aging Easy Riders still want to enjoy the open ride, they may now have, as Mr. Cady puts it delicately, ''a degree of discomfort with two-wheel vehicles.''
 Mr. Abbasi had no discomfort with motorcycles, primarily because he had never owned one. For him, the impetus to go three-wheel was ''gas prices going through the roof.''
 ''He is exactly the person that is purchasing the new wave of three-wheeled vehicles in the U.S.,'' said Jeremy Korzeniewski, who writes about motorcycles for autoblog.com. ''Vehicles like that have been very popular in Europe for quite some time, but the gas crisis in the U.S. is driving people to consider more fuel-efficient actions here.''
 The difference in how these vehicles are marketed here and abroad says much about the trike culture. Consider the Pompeo, recently introduced in Brazil. On its Web site, the futuristic looking vehicle is touted (in Portuguese) as ''economical ... ecological ... safe.'' By contrast, the Canadian-built Campagna V13R advertises itself to the North American market as ''three wheels of pure fun'' with a ''unique hot rod design.'' Further evidence of the target market is suggested by the name of a dealer in Napa, Calif., that sells the V13R: ''Big Kid Toys.'' 
 The recent introduction of the Harley-Davidson Tri Glide Ultra Classic also illustrates the transitional state of the trike. Harley's entrance into an industry dominated by smaller or foreign makers was significant -- and with a price tag of about $30,000, the Tri Glide (much bigger, more powerful and accessory-laden than Mr. Abbasi's Piaggio) has been well received. ''Our first unit was gone in two hours, literally,'' said Bob Althoff, owner of a Harley dealership in Columbus, Ohio. But, he said, the desire for fuel savings or interest in a new form of transportation is not why he has a waiting list for the Tri Glide. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''it's a touring bike.''
 In other words, it's a Harley with a third wheel, to make it easier to handle.
 Compare that with the positioning of the Aptera, an electric-powered trike that looks more like a jet plane than a Harley. The first of these vehicles, also priced around $30,000, will be available in California in 2009. Why there? ''We know a large segment of early adopters live in California,'' said Marques McCammon, chief marketing officer for Aptera Motors, which is based in Carlsbad.
 The Aptera, which has a closed passenger compartment that seats three, can be powered through any 110-volt electric circuit, and gets 120 miles per charge. While it has three wheels, the word ''trike'' is not mentioned in Aptera's literature. ''We'd never define ourselves as a trike,'' Mr. McCammon said, adding that three wheels is the most efficient platform. ''You've got less weight, less frontal area and less resistance. In very simple terms it translates into less energy consumption.'' 
 And that may be what the trike will ultimately become: a fuel efficient, three-wheeled car. 
 ''It wouldn't surprise me to see one of the major auto companies produce an alternate-power, fully enclosed three-wheeler,'' Mr. Spinella said.
 For now though, buying a trike is still a bold move, especially in the suburbs where trikes are few and a rider like Mr. Abbasi continues to be questioned -- and teased. 
 Undeterred, he keeps riding happily into what may be an increasingly three-wheeled future. ''Every time I get on it,'' he said, ''I smile.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRICYCLE BUILT FOR TWO: The V13R is marketed as a three-wheel roadster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAMPAGNA MOTORS)
 JETSONS 2008 Aptera is developing a three-seater trike with one rear wheel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PTERA MOTORS)' PIONEER: Willie Abbasi uses his Piaggio trike to get around on Long Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (89%); TRENDS (76%); MOTORCYCLES (75%); SUBURBS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1231 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: For Marbury, The Best Seat In the House

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Right from the tip-off, we have to admit this much about Mike D'Antoni: he is nowhere as soft as his Phoenix teams reputedly were. Yes, he makes his point quickly, but he also defends.
 By benching Stephon Marbury along with Eddy Curry in his Knicks coaching debut at Madison Square Garden, D'Antoni moved the Knicks beyond Isiah Thomas's faux franchise players in the real-life equivalent of seven seconds or less.
 He made a decision that was cold, if not hard, and didn't look back, or down at the end of the bench, where an emasculated Marbury sat. He didn't waver when the New York crowd experienced amnesia and mustered sympathy for one its own, chanting ''We Want Steph!'' or when the Knicks nearly sabotaged their energetic performance before holding on Wednesday night to beat the Miami Heat, 120-115. 
 ''I hate it for Steph,'' D'Antoni said afterward. ''He's done nothing wrong.'' This season, he meant.
 D'Antoni had already declared Curry out of the rotation because ''the reality is that he's not ready.'' But even Danilo Gallinari, the No. 1 draft pick, who had not suited up for a single minute since his injuring his back in a July summer league game, was granted a three-and-a-half-minute cameo. 
 The contradiction could not have been lost on D'Antoni, who is too smart to believe we are too dumb not to recognize it either. ''There's a direction the franchise is going to go,'' he said. ''And I want to keep on that direction.''
 His road map is apparently as far away from the Thomas era and straight toward Cleveland with a red carpet to drop at the feet of the anticipated free agent in 2010, LeBron James.
 Understand that D'Antoni did not fall from outer space onto the Knicks' bench. In Phoenix, he did get to work with Marbury for a season and a half. He no doubt saw enough of Marbury and Curry with the Knicks the last few years to come to the conclusion that they are not tough-minded winners, or even committed professionals.
 There is no looking backward for that latter commodity or for even a suitable front man to lead the march across the bridge they hope will lead to LeBron. 
 ''I can't play everybody and have everybody be happy,'' D'Antoni had said earlier, with the so-sue-me frankness of a newly minted power broker.
 Out of the lineup less than two years after he was anointed as Thomas's centerpiece, Curry may brood but he is not the type to openly rebel. Marbury took the high road after the benching -- ''If this is what it is, there's always next year,'' he said -- but why he is still here at all speaks to the stubbornness that has served him so poorly throughout his career. Why would he not at least try to negotiate a buyout with the hope of rebuilding his credibility with a contender?
 It's clear the Knicks will not pay him off in full to just go away. Be it on general principle, the bad economy or the need to save every penny for LeBron, the longtime big spender James Dolan has suddenly turned into Jim the Pauper. The release of Patrick Ewing Jr. -- by name alone a blast from the past and by sheer work ethic a breath of fresh air -- and the retention of the contractual albatross Jerome James, however symbolic, ran contrary to the stated desire to cleanse.
 While D'Antoni said, ''No door is closed,'' Marbury already seemed locked into a private purgatory, watching Jamal Crawford, Chris Duhon, Nate Robinson and, for gosh sakes, Mardy Collins get all the backcourt minutes. 
 Curry could revitalize himself, especially if Zach Randolph is dealt for future salary-cap purposes. But Marbury has no place in the development of a supporting cast that LeBron James or one of the other celebrated stars who might be part of the 2010 free-agent class might consider. From that perspective, the play of Crawford, Robinson, David Lee and Wilson Chandler was uplifting, as was the Cavaliers' defeat Tuesday night in Boston. 
 Asked if he watched the Celtics championship ceremony, D'Antoni said, ''I don't watch other teams' championship celebrations.'' But Lee did, and said he was inspired as Paul Pierce was welcomed into the Celtics' championship club with tears streaming down his face.
 ''They were getting blown out at home, their fans were turning on them, they won 24 games the season before -- those are things we're familiar with here,'' Lee said.
 The Celtics' turnaround was swift and stunning; these Knicks will do nothing of the sort this season, even as they hurry down the court, looking for quick shots, while planning to take their best one in two years at LeBron.
 By then, Marbury will be long gone, probably forgotten, a far cry from Wednesday's postgame scene, when he was surrounded by reporters after what might have been the most forgettable night of his professional career.
 ''You all know we won, right?'' Lee said from the dressing stall next door.
 Yes, they did but D'Antoni made Marbury the focal point with a brazen show of opening-night authority. Tiresome as it is, this story does not go away until Marbury finally does.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephon Marbury, now a reserve, is in the final year of his contract with the Knicks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); MIAMI HEAT (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1232 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Suicide Bombers Hit Pockets of Calm in North Somalia, Killing at Least 21

BYLINE: By MOHAMMED IBRAHIM and JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Mohammed Ibrahim reported from Mogadishu, Somalia, and Jeffrey Gettleman from Nairobi, Kenya.

DATELINE: MOGADISHU, Somalia 

 BODY:
Five suicide car bombers attacked government and United Nations sites in northern Somalia on Wednesday, killing at least 21 people. The attacks shattered the rare sense of calm that had existed in a few corners of the country.
 The suicide bombers struck within half an hour in Hargeisa, the capital of breakaway Somaliland, and Bosasso, in Puntland, said Faisal Hayle, a security official in Mogadishu for the transitional government of Somalia. 
 Several buildings were leveled by the attacks, which Somali officials quickly labeled the work of Islamist terrorists. The bombers struck between 10 and 10:30 a.m., first attacking in Hargeisa, long considered the safest city in Somalia. They struck the Somaliland presidential palace, an Ethiopian Consulate office and a United Nations office there. 
 The Somaliland president, Dahir Rayale Kahin, who spoke to the BBC Somali service, said that his secretary and his adviser had been killed in the attack on the palace and urged people to cooperate with the police.
 ''We are very, very sorry for what happened,'' he said, adding that Somalilanders' ''independence and existence has been attacked.'' 
 ''I am telling you that the enemy is among you, and you must pick them up,'' he said. 
 At least 20 people were killed and more than 30 others wounded in the attacks in Hargeisa, according to officials and witnesses. Reuters quoted witnesses as saying that the death toll from the five attacks totaled 28, and that at least 20 of the deaths had occurred at the Ethiopian office in Hargeisa.
 In the port of Bosasso, two huge blasts rocked the city as suicide bombers attacked two offices of the Puntland security forces, killing one person and wounding six soldiers, residents and officials said.
 There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks. Faisal Hayle, the security official, blamed a militant Islamist group called the Shabab, which the United States considers a terrorist organization.
 The Shabab has been waging a relentless war against Somalia's weak transitional government, but most of its attacks have been confined to south-central Somalia. Hargeisa, in northern Somalia, had been considered an oasis of stability, where the ubiquitous teenage gunmen who haunt the rest of Somalia's streets were remarkably absent.
 The Somaliland government has been credited with setting up a small but functioning democracy, and providing a degree of peace and safety to more than a million people. The government was in the middle of registering people for coming presidential elections. 
 Several United Nations agencies are based in Hargeisa because it is considered one of the few areas in Somalia where aid workers are safe.
 Neighboring Puntland, on the other hand, is fast emerging as a center of piracy and kidnapping.
 In a statement on Wednesday, the United Nations Development Program said that a suicide bomber had entered its compound in Hargeisa and that there were casualties and deaths, but the agency gave no precise figures.
 The attack may have been timed to coincide with a meeting in Nairobi, Kenya, between Somalia's transitional leaders and foreign forces supporting them. 
 Militant Islamist groups were not invited to the talks, and organizations like the Shabab have shunned the discussions. The militant group says it wants to turn Somalia into an Islamic state and has demanded the withdrawal of Ethiopian troops. 
 Ethiopian forces have been backing Somalia's transitional government and have been among the targets of previous suicide attacks claimed by the Shabab. Last year, there were several suicide attacks on Ethiopian and Somali government army bases, but nothing like Wednesday's coordinated assault, with five suicide attacks in a single day.
 At a news conference after the attacks, the Puntland president, Mohamud Muse Hirsi, placed the blame for the bombings on terrorists seeking to jeopardize Puntland's security.
 ''It was two shocking blasts that we haven't seen before,'' he said, accusing outsiders of carrying out the attacks. ''We know their faces, and they are not Puntlanders.'' 
 The first bomb exploded at a security service intelligence office close to the presidential palace in Puntland, according to residents and officials. Two minutes later, an explosion hit the agency's office in the Laanta Hawada neighborhood, killing one person and wounding six.
 Mohamoud Awale, a resident of Bosasso, said he saw a speeding car drive into one of the offices. ''I was really very shocked because I haven't witnessed such a catastrophic event,'' Mr. Awale said.
 Hawa Mohamoud, 40, a resident with four children, said: ''When I heard the explosions, I realized that we were under attack. I don't know where I can go with these children, and it seems that our turn for the insecurity has come.''
 Somaliland broke with Somalia in the early 1990s, and Puntland declared itself semiautonomous in 1998.
 The Somaliland police were securing the streets of Hargeisa, government offices and the offices of other international organizations to prevent further attacks.
 Residents in Hargeisa poured into the streets, showing solidarity with the government, and chanting, ''We support our sovereignty and unity,'' according to Ifrah Nor, a resident. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: African Union peacekeepers from Burundi patrolling Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, a country battered by civil war.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA ABDI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); MARITIME PIRACY (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); AFRICAN UNION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (93%); HARGEYSA, SOMALIA (91%) SOMALIA (99%); ETHIOPIA (92%); SOMALILAND (90%); BURUNDI (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1233 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; DRESS CODES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Looking Good: The Sequel

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
IF you've been nagged by a vague late-1970s feeling lately, you are not alone. It is not just that, with the economy cratering, there are scary parallels between the Bush and Carter administrations. The men's wear scene is feeling it, too. Flip through the pages of a GQ from 30 years ago and you come across eerily familiar trends. 
 The magazine proclaimed 1978 ''The Year of the Short.'' On the May cover a model wore a ''summer scarf,'' and in November the men's pants were all tucked into tall outdoorsy boots. For fall, the magazine celebrated a clash of layers, textures and colors that folded a European sense of sophistication into a sporty all-American look. In case you don't have your checklist handy, all are current fashion trends. 
 This fin-de-1970s moment was the culmination of the fumbling style awakening called the Peacock Revolution, begun in England a decade earlier. Now, at this decade's end, men's fashion, following years of tentatively embracing things like vests and fedoras in the name of metrosexuality, is becoming unrepentantly stylish and sophisticated. Increasingly this impulse is driven by a younger generation who, as reported in a September survey in DNR, the men's wear trade weekly, actually enjoy shopping, seeing far less stigma in the pastime than men in their 40s do.
 This fall's men's wear may seem a little on the safe side, but those clothes look better -- more versatile, more fun -- when you consider how confidently men now mix them, making their own statements. (We've come a long way from that late-'90s twin tie-and-shirt moment.) Again this mirrors the shift of 30 years ago, when a generation of upcoming designers, many of them American (like Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren), began emphasizing the idea of a ''lifestyle'' rather than trying to lure men into ''high fashion'' clothes coming from Europe.
 So it will not surprise that designers and arbiters of style have been snapping up the fashion indexes of that time: vintage copies of GQ and the cultish guides of Charles Hix: ''Looking Good'' (1977, shot by Bruce Weber), ''Dressing Right'' (1978) and ''Working Out'' (1983). 
 At Gallagher Paper Collectibles in Manhattan, Mary Gallagher cannot keep GQ in stock. ''Ever since GQ did their 50th-anniversary issue a year ago, there's been a resurgence of interest in copies from the '70s,'' she said. ''They can't get enough of them.''
 Bill Cournoyer is such a man. Mr. Cournoyer, the vice president for men's tailored clothing at Barneys New York, bought several old copies of GQ on eBay a few months ago. ''It was ones from '77, '78 and '79 that I was after,'' he said. ''I couldn't believe I was bidding against someone for them.'' (Full disclosure: it might have been me.) 
 ''There's a mood and sensibility in them that's really applicable now,'' he said. ''It's kind of classic. It's all about layering, and there's a certain masculinity to the fabrics and colors and a richness to the khakis and tans, the mixing of accessories and all the gauzy scarves that everyone is wearing now.'' Mr. Cournoyer was inspired to plan the store's spring 2009 mailer around those looks, in which classically masculine clothes are piled on with an indulgent sense of devil-may-care. 
 Jim Moore, the creative direction at GQ, remembers those days, having started at the magazine in 1979. He explained how the magazine's art director, Donald Sterzin, worked with photographers like Mr. Weber to approach men's style in a way that was less about high-fashion fantasy than about a fashionably athletic life. Today designers like Tom Ford and Michael Bastian are reworking the moment, emphasizing classic looks with an emphatic, fashionable twist.
 ''I have all those Charles Hix books,'' Mr. Bastian said. ''Something from them has made it into every single collection. It's not just the clothes, it's the vibe, which was kind of supermasculine. It was one of the first times guys were culling elements from tailored clothing, sportswear and work wear and mixing them together. That's something we just take for granted now.''
 Christopher Bollen, 32, the editor of Interview and the former editor of V, only recently stumbled across the Hix book ''Looking Good'' in a used-book store. Fascinated, he tracked down the others online.
 ''You see this real dedication to looking good and healthy that I'd never seen documented so well,'' he said. ''They took fashion very seriously in a very masculine way. They have an unapologetic way of talking about clothes that feels fresh. So many magazines sort of soft-pedal that, like 'We know you don't care about clothes, but this might make a girl think you're hot.' I don't think you need to apologize before giving me a trend.'' 
 Mr. Hix, now 66, is amazed that people remember his books and that a growing number of young men know about them as well.
 ''I didn't set out to do anything revolutionary,'' he said. ''I was writing a column for GQ at the time, and an editor came to me with the idea for the first one.''
 That first book was not met with open arms, however. His publisher did not like Mr. Weber's pictures. ''They said they were too gay,'' Mr. Hix recalled. ''It wasn't that I set out to do anything particularly gay.'' Despite (and because of) the book's best-sellerdom, he said: ''It became a kind of sport of the day to make fun of it. It's only in retrospect that it's become this thing.''
 Besides the rush he gets when young men discover his books, or when men in their 40s and 50s tell him how they conjured up a fashionable world that led them to New York, there are occasionally other perks as well. 
 Earlier this month, after learning that Connecticut, where Mr. Hix has lived since 1986 with Robert Dahlin, his partner of 46 years, would allow gays to marry, he contacted a justice of the peace mentioned in a news article to see if he could schedule a wedding for himself and Mr. Dahlin. 
 The justice replied that he would be thrilled. ''I have all your books,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Number (N)ine wool-alpaca Cowichan sweater, $1,695 at Barneys New York
tattersall cotton shirt, $425 at Bergdorf Goodman
Patrik Ervell pleated cashmere pants, $700 at Opening Ceremony
cotton bandana, $12 at Jean Shop.
2. Leather coat with shearling-lined hood, $1,595 at Emporio Armani
Scandinavian print cashmere crew neck, $547 at Barneys
cotton shirt, $330, and slim-leg wool pants, $570, both at Marc Jacobs
Michael Bastian Shetland wool tie, $180 at Bergdorf.
3. Wool-alpaca patch-pocket jacket, $1,130 at Marc Jacobs
Thom Browne tattersall oxford shirt, $350 at Bergdorf
Hanro cotton tank top, $78 at underwear-options.com
printed silk scarf, $295 at Yves Saint Laurent
Black Fleece wool trousers, $900 at Brooks Brothers
duck boots, $85 at L. L. Bean.
4. Michael Bastian striped cotton tank, $252 at michaelbastiannyc.com, and wrap cardigan, $1,195 at Saks
Dries Van Noten wide-leg wool-cashmere pants, $555 at Barneys
cashmere cable-knit scarf, $1,330 at Tom Ford. On the cover: Brown moleskin coat, $1,695, gray wool-silk henley, $790, black and gray wool pants, $920, red and black wool scarf, $330, and brown leather riding boots, $1,250, all at Gucci
brown suede and wool cardigan, $1,320 at Etro
brown low-cut leather gloves, $70 at Marc by Marc Jacobs
 borsalino cap, $250 at Bergdorf. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEAN ISIDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); TRENDS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (67%); RALPH LAUREN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1234 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Government Said to Be Discussing Plan to Aid Homeowners

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Senior Bush administration officials are discussing a plan that could help up to three million homeowners struggling to pay their mortgages to stay in their homes, three people briefed on the proposal said Wednesday. 
 The initiative could be the most sweeping government effort directed at mortgage borrowers since the financial crisis began last year. Under the plan, the government would agree to shoulder half of the losses on home loans if mortgage companies agreed to lower borrowers' monthly payments for at least five years, according to the people briefed on the plan who asked not to be named because details were still being negotiated.
 Officials from the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are working on the proposal and an announcement may come soon. Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., has been the leading proponent of the plan and first discussed the idea publicly a week ago.
 The plan could cost $40 billion to $50 billion and would be part of the $700 billion financial bailout package that Congress approved earlier this month. The money would go toward covering future losses on loans that are modified according to standards established by the government.
 The program is intended to entice more mortgage servicing companies that handle billings and collections to reduce payments for homeowners by lowering interest rates, writing down loan balances or changing other loan terms. 
 So far, many companies have been reluctant to aggressively reduce payments because they are afraid that borrowers might default again or that investors in mortgage securities might file suit.
 By offering to shoulder half of any future losses, the government hopes to stabilize the housing market. At the end of June, nearly one in 10 mortgages was delinquent or in foreclosure.
 But the effort could prove to be expensive, especially if the economic slump is more prolonged and deeper than many are expecting. For instance, if $500 billion in loans are modified under the program, 25 percent of them redefault and losses on those loans total 45 percent, the government would spend $28.1 billion (half of $56.3 billion). If redefaults are 40 percent and losses 55 percent, the government would spend $55 billion.
 A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department, Jennifer Zuccarelli, said it would be premature to discuss a plan that policy makers were still working on. 
 ''As we said last week, the administration is going through the White House policy process too look at ways to reduce foreclosures, and that process is ongoing,'' she said. ''We have not decided on a particular approach.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1235 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: In Solidly Blue Massachusetts, Hottest Race Is Over Income Tax

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In 2002, the last time Massachusetts residents voted on a measure to abolish the state income tax, opponents spent less than $5,000 fighting it and were shocked when it almost passed. 
 But this year, a tightly organized coalition has raised more than $4.5 million to defeat a similar ballot question, vastly outspending the measure's proponents on advertisements, mailings and phone banks. And while recent polls suggest they are succeeding, the opponents are not easing up.
 ''There's a lot of volatility out there,'' said Harris Gruman, campaign director for the Coalition for Our Communities, the alliance of labor unions, business groups and others that has fought the repeal. ''We have to keep closing the education gap about what this is.'' 
 The state's 5.3 percent income tax provided about 40 percent, or $12.5 billion, of its budget last year. Under the ballot proposal, the tax would be cut in half next year and eliminated in 2010. Elected officials have warned of staggering cuts to schools, police departments and other services, which helps explain why unions are leading the opposition.
 The National Education Association contributed $1.5 million through Oct. 15, according to state records, and its state affiliate, the Massachusetts Teachers Association, gave almost $1.6 million. 
 The group supporting the measure, the Committee for Small Government, collected about $430,000 through Oct. 15, mostly from individual donors outside Massachusetts. Carla Howell, the group's leader and a former Libertarian Party candidate for governor, said donations were still coming in.
 ''I don't have figures because we are running around breathlessly and don't have time to look them up,'' Ms. Howell said. ''Certainly, it's a David versus Goliath situation in the fund-raising, but we shall see what voters decide to do.''
 In a poll released late last week, 59 percent of respondents opposed the measure, known as Question 1, and 26 percent supported it. The poll of 400 voters, conducted by Suffolk University/7News, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
 Earlier polls had also suggested more opposition than support, but the gap was narrower. 
 Ms. Howell was dismissive of the poll results, pointing out that surveys in 2002 wrongly predicted a wider victory margin for opponents. (Forty-five percent of voters that year favored the repeal.) And while her group cannot compete with the opposition in terms of publicity, she said, reports of government waste are a potent tool for persuading voters, and there are plenty to be found. 
 The global economic crisis and the instability of the stock market can only help the measure's chances, too, Ms. Howell said.
 ''That is going to encourage people to hang on to the money they earn,'' she said, ''because they will need it when credit lines dry up.'' 
 Mr. Gruman of the Coalition for Our Communities acknowledged that voters were angry and insecure this election season, but said his group was benefiting from ''a tremendous number of volunteers'' who were spreading the word about the proposal's flaws. They include members of churches and synagogues around the state, as well as community volunteers who signed up to help through the coalition's Web site.
 Ms. Howell's group says that repealing the income tax would save the average taxpayer about $3,600 a year, but opponents say that property and sales taxes will increase as a result.
 ''There is a greater awareness now than in 2002 that it would have serious consequences,'' said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a business-sponsored watchdog group that opposes the measure. ''I'm heartened by the polls, but I'm operating as if it's as close as I feared it would be.''
 Both sides agree that the question is mobilizing voters in Massachusetts, a heavily Democratic state that is considered safe for Senator Barack Obama in the presidential race. 
 And two other questions on the ballot -- whether to ban dog racing and ease criminal penalties for marijuana possession -- are not attracting nearly as much attention.
 ''Even though people are very excited about the presidential election,'' Mr. Gruman said, ''they realize the big thing in Massachusetts is this question. The presidential race is not in doubt here, and this will affect people the most profoundly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); STATISTICS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); CAMPUS SECURITY (67%); GOVERNORS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1236 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Durable-Goods Orders Rose in September

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Business investment rose in September, with a surge in orders for aircraft and transportation equipment offsetting declines in the communications industry. But economists were quick to point out that reduced credit could cause more pain ahead. 
 Over all, orders for durable goods -- considered a useful, if volatile, gauge for longer-term business spending -- were 0.8 percent higher in September than August, the fourth increase in five months. Orders for August were revised lower, to minus 5.5 percent, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday. 
 The biggest gains came in a 30 percent surge in orders for civilian aircraft, a figure that is highly volatile from month to month. But businesses also invested in transportation equipment, including motor vehicle-related parts, capital goods, electronic equipment and heavy machinery.
 Those gains appeared to be encouraging for the manufacturing industry, which has suffered from a decline in export orders as the dollar strengthens against foreign currencies.
 Still, a benchmark gauge for business spending declined 1.4 percent, adding to a 2.2 percent decline in August. This gauge measures orders of civilian capital goods outside of aircraft. 
 ''With consumer spending shutting down, exports fading and credit hard to come by, why would any business increase orders now?,'' Bernard Baumohl, of the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J., wrote in a note. 
 Orders for metal products fell, along with demand for computers, communications equipment and miscellaneous electronics. 
 Outside of transportation, durable goods orders fell 1.1 percent. Excluding military equipment, orders dropped 0.6 percent.
 ''The trend in core capital goods orders is still broadly flat, but we are very nervous about the next few months,'' Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note. 
 And an economist at a major manufacturers' group said that a reduction in consumer spending, spurred by the market declines in October and expectations of a painful recession, could cause more problems for businesses through the end of the year.
 ''The industrial sector is merely reacting to the downturn, it is not leading the recession,'' Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, said in a note.
 ''Capital goods activity is declining because the slack in factories and labor markets means that existing equipment and facilities are not being fully utilized, which negates the need to new buy equipment and build new structures,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); RECESSION (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); DEFENSE ORDERS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1237 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: In the '50s, Land Cruiser Blazed a Trail in the U.S.

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
THE Toyota Land Cruiser might be the sport utility vehicle that never dies.
 The vehicle has already been around for more than five decades, making it one of the longest continuously produced models in the industry, said Sam Butto, a Toyota spokesman who specializes in trucks and S.U.V.'s. And it occupies an honored place in Toyota's history, Mr. Butto said.
 ''In 1958, Land Cruiser saved the company, at least here in the U.S.,'' Mr. Butto said. 
 Toyota entered the American market in 1958, exporting a sedan, called the Toyopet, and the Land Cruiser FJ. The company sold one Land Cruiser that year. But that was just enough to keep the model -- and Toyota's United States plans -- alive. 
 The Toyopet, whose design some considered homely and primitive, flopped. But customer interest grew in the Land Cruiser, which was the only model Toyota sold in the United States until it was joined by a new sedan in the early '60s.
 ''So yes, for a time the Cruiser kept Toyota in business in the U.S.,'' Mr. Butto said. ''In fact, from 1961 through 1965, the Land Cruiser was our best-selling vehicle.'' But the Cruiser is now a niche product, representing only a small fraction of Toyota's sales. 
 Jonathan Ward of Van Nuys, Calif., who collects and customizes Land Cruisers, says he believes he owns that first and only 1958 model, a Land Cruiser FJ25. Mr. Ward said the Land Cruiser line had survived for so long because Toyota had ''remained focused on its core value as a utility vehicle.'' 
 ''Even with all of the luxury content in the modern American models, the backbone of the design still rides on the merits of the vehicle's ability to function in a wide range of environments,'' Mr. Ward said. 
 Before World War II, Toyota, which was making weaving looms and sewing machines, struggled to enter the automobile business. But the war delayed those plans. Afterward, as Japan rebuilt its industrial capability, Toyota returned to the idea of building cars and light trucks. In 1950, the company created a Model BJ prototype based on the Willys jeep.
 From 1951 to 1954 it was available on a made-to-order basis, mostly for police, fire and forestry departments that valued its off-road capability. The name Land Cruiser was first applied to it in 1954, when it became popular enough to be mass produced in Japan for the general public. 
 When it entered the United States market, Toyota marketed the Land Cruiser as the ''Japanese jeep.'' American consumers were skeptical of Toyota's performance claims at first, but the Land Cruiser proved to be durable, Mr. Butto said.
 Land Cruisers of any year, particularly the early ones, have high resale values. For instance, a 1958 20 Series model had a list price of about $3,000. Today, if you could find one, a pristine example might fetch 20 times that -- about the same as the price of a new Land Cruiser, which is in its seventh generation.
 The Land Cruiser has grown along with its pricing. Though it is still about the same height, it is now nearly three feet longer, two feet wider and a ton heavier than the original 1954 model.
 The extra weight can be attributed to a beefier frame, larger axles, sturdier brakes and its 5.7-liter V-8 truck engine and six-speed automatic transmission. 
 Its fuel economy rating of 13 miles per gallon in the city, 17 on the highway, could be considered an obstacle to sales in the United States. But despite spikes in gas prices, this newest iteration of the Land Cruiser has bucked the market's trend away from big, thirsty S.U.V.'s, and it is selling relatively well -- though still in comparatively small numbers.
 Sales for 2008 are up 82 percent over those in 2007. Overseas, where gas often costs more, it is selling even better.
 ''Though the market has shifted in recent years away from truck-based S.U.V.'s -- at least in North America -- Land Cruiser remains very popular in other parts of the world, in a variety of configurations,'' Mr. Butto said. ''There are a large number of Land Cruiser clubs throughout the world filled with thousands of Cruiser devotees.''
 It is especially valued in places where roads are scarce and in poor repair, and infrastructure is spotty -- like parts of Africa, Australia and the Middle East. In such places, the Land Cruiser's fuel consumption and even its price are less important than its off-road prowess, power and reliability.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STILL A CLASSIC: The current Toyota Land Cruiser. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); WORLD WAR II (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1238 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Coupling Delivery Trucks With Hybrid Technology

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
HYBRID systems and delivery trucks would seem to be an ideal partnership. Many hybrids store the energy created when a vehicle slows or brakes and use it later to make the vehicle go. Except for taxis and city buses, few vehicles do as much stop-and-go driving as delivery trucks.
 But a number of factors -- some technical, most financial -- mean that only about 1,000 of the trucks rumbling around American cities delivering soft drinks or lumber are hybrids. Commercial production of such vehicles began less than a year ago, and they are available, at least in North America, from only three companies. 
 ''We are at the same point today with hybrid trucks that passenger cars were 10 years ago,'' said Bill Van Amburg, senior vice president of WestStart-Calstart, a nonprofit technology consulting firm that organizes an annual conference on hybrid trucks.
 The hybrid trucks are sold by Paccar under the Kenworth, Peterbilt marques; International, which is owned by Navistar; and Freightliner, and they are far less ambitious than the passenger cars sold by Toyota and other automakers.
 Unlike hybrid automobiles, most hybrid trucks cannot cruise silently on electric power with their engines shut down because the trucks' air brake systems need consistent diesel power to operate. 
 Instead, most early production models have a system similar to that used by Kenworth. Its hybrids have a modified version of a six-speed automatic transmission that has long been used in trucks. In between the transmission and the drive shaft that powers the rear wheels is a motor-generator. When the truck slows or brakes, this device acts as a generator, reducing the load on conventional brakes and creating electricity to charge a battery.
 When the truck starts moving again, the motor-generator adds power by drawing from the battery, resulting in increased mileage and acceleration.
 The electric motor can provide such a boost, Mr. Van Amburg said, that its performance must be restricted to avoid head-jarring ''jackrabbit starts.''Andy Douglas, national sales manager, specialty markets, for Kenworth, based in Kirkland, Wash., said the system improved fuel consumption by 30 to 50 percent. The catch, however, is that the hybrid models cost 40 to 50 percent more than otherwise identical diesel-only models.
 That means that, at least so far, environmental considerations rather than cost savings have motivated many early buyers, he said.
 ''As soon as they get their hands on these trucks, they put on them, in big letters: 'This is a hybrid,' '' Mr. Douglas said.
 Coca-Cola Enterprises, the soft drink bottler and distributor based in Atlanta, is using 120 Kenworth hybrid delivery trucks and 20 from International throughout North America.
 Despite the vehicles' higher up-front prices, Fred Roselli, a spokesman, said Coca-Cola Enterprises predicted that it would save money over their expected 10-year lifetime. Depending on fuel prices, Mr. Roselli said, the company expected the extra cost of the hybrid trucks to be recouped in three to four years. He said the trucks also cost less to maintain, largely because of reduced wear on their conventional brakes.
 Tax credits have been created to offset the extra cost of hybrids. But Mr. Van Amburg said that because of corporate bookkeeping systems, they have limited value. Few companies, he said, increase their truck purchasing budgets to reflect the tax credits or reduced operating costs. As a result, hybrids remain beyond the reach of many corporate truck fleet buyers.
 In October, at Calstart's hybrid truck show, both Kenworth and International introduced the first hybrid tractor trucks. But both are small models intended mainly for deliveries in cities rather than long-haul highway travel.
 There is considerable debate in the trucking industry about the suitability of hybrid trucks for use in long-distance hauling. 
 While long-haul trucks do most of their traveling at a relatively constant speed, they, of course, occasionally slow down and stop. Harnessing the energy from that, Mr. Van Amburg said, could provide a fuel savings of 7 to 8 percent. While that may seem modest, he said, it might be attractive to some companies if the relative cost of hybrid technology were to fall.
 Mr. Douglas, however, does not expect hybrids to become common on highways. In his view, less expensive options like improved aerodynamics and more efficient heating and air-conditioning systems could achieve similar fuel savings. Moreover, long-haul trucks generally have operational lives of just three to five years, making the economic case for hybrids more difficult.
 But like car owners who have shown renewed interest in fuel-efficient vehicles, Mr. Van Amburg said, the trucking industry has abandoned its bias against alternative drive systems.
 ''When we started our project in 2002,'' he said, ''there wasn't a truck maker in this country who would even use the word hybrid.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); SOFT DRINK WHOLESALERS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); BEVERAGE MFG (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%)

COMPANY: PACCAR INC (90%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (50%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (50%)

TICKER: PCAR (NASDAQ) (90%); CCE (PAR) (50%); CCE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1239 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Sweep From Wall St. Across Region

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
A broad array of businesses across the New York region have begun eliminating jobs by the thousands as the pain of the financial crisis spreads well beyond Wall Street. 
 Companies as varied as Yahoo, American Express, Time Inc. and Swissport Cargo Services at Kennedy International Airport say they are preparing to lay off employees, including online ad sales representatives, magazine editors and baggage handlers, in the coming weeks. 
 Economists and labor-market analysts predict that the cuts will be part of a large wave of pink slips that is expected to drive up the city's unemployment rate and strain the state's unemployment insurance fund. In the week that ended Oct. 11 -- the latest week for which data is available -- New York led all states with an increase of 5,224 first-time unemployment claims.
 Law firms are shrinking and publishing companies, which employ about 54,000 people in the city, announced layoffs of about 880 employees this week. Other service businesses, like consulting, catering and tourism, are almost certain to follow suit, said James Brown, who analyzes the city's job market for the New York State Department of Labor. 
 ''The professional fields are going to feel the impact of falling corporate profits,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We have a lot of firms in professional services and they sell to corporations nationally and internationally. With corporate profits dropping, their business is weakening. I expect them to start losing jobs soon.''
 Those cuts would come on top of the layoffs of tens of thousands on Wall Street, which is in the midst of its most wrenching changes in decades. 
 Despite large cutbacks at some of the city's most venerable banks, city and state unemployment rates have risen only gradually this year, with each holding at 5.8 percent from August to September. But that is expected to change: The number of New Yorkers filing claims for unemployment benefits has been rising at an accelerating pace, in part because layoffs are spreading beyond Wall Street. 
 In the first nine months of this year, about 60,000 New York City residents collected unemployment checks, according to the Labor Department. That was an increase of about 7,000, or 13 percent, from the first nine months of 2007. Financial services accounted for the biggest share of that rise, but every other sector in the economy also saw increases in unemployment claims. The number of unemployed city residents who used to work in the media, for instance, rose by about 20 percent to more than 2,800, according to the department's figures.
 Those numbers did not include the seven employees of Wenner Media, the publisher of Rolling Stone magazine, who were laid off this week, or the 600 jobs that Time Inc. said it planned to eliminate during a reorganization announced on Tuesday. But among them may have been some of the 270 people whose jobs were eliminated in the last three months at McGraw-Hill, which owns BusinessWeek magazine and the Standard & Poor's debt-rating agency.
 The digital media, a bright spot in the Bloomberg administration's efforts to reduce the city's economic dependence on Wall Street, may be the next to scale back. Yahoo, which is based in California but has much of its ad sales force in Manhattan, is preparing to eliminate at least 1,500 jobs before the end of the year, the company announced last week. Analysts predicted that some of those layoffs would be in New York, but Kim Rubey, a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to say how many there would be.
 Kevin P. Ryan, the chief executive of Alleycorp, which owns six start-up online companies, said that even a relatively robust industry like his would have to cut back if the downturn is prolonged. 
 ''Almost every industry's going to be impacted,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There will be less financing available. Already, a lot of conversations about consolidation are happening. I think it's going to happen pretty rapidly.''
 The traditional advertising agencies of Madison Avenue, he said, are due for some significant layoffs because of the faster decline of printed publications. But much of that cutting might be put off until after the busy fourth quarter.
 ''The interesting moment's going to come early next year'' in the advertising and retail businesses, Mr. Ryan said. ''I think a lot of it's going to come in January.''
 The outlook for the metropolitan area has darkened quickly in the last several weeks. Moody's Economy.com, a research firm, raised its projection of job losses in financial services by two-thirds this month, to 100,000 from 60,000, which, it said, would put the region into recession before the end of the year.
 In recent weeks, each new forecast of the fallout has been bleaker than the one before. Two weeks ago, the office of the city comptroller raised its estimate of job losses on Wall Street to 35,000 from 25,000. On Tuesday, Gov. David A. Paterson raised the estimate again, to 45,000, and projected that the state's unemployment rate would climb to 6.5 percent. He also said his administration was projecting that the state would lose 160,000 private sector jobs by the end of next year.
 On Wednesday, Governor Paterson told Congress that the state expected 90,000 laid-off workers who have been out of work for six months to exhaust their 13 weeks of additional emergency benefits by Dec. 31.
 So far, investment banks, brokerage and other securities firms have accounted for almost all of the jobs lost in financial services in the city. But that, too, is about to change. American Express, the giant credit card company, has been hinting that a large layoff would be part of a restructuring plan that it expects to unveil in the next few weeks. A spokeswoman for the company, which is based in Lower Manhattan, declined to say how many of the layoffs would be in the metropolitan area.
 While the number of jobs in all professional services in the city was still higher last month than it had been a year before, the legal business is smaller than it was a year ago, Mr. Brown said. Law firms are suffering from the sharp drop in transactions on Wall Street, as well as the softening real estate market, Mr. Brown said.
 Heller Ehrman, a firm with a big presence in Manhattan (with Lehman Brothers as a client), went out of business this month. This week, the managing partners of Thelen, a law firm with about 300 employees in New York, recommended that the firm be dissolved by the end of next month. A spokesman said approval of the shutdown was a ''formality.''
 At Kennedy International, Swissport is considering eliminating 97 of 128 jobs in its baggage-handling operation by the end of next month because of the impact of the slowing economy on airline traffic, according to documents filed with the state labor department. Swissport, which is based in Zurich, handles luggage for several airlines at Kennedy, said Stephan Beerli, a spokesman for the company. Mr. Beerli declined to discuss details of the layoff plan, saying that no ''official'' notice had been given to employees.
 ''We are right now in a phase where everybody's preparing contingency plans,'' Mr. Beerli said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: New York City unemployment recipients for the first nine months of 2007 and 2008. (Source: New York State Department of Labor) (pg.A35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); AIRPORTS (72%); SALES FORCE (71%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (71%); LAWYERS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (57%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (85%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (50%); WENNER MEDIA LLC (50%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: JANN WENNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1240 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed's Statement on Rates

 BODY:
Following is the full text of Wednesday's statement by the Federal Reserve announcing it was lowering interest rates by a half-point, to 1 percent.
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 50 basis points to 1 percent. 
 The pace of economic activity appears to have slowed markedly, owing importantly to a decline in consumer expenditures. Business equipment spending and industrial production have weakened in recent months, and slowing economic activity in many foreign economies is damping the prospects for United States exports. Moreover, the intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and businesses to obtain credit. 
 In light of the declines in the prices of energy and other commodities and the weaker prospects for economic activity, the committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters to levels consistent with price stability.
 Recent policy actions, including today's rate reduction, coordinated interest rate cuts by central banks, extraordinary liquidity measures and official steps to strengthen financial systems should help over time to improve credit conditions and promote a return to moderate economic growth. Nevertheless, downside risks to growth remain. The committee will monitor economic and financial developments carefully and will act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Elizabeth A. Duke; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Charles I. Plosser; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh.
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 50-basis-point decrease in the discount rate, to 1 1/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); APPROVALS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: KEVIN WARSH (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1241 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Gold In Target's Real Estate

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Financial engineering may have fallen into ill repute in Washington and much of the country, but let no one imagine that Wall Street has given up. 
 William Ackman, the activist investor and hedge-fund manager, proffered an idea on Wednesday that he claimed was worth billions. He wants Target Corporation, the large discount chain, to sell the land underneath its stores to a new unit set up for the purpose. Target, he proposes, would pay rent to the spinoff, with existing Target shareholders gaining stakes in the new real estate business.
 The supposed benefit? Mr. Ackman foresees a big increase in the total value the stock market would attach to a sliced-up Target, as much as 74 percent by his reckoning. That would include a payday of several billion dollars for Mr. Ackman's hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital Management, which owns nearly 10 percent of Target. 
 The potential cost? According to several analysts and Target itself, the complicated new setup would hurt Target's credit rating and thereby raise its cost of borrowing, perhaps undermining the company's ability to survive the economic downturn. And the company believes a sliced-and-diced Target would ultimately have less control over its stores, the lifeblood of the business.
 The plan might lead to transitory gains in the short run, but in the long run, ''the retailer would be on much shakier ground, so to speak,'' wrote Carol Levenson, director of research for Gimme Credit, a bond research firm. In an e-mail message, she added that ''with overleveraged retailers going under right and left, and inhospitable lending and commercial paper markets,'' the timing of such a transaction could not be worse. 
 Maneuvers like the one Mr. Ackman suggested Wednesday are the latest variation on the Wall Street notion that the parts of a company may be worth more than the whole. Wall Street sees chopping such a company up as ''unlocking value.'' But in some recent cases, activist investors who pushed such deals through have been accused of wrecking the companies.
 For example, Mervyn's, the bankrupt department store chain, is suing its onetime private equity owners on grounds that they crippled the company by separating the chain's valuable real estate from its retail operations. 
 Mr. Ackman has included features in his plan meant to avoid some of the worst problems of previous deals. In particular, he proposed that Target spin off only the land on which its stores sit, retaining long-term leases on the stores themselves. 
 But several analysts were left scratching their heads after he presented his proposal to investors in Manhattan on Wednesday. They could not figure out if he had come up with a truly novel idea or just some financial manipulation that would end badly.
 Deborah Weinswig, a retail equity analyst with Citigroup, said Mr. Ackman's presentation answered a fundamental concern that retailers always had when they contemplate a real estate spinoff: Will the company retain adequate control of its buildings? But, she added: ''In this kind of environment, I don't know if anyone wants to tamper with or wants to risk a credit-rating downgrade.'' 
 Target, which operates 1,684 stores, owns the majority of its real estate and considers it a significant asset that strengthens its balance sheet and financing options in difficult economic times. 
 ''For a retailer to have more control of their destiny in today's environment is critical,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for NPD Group. Mr. Ackman said his proposal was in the interest of all Target shareholders. Noting that Target owns the highest percentage of its real estate compared with other big-box retailers, he said the transaction would unlock the value of that real estate, which he said he thought had not been reflected in the company's stock price. 
 In Mr. Ackman's proposal, Target would retain control of the buildings through 75-year leases. He argued that the long leases offer ''bondlike stability.'' 
 ''It's a very creative and innovative way to do this,'' said David Bassuk, managing director in the retail performance improvement practice of AlixPartners. 
 Indeed, industry experts in reorganization and in mergers and acquisitions said financial engineering was likely to happen even more now, given the gloomy economy. 
 ''These conversations are going on in every single board room in every single C.E.O. suite in this country,'' said Claire Gruppo, managing director of Gruppo, Levey & Company. '' People are scrambling to be as creative as possible, to look at ways that they can generate cash.'' 
 ''Believe me,'' she added, ''this is all anyone is thinking about.'' 
 Target, along with an outside adviser, Goldman Sachs, has been listening to Mr. Ackman's ideas since May, and has put several of them into effect, such as selling part of Target's credit card business to JPMorgan Chase for $3.6 billion. The retailer said that it would evaluate Mr. Ackman's proposal.
 Target has not been faring as well in the downturn as its competitors, Wal-Mart Stores and BJ's Wholesale Club. But many analysts say they think it is a well-managed company whose problems are a reflection of the overall retail environment -- in which consumers are not buying the sorts of cheap-chic, discretionary items Target is known for. 
 ''I think that they'll weather the tough retail environment,'' Jason Asaeda, an analyst with Standard & Poor's equity research, said. ''The company's still growing and they are investing in new brands.'' 
 Ms. Weinswig, who has a sell rating on the company's shares, said she had been worried about Target's credit card operations, uninspiring women's clothing in the stores and the economic climate, which favors a low-price retailer like Wal-Mart. 
 Whether Target or its investors will embrace Mr. Ackman's proposal remains to be seen. Either way, he has perhaps already accomplished his goal.
 Over the last two days, as buzz about Mr. Ackman's plan focused Wall Street's attention on the company, its shares rose by 25 percent (closing Wednesday at $40.72), and the total market value of Target increased by more than $6 billion. 
 The short-run gain to Mr. Ackman's hedge fund just for presenting his idea? Roughly $600 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BONDS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (59%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (59%); C (BMV) (59%); 8710 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1242 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: New Fans for the Michelangelo of the Muscle Car

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
TO call Art Fitzpatrick an automobile illustrator is to leave half of the canvas blank. For decades, Mr. Fitzpatrick helped sell cars, most notably Buicks and Pontiacs, by pitching a carefree lifestyle in handsome magazine advertisements.
 A 1959 Pontiac Bonneville was parked in front of the Hotel Ritz Madrid. A 1967 GTO was backed up to a row of surfboards. A 1971 Firebird lounged near snowy slopes. In many paintings, the male driver had a female companion, and both were smiling.
 The splashy four-color advertisements, which appeared in publications like Life, Look and The Saturday Evening Post, emphasized the rakish, romantic sleekness of these powerful, all-American automobiles, part of the genre known as muscle cars. 
 ''The whole overtone of the illustrations and the copy was about performance,'' said Jim Wangers, who worked for McManus, John & Adams, the Detroit advertising agency that assembled the ''Wide Track Pontiac'' campaign, which made its debut in 1959. 
 The work done by Mr. Fitzpatrick and Van Kaufman, his partner in the studio, became famous, though few outside the automobile and advertising industries knew what ''AF'' and ''VK'' stood for at the bottom of the illustrations. But that would change.
 Mr. Wangers became involved with Pontiac and GTO collectors' clubs in the last decade, and he discovered that the 285 Pontiac advertisements by the team known as Fitz and Van were as popular as ever. For collectors, the illustrations represented an era.
 Mr. Kaufman died in 1995, but Mr. Wangers began to take Mr. Fitzpatrick to car shows and collectors' club meetings, where people let him know that those advertisements had sold them on Pontiacs.
 ''They will come to me and specifically describe a Pontiac ad that sticks out in their memory,'' Mr. Fitzpatrick said by telephone from his home in Carlsbad, Calif. ''They say, 'I looked at that ad, and I wanted to be in that car, in that place, with that gal on my arm.' ''
 He has, in fact, become a celebrity among a legion of new muscle-car fans. Mr. Fitzpatrick, who will turn 90 on Nov. 24, self-deprecatingly refers to himself as a ''retread,'' but he enjoys the conversations that his artwork has jump-started.
 ''I constantly hear from guys who say, 'My father had one of those,' '' he said, laughing. ''Now, I'm hearing more people say, 'My grandfather had one of those.' ''
 Fans have clamored for new work. Mr. Fitzpatrick created two lines of stamps for the United States Postal Service -- the second, America on the Move: '50s Fins and Chrome, went on sale Oct. 3. In addition, Mr. Fitzpatrick and Mr. Wangers collaborated on a book, ''Pontiac . . . Pizazz!'' 
 ''He's been able to put fresh images -- fresh as they may be -- in front of enthusiasts who may not have even been born when these cars first came out,'' said Dave Anderson, who published the book, which costs $34.95 at GeeTOtiger.com and bentleypublishers.com, as well as online booksellers like Amazon.
 The style of the original Fitz and Van advertisements is as much of a throwback as the automobiles. Mr. Fitzpatrick and Mr. Kaufman were freer to exaggerate (Mr. Fitzpatrick says ''enhance'') the width of these already low-slung cars.
 ''Everybody thought my versions of the car looked more accurate than photographs of the car,'' Mr. Fitzpatrick said.
 The illustrations helped Pontiac promote how these cars, trimmed with glinting chrome, were capable of hugging the road. The advertisements helped Pontiac quadruple its sales from 1958 to 1969 and claim a larger slice of American pop culture, Mr. Wangers said.
 Buck Wilkin, the lead singer of Ronny & the Daytonas, a surf rock band that sounded like the Beach Boys, wrote a hit song about the GTO in 1964. The Monkees drove a bright red GTO convertible called the Monkeemobile in their mid-1960s television series. 
 ''Gas mileage was not a terribly important and significant thing,'' Mr. Wangers, 82, said of the muscle-car era.
 Times changed, and attention to fuel economy, as well as truth in advertising, took precedence. The Fitz and Van style was essentially obsolete by 1971, and Mr. Fitzpatrick moved to California from Greenwich, Conn., to pursue a career in real estate.
 His studio went largely unused until he was asked to show his work in the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, an auto show in California, and at the Art Center College of Design, in Pasadena, which is known for its transportation design program.
 ''He kept finding things to get in the way,'' said his wife, Betty, to whom he has been married for 26 years.
 She, too, had seen his work during the Pontiac era and thought it was extraordinary, but she had not known who had done it until they met. Now she is encouraging him to create illustrations of classic automobiles. ''It's been a godsend; it really has,'' his wife said of his reborn career. ''He needs to do that detailed, technical stuff.''
 Said Mr. Wangers, ''I think iconic is a beautiful word to describe him.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMERICAN POWER: The paintings of Art Fitzpatrick, above, celebrate the pizazz of American cars, particularly Pontiacs
his portrait of a 1959 Pontiac Catalina, left, hangs in his home in California.
RENEWED INTEREST: Mr. Fitzpatrick created the '50s Fins and Chrome stamps issued earlier this month. His fans have clamored for new work from him.
PERFORMANCE ART: A painting of a 1954 Kaiser Darrin on a stamp issued in 2005. The art emphasized the rakish, romantic sleekness of American cars.
COMING AND GOING: The 1971 Pontiac Trans Am, as a pop culture icon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); CELEBRITIES (69%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1243 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: A Hip-Hop Performance Only a Band Can Deliver

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
In the history of hip-hop, for both practical and aesthetic reasons, the music started as recordings. Beats and hooks on vinyl were transformed by disc jockeys, who set off the experimentation and technological escalation that make most current hip-hop a computerized playground of programmed beats and samples -- some repetitious, many ingenious. 
 But there are some things that only live musicians can do onstage, and the Roots -- the long-running Philadelphia hip-hop band -- were proud to flaunt them during their headlining set at Roseland on Tuesday night. They shared the bill with Gym Class Heroes, another group that backs rapping with a live band. (Estelle, the opening act, returned to sing with both bands.) 
 In song after song, the Roots demonstrated the kind of dynamics and speed shifts that can't be duplicated with a volume knob or a tempo control. Their set started with their sousaphone player, Damon Bryson (a k a Tuba Gooding Jr.) parading onstage with a riff, varied every time he played it, soon backed up by a snappy New Orleans second-line beat from Ahmir Thompson, better known as ?uestlove, on drums, and then the whole band. 
 They wrapped a jazzy jam around the songs ''Rising Up'' and ''Rising Down,'' from the Roots' most recent album, ''Rising Down'' (Def Jam), changing attack for a guest verse by the rapper Dice Raw. Through the set, Black Thought, the lead rapper, unpredictably shifted his delivery from declaration to whisper, slowing down and speeding up, with the band following every swerve. There were other guests later: Mos Def and Q-Tip, who performed his own song ''Getting Up.'' 
 The Roots' flexibility signified both solidarity and openness: the teamwork within the band, its connections to styles from rock to reggae to swing, and its determination to speak to every listener's tastes, from old-school hip-hop to heavy-metal shredding from the guitarist Kirk Douglas. 
 Black Thought's hyper-articulate rhymes brag (accurately) about his skills, touch down in his home neighborhood in Philadelphia and confront broad political questions from global warming to financial crisis. ''Criminal,'' a song from ''Rising Down'' with a Nigerian-style Afrobeat groove, had new lyrics about the stock market crash and a chant naming George W. Bush, John McCain, Sarah Palin and the ''first dude'' as criminals. 
 But politics is just one thing swept up in the Roots' grooves. The physical, nondigital presence of a working band onstage brings a visceral joy, and the Roots revel in their stamina. At the end of their set, the tireless Black Thought rocketed into a version of an old hip-hop song: ''Men at Work'' by Kool G. Rap and D.J. Polo. ''Let the record spin,'' he rapped, without a turntable in sight. 
 Gym Class Heroes come up with a different mixture of rap and band. Formed by high school friends upstate in Geneva, N.Y., they're cheerfully undecided among hip-hop, rock and reggae. The lead vocalist, Travis McCoy, raps most of the time but also sings, and many of the band's newer songs are constructed like neat pop or new wave tunes, with pop choruses and touches of the Beatles. 
 Among the band's mentors are the pop-punk standard bearers Fall Out Boy, whose singer, Patrick Stump, produced much of the Gym Class Heroes' new album, ''The Quilt'' (Decaydance/ Fueled by Ramen). ''Taxi Driver,'' the set's penultimate song, assembled the story of a romance from band names like Bright Eyes and At the Drive-In. 
 Where the Roots' concerns are global, Mr. McCoy's are local and personal: his own ambitions and, even more often, what's going on with his girlfriends, in go-rounds of affection and betrayal. He's genial about love's ups and downs; sometimes it's her fault, sometimes it's his because he ''can't keep my hands out of the cookie jar.'' Either way, the music comes up bouncy and eager to please.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, foreground, Kirk Douglas, Damon Bryson and Owen Biddle of the Roots playing a triple bill at Roseland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (92%); RAP MUSIC (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (60%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1244 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Move Over, My Pretty, Ugly Is Here

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
IT would be close to impossible to tally all the magazine articles, scholarly treatises and philosophical works, reality shows and Internet sites, college courses, lectures and books devoted to the subject of beauty. 
 But what about ugliness? 
 It is an awkward topic, a wretched concept, really, and, of course, a terrible insult when flung in your direction. 
 When a woman once told Winston Churchill he was drunk, he is said to have replied: ''And you, madam, are ugly. But I shall be sober tomorrow, whereas you will still be ugly.''
 Ugliness is associated with evil and fear, with villains and monsters: the Wicked Witch of the West, Freddy Krueger and Harry Potter's arch-meanie, Lord Voldemort, with his veiny skull, creepy slits in his nose for nostrils and rotten teeth. 
 There are the gentle souls, too, plagued through no fault of their own by their disturbing appearance: Dr. Frankenstein's monster, the Elephant Man and Shrek, who is ugly and green but in a cute way. 
 Ugliness has recently emerged as a serious subject of study and academic interest unto itself, in some small part because of the success of television's ''Ugly Betty,'' which ABC promoted with a ''Be Ugly'' campaign stressing self-esteem for girls and young women. Sociologists, writers, lawyers and economists have begun to examine ugliness, suggesting that the subject has been marginalized in history and that discrimination against the unattractive, while difficult to document or prevent, is a quiet but widespread injustice. 
 Researchers who have tried to measure appearance discrimination, or ''uglyism'' and ''looksism,'' and the impact of what they call the ''beauty premium'' and the ''plainness penalty'' on income, say that the time has come for ugly to peek out from beauty's shadow. 
 ''It hasn't been politically correct to talk about uglyism,'' said Anthony Synnott, a professor of sociology at Concordia University in Montreal, who is publishing a paper next month on ugliness. ''But there's no reason for us to think that beautiful people are actually good and ugly people evil, yet we do.'' 
 One pioneering study, ''Beauty and the Labor Market,''; published in the American Economic Review in 1994, estimated that unattractive men and women earn five to 10 percent less than those considered attractive or beautiful, and that less attractive women marry men with less money. 
 Another study, in 2005, determined that the discrimination was consistent across occupations, so that even a computer programmer buried behind a desk could suffer from the plainness penalty. 
 ''People who are physically attractive might develop better communication skills because the tendency is that from an early age they get more attention from all their caregivers, including their own mothers onward,'' said Tanya S. Rosenblat, an associate professor of economics at Iowa State University, and an author of the 2005 study, ''Why Beauty Matters,'' published in the American Economic Review. The study tested how volunteers, in the role of employers, rated the ability of ''employees'' to complete computer mazes. The volunteers predicted that the more attractive employees could complete more of the mazes. 
 The study authors concluded that because attractiveness has no bearing on the ability to complete computer mazes -- unlike a job in which beauty may be an occupational asset like retail sales -- discrimination based on looks occurs across occupations. 
 Few laws prohibit employment discrimination based on lack of attractiveness, although some plaintiffs have pursued cases under broader statutes: a Vermont chambermaid who was missing her front teeth and was fired won a case against her employer when in 1992 the State Supreme Court upheld her suit, ruling that she was protected by the state's Fair Employment Practices Act.
 Some cities, including Washington, San Francisco and Santa Cruz, Calif., have passed ordinances banning discrimination based on looks. But legal action on behalf of the unattractive can be complicated. 
 ''One pitfall is the distinction between people's identities as members of a race or a religious group or gender versus as a member of a group of ugly people,'' said Sherry F. Colb, a law professor at Cornell. ''Because of successful identity politics, people have come to identify profoundly with other kinds of groups -- 'I am a Jew,' or 'a French person.' But it's not likely with 'I am an ugly person and let's have a meeting of all ugly people.' Most people in general would want to disclaim membership. It's like declaring yourself a member of the clueless.'' 
 Defining ugliness is difficult. Beyond a predictable visceral response to cartoon ogres or Halloween witches, is there any agreement on what makes someone or something ugly? Warts and scars? Hook noses and beady eyes? Social scientists investigating beauty have found that people across age groups, races and cultures tend to agree on what constitutes facial attraction; but there is no corresponding body of study that measures homeliness. Dr. Synnott of Concordia University, who has written and taught courses on beauty for more than a decade, was recently contacted by an online journal to contribute another article on the topic. But he suggested instead that he write about the neglected topic of ugliness. 
 In his article, ''Ugliness, Visibility and the Invisible Prejudice,'' to appear next month in the first issue Glimpses Journal, Dr. Synnott notes that judgments about appearance imply values about good and evil -- the ''halo-horns effect.'' These conclusions are ''false, unfair, dangerous and silly; yet it is perpetuated by our language, literature, media, many philosophers and our simple binary perspectives,'' Dr. Synnott writes in his paper. Many colloquialisms, like ''beauty is only skin deep,'' suggest that there is collective acknowledgment that the fixation on physical beauty is superficial,'' Dr. Synnott writes. 
 By contrast, the phrase ''ugliness is only skin deep,'' is rarely heard, Dr. Synnott said, adding that the booming cosmetic surgery industry underscores the plainness prejudice.
 ''Beautiful people are considered to be more intelligent, sexier, more trustworthy and they have more partners,'' Dr. Synnott said. ''And this implies that ugly people are assumed to be less trustworthy and less intelligent.''
 Last year, the Italian novelist and critic Umberto Eco published ''On Ugliness,'' a 450-page book largely devoted to ugliness in art. 
 ''In every century, philosophers and artists have supplied definitions of beauty, and thanks to their works it is possible to reconstruct a history of aesthetic ideas over time,'' the author writes in his introduction. ''But this did not happen with ugliness. Most of the time it was defined as the opposite of beauty but almost no one ever devoted a treatise of any length to ugliness, which was relegated to passing mentions in marginal works.''
 In ''On Ugliness,'' Mr. Eco addresses the fascination in painting, sculpture, poetry and literature with the grotesque and disgusting, chronicling formulations of ugliness from Plato to punk rock. His subjects include witches and monsters, as well as ''the Avant-Garde and the triumph of ugliness,'' in which he points out that the general public was once scandalized by the deformed images of women in Picasso's paintings and other art works, but eventually they gained universal acceptance.
 ''What will be appreciated tomorrow as great art could seem distasteful today,'' Mr. Ecowrites. 
 The popularity of ''Ugly Betty,'' which made its debut in 2006, has spawned a wide conversation about whether the show portends a greater tolerance in society for the unattractive. ABC's ''Be Ugly'' campaign last year, urged women and girls to ''Be real, be smart, be passionate, be true to yourself and be ugly.''
 More recently, the producers of ''Shrek the Musical,'' which is coming to Broadway, adopted another up-with-homely tagline, ''Bringing Ugly Back.'' 
 Researching the phenomenon of ''Ugly Betty,'' Madeleine Shufeldt Esch, an adjunct assistant professor in communications at Tulane, contributed a paper, ''Ugly Is the New Beautiful,'' to a meeting of the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Media. 
 ''The show's willingness to challenge conventional notions of beauty has been championed by audiences and television critics,'' Ms. Esch wrote. ''It has been pegged as part of a larger shift away from the unreal perfection of stick-thin and airbrushed models and the fashion fetishism of the 'Sex and the City' set.'' 
 ''Anytime that there are images that show diversity of acceptable appearances, that's a positive thing,'' Ms. Esch said. ''Even if Betty isn't what we could call ugly, by any objective standard.''
 Indeed, the show's star, America Ferrara, is universally considered attractive. She makes a Cinderella transformation from a frizzy-haired character with braces and too-tight clothing into a conventional Hollywood beauty whenever she appears on a red carpet or magazine cover. 
 For this reason, some critics have labeled the ''Be Ugly'' campaign as a marketing ploy, and they argue that the show has done little to increase acceptance of the homely. On the contrary, American society continues to move aggressively in the opposite direction, critics say, placing an ever-higher importance on beauty. 
 Dr. Synnott, among others, attributed the growth of the $13 billion cosmetic-surgery industry, in part, to a deep and widely held fear of ugliness. The distaste is reinforced by the increasing possibility of altering the appearance of one's face and body through medicine, hygiene and nutrition. A ceaseless stream of mass media imagery extols physical perfection, they say.
 Dr. Synnott, Ms. Esch and others said that despite growing attention to discrimination based on appearances, the majority of messages in society continue to shout, in essence, ''Don't be ugly.''
 ''I think there was a brief ugly moment,'' Ms. Esch said. ''But it may have been a passing fancy.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 30 about new public attitudes toward ugliness misstated the name of an online journal that published the article ''Ugliness: Visibility and the Invisible Prejudice,'' by Anthony Synnott, a sociology professor at Concordia University in Montreal. It is Glimpse Journal, not Glimpses Journal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT COLLECTION)
EYE OF THE BEHOLDER: Depictions of ugliness, clockwise from above: ''Caricature'' by Bartolomeo Passerotti
America Ferrera from ''Ugly Betty''
Boris Karloff from ''Frankenstein''
and Brian d'Arcy James in ''Shrek the Musical.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE, BARTOLOMEO PASSEROTTI/RIZZOLI NEW YORK, 2007
ABC/DEAN HENDLER
AP PHOTO/UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOME ENTERTAINMENT
 AP PHOTO/DREAMWORKS THEATRICALS, ANDREW ECCLES)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1245 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words

 BODY:
PROJECT RUNWAY Many new airport developments that broke ground over the last decade are now being completed, but the timing was off as airlines are grounding planes and cutting flights because of high oil prices and the weakening economy. 
 RATE CUT The Federal Reserve lowered its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, as policy makers tried to fend off what could be the worst economic downturn in decades.[A1.]
 SHORTFALL Analysts are asking how the American International Group is rapidly burning through a $123 billion emergency line of credit provided by the Federal Reserve. [B1.]
 PAY INQUIRY The New York attorney general has expanded his investigation of bonus payments to Wall Street executives whose banking companies are receiving federal support. [B1.]
 Goldman Sachs named 94 new partners, but it is unlikely that they will see the multimillion-dollar paydays of yore. [B5.]
 UNLOCKING VALUE An activist investor suggested that the Target Corporation should spin off its land, but some analysts said the timing of such a transaction could not be worse. [B1.]
 ON THE ROAD AGAIN With gasoline prices falling drastically in recent weeks, some drivers are returning to their old ways. [B1.]
 NEW OPTIONS Research In Motion is introducing radically different BlackBerry models, including a luxury design and it first clamshell model. State of the Art: David Pogue. 
 COME TOGETHER The Beatles are said to be near an arrangement to license its songs to MTV Networks for use in the popular Rock Band video game. [B3.]
 RETURN TO ORIGINS Howard D. Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks, has hired back one of the authors of Starbucks's original success: Arthur Rubinfeld, who is guiding a renovation of its stores and rebooting expansion on urban markets. [B3.]
 G.M. SALES DROP General Motors said that reduced demand pushed its third-quarter global sales down 11.4 percent, meaning it may fall behind Toyota as the No. 1 automaker. [B3.]
 GLOBAL EFFORT The International Monetary Fund and the Federal Reserve coordinated their efforts to restore confidence in emerging markets. [B4.]
 INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS Business executives and state lawmakers came to Washington to press for billions of dollars for public works projects and help for struggling states. [B4.]
 SAFE AS HOUSES With a little skill, even nonengineers can add a security system to their homes. Basics. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); BONUS PAY (69%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); POP & ROCK (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (57%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); MTV NETWORKS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (56%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1246 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Cars; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Deals Are Plentiful (But Bring Good Credit)

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
CAR dealerships have been lonely places this fall, with many customers driven away by the economic tsunami of 2008. Sales have plummeted, and no one knows when these customers will be back.
 ''Because of all the uncertainty, consumers are understandably reluctant about plunging into a big-ticket purchase right now,'' said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com.
 At Valencia Acura in Valencia, Calif., Cheri Fleming, the owner, has witnessed something she has never seen before because of that fear. Customers come in, negotiate a price and even get so far as to allow the dealer to help procure a loan, and then ''a lot of times, they just get up and leave.'' 
 ''Consumer confidence is crushed,'' Ms. Fleming said. 
 Showrooms are not completely empty, of course. Now is a good time to buy a car -- there are plenty of bargains around, as dealers make way for the 2009 models by offering rebates and other incentives to move the 2008 models off the lots. 
 But unless you pay in full with cash, you may find that the game has changed. Many lenders are tightening their standards, and as a result, customers with a so-so credit history will pay more for a loan, while those with poor ratings will find themselves shut out. Loan lengths are getting shorter and amounts are getting smaller; even the best customers may be required to make a larger down payment.
 If you are unsure of your credit situation, don't bother to visit showrooms, said Tom Quinn, vice president at the scoring division of Fair Isaac, the company that developed the widely used credit scoring system known as FICO. Obtain a credit report first and learn your FICO score, he said. People with scores of 700 and above are considered prime customers.
 So far, said Art Spinella of CNW Marketing Research of Bandon, Ore., prime customers are able to obtain a loan without a problem. Customers who are near prime, with scores of 600 to 700, can find one with tougher terms. But subprime customers, those with scores below 550, are not getting loans this fall, he said.
 To raise a score, Mr. Quinn said, pay bills on time, pay off balances, fix errors in your credit report, and do not take on new credit. With the holidays approaching, he added, do not succumb to the temptation of obtaining a store credit card just for the 10 percent discount off your purchase.
 ''Shop for the best rate, be prepared and understand different rates so you are in control when you visit the dealer,'' Mr. Quinn said. FICO scores are not affected by rate shopping, he added. 
 Approval rates on loans this fall are about 60 percent, down from about 80 percent last fall, Mr. Spinella said. The minimum credit score required for the very best rate was 786 at the end of September, according to CNW, up from 741 a year ago.
 GMAC Financial Services will not even lend money right now to those who do not have a score of 700 or above. And the company is increasing the interest rate it charges and decreasing the length of its contracts to 60 months from 72.
 Other lenders have placed restrictions on lending, Mr. Quinn said, even to people who have good credit.
 Mr. McBride of Bankrate added: ''Here's what's really important for consumers. You have to bring more than a smile to the table. You need a down payment. It doesn't matter how great your credit is.'' 
 Expect to put about 10 percent down in cash. The average is $3,100 this year versus $2,500 last fall, according to Jesse Toprak, senior analyst at Edmunds.com, an auto research Web site. 
 Still, it is not all gloom and doom out there for car buyers looking for loans. 
 General Motors, in an effort to reach customers who cannot qualify for a GMAC loan, is reminding them in a new advertising campaign that they can obtain loans from other lenders through G.M. dealers.
 Meanwhile, other lenders are more upbeat about their prospects. George Borst, chief executive of Toyota Financial Services, said: ''In this market, we have actually been able to expand our lending to buyers. We have been very active in leasing, and our approval rate on prime customers remains well over 90 percent.''
 Car buyers who are financing through a credit union are also on good footing, according to Steven W. Rick, senior economist for the Credit Union National Association, a trade group for credit unions, based in Madison, Wis.
 While banks are tightening standards and are not as willing to lend because of the subprime crisis, he said, this is not true of credit unions. There are more than 8,000 credit unions, which accept members through work and community ties, in the United States. ''We didn't have the losses,'' Mr. Rick said. ''We don't need to hoard credit.''
 More members, he said, are taking advantage of credit union loans to finance used vehicles rather than new ones.
 For consumers who must have a new car, the good news is that automakers are likely to continue using incentives to clear inventory well into next year, said Mr. Toprak of Edmunds.com. The incentives ''are at the highest we've seen,'' he said. The industry average for incentives in September was $2,901 per vehicle sold. Last year it was $2,357. 
 Cash rebates have increased as well, to $1,613 in September, from $1,312 a year earlier, according to Edmunds.
 Incentives vary widely, depending on the vehicle, Mr. Toprak added. Trucks and S.U.V.'s are offering the best deals, but consumers shopping for fuel-efficient cars can also get a discount.
 Once the smoke clears, however, the best deals will likely taper off, said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
 Pent-up demand will be satisfied as consumers take a more rational approach to car-buying, he explained, while costs will be reduced sharply and capacity will meet demand, not exceed it. At that point, he said, manufacturers will have pricing power again. 
 ''It is an extremely delicate period right now'' for automakers, Mr. Cole said, because of the lack of cash flow. But those that survive the crisis will reap the rewards, he said. ''It's like swimming across a river that becomes wider and deeper, but the pot of gold is also getting bigger -- if you get to the other side.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAKE YOUR PICK: Car lots are full of bargains, but mostly for creditworthy consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); SALES REBATES (79%); SALES FINANCING (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (67%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (85%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1247 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Historical works of art and architectural imagery from the 18th and 19th centuries that Herbert Mitchell acquired for Columbia University and donated to the Metropolitan Museum. A look at a few of the fine reproductions of stereographs, daguerreotypes, calotypes, lithographs and engravings in his collection. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 Opinion
 CAMPAIGN STOPS The Element of Surprise
 According to Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center, the polls show that Barack Obama is ahead, but you can't rule out the unexpected.
 nytimes.com/campaignstops
 TIMOTHY EGAN
 Hang 'em High
 After the election, any sense of a new beginning will have to include a reckoning on Wall Street.
 nytimes.com/egan
 RECIPES FOR HEALTH: 
 Mushrooms
 Mushrooms are low in calories and packed with nutrients. If they dry out, don't throw them away, writes Martha Rose Shulman. They reconstitute. While they won't look as pretty or as firm, they'll cook up fine.
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 SLIDESHOW: VOTING EARLY
 Voters are casting their ballots in grocery stores in Nevada, at drive-throughs in California, before church in Ohio or at a library in Florida. The results are in: Americans love early voting.
 nytimes.com/politics
 Economix Inside the Fed Room
 Bob McTeer, former chief of the Dallas Fed, describes what it is like to be in the room with the Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets interest rates.
 nytimes.com/economix
 AUDIO: TECHTALK
 This week, a celebration of the Day of the Dead by remembering past technologies, including some that paved the way for today's gear; the tech term ''Legacy devices;'' and a look at a new product that promises a 3D Web experience.
 nytimes.com/techtalk
 Dot Earth A 1979 Climate Warning
 Imagine what might have happened if the government had taken bold action in response to a message scientists conveyed about ''the carbon dioxide problem'' nearly 30 years ago.
 nytimes.com/dotearth

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1248 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Late-Day Selling Surge Drives Shares Down

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
For a few moments, Wall Street seemed on track for its most encouraging two-day performance in a month. 
 But then the sellers rushed in. Within 13 minutes, the momentary upswing that had followed the Federal Reserve's Wednesday afternoon announcement of a half-point cut in interest rates was gone, and the market's volatility was back. 
 The late-day decline echoed other final-hour moves in the market in recent weeks, indicating to investors that the combination of forced selling, profit taking and fear that has kept the market on edge since the start of the financial crisis had not yet resolved into a more reassuring stability. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 0.82 percent, or 74.16 points, to 8,990.96. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.1 percent, or 10.42 points, to 930.09 and the Nasdaq finished slightly higher at 1,657.21. All three markets rose 10 percent or more on Tuesday.
 ''We've seen this before. Any time you have a market like this, you are setting yourself up for people to sell and take advantage of these profits,'' said Ryan Larson, head equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. ''The short-sellers came in, and the profit takers came in, and they came in hard.''
 Meeting in Washington, the Federal Open Markets Committee decided unanimously on Wednesday afternoon to cut the benchmark federal funds target rate to 1 percent. It was the latest of a series of moves by the Fed to try to encourage the flow of credit to ease the downturn in the broader economy. 
 Stocks initially lost ground after the Fed announcement, as some investors had predicted even a larger rate cut. The major indexes then reversed course, with the Dow soaring more than 200 points before the final losses.
 Some uncertainty may have been because of varying readings of the statement issued by the Fed along with the rate cut, analysts said. The statement said the central bank would ''act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability,'' but did not explicitly outline any additional moves to shore up the economy.
 ''I think some investors were disappointed that the statement didn't indicate that the Fed was poised to do more,'' said Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management.
 After Tuesday's rally had sent the Dow soaring 889 points, helped by expectations of the interest rate cut, stocks opened lower Wednesday. They then staged a midmorning rally, a hopeful indication for investors that most of the gains would hold.
 ''There was a very tepid response in terms of a sell-off in the morning, so that's a healthy sign,'' said Michael Holland, the chairman of Holland & Company.
 New economic data released may have also brought the markets some short-lived optimism. In one economic report released Wednesday, the Commerce Department reported that orders for durable goods rose 0.8 percent, surprising economists who had expected a decline. Orders fell 5.5 percent in August in the biggest setback in nearly two years.
 Lending between banks also continued to ease. The government's plan to assist businesses by buying commercial paper -- the short-term i.o.u.'s that companies issue to borrow money for payroll and other immediate needs -- began to have some impact, with the volume of commercial paper issued rising by nearly 50 percent since the program began on Monday. The closely watched three-month Libor rate was down, indicating an increase in trust between banks.
 ''Right now, it looks as if some of the remedies are taking hold,'' Mr. Holland said. ''Confidence is returning to the credit markets.''
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32, to 101 5/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 3.85 percent, up from 3.83 percent late Tuesday.
 The dollar was weaker against major currencies, falling to 97.47 yen, down from 97.63 yen late Tuesday.
 Crude oil for December delivery settled at $67.50 a barrel in New York trading. 
 Overseas, stocks were mostly higher in Europe and Asia as investors focused on the prospect of additional interest rate cuts. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England are expected to cut rates next week.
 The markets in Asia were higher on Thursday morning. The Nikkei 225 rose 3.38 percent in early trading in Tokyo as investors speculated that the Bank of Japan might cut rates as well. In Australia, the S.& P./ASX 200 index was up 3.14 percent. In a bid to spur growth and shore up exports, China cut key interest rates for the third time in six weeks on Wednesday.
 Despite the recent rallies, major stock market indexes globally remain 30 percent to 65 percent down so far this year. 
 ''I think that uncertainty and volatile trading will continue to be the rule until we rehabilitate the years of excess in the credit markets,'' said Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman. ''It's hard to know how long that is going to take, but we know it's going to take a while.''
 Following are the results of Wednesday's auction of 64-day cash management bills:

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Favorites chart on Thursday with an article about the stock market's performance on Wednesday was published in error. The chart, which lists stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab, gave results from Tuesday, not Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (55%); DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1249 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2349 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, October 30, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ANCIENT CITY IN ISRAEL
 May Play a Role in Its Future
 The excavation of a 3,000-year-old city overlooking the Valley of Elah in Israel, where the Bible says David toppled Goliath, is likely to have a major impact on knowledge about the history of literacy and alphabet development. It will also be a weapon in the contentious debate over whether David and his capital of Jerusalem were an important kingdom or a minor tribe, an issue that divides not only scholars but also those seeking to support or delegitimize Zionism. PAGE A6
 CAR BOMBERS STRIKE IN SOMALIA
 Five suicide car bombers attacked government and United Nations sites in northern Somalia, killing at least 21 people. The attacks shattered the sense of calm that had existed in a few rare corners of the country. Somali officials quickly labeled the attacks the work of Islamist terrorists. Among the sites the bombers struck were the Somaliland presidential palace, an Ethiopian Consulate office and a United Nations office. PAGE A16 
 AFGHANS SEEK PEACE TALKS
 The Afghan government and its allies in the region have begun approaching the Taliban and other insurgent groups with new intensity to test the possibilities for eventual peace talks, Western diplomats and Afghan officials say. The diplomatic probes, by the Afghan government as well as Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, are part of a broad effort to stem the downward spiral of violence in Afghanistan and the collapse of public support for the government. PAGE A6
 UKRAINE FACTIONS UNITE FOR LOAN
 Ukraine's parliament put aside weeks of political infighting to give initial approval for legislation that would secure an emergency loan from the International Monetary Fund to help ease its ailing finances. The fund promised $16.5 billion on the condition that the country take steps to tighten its budget. PAGE A12
 PAKISTAN PROTESTS U.S. ATTACKS
 The Pakistani government lodged a formal protest over American missile attacks on the Taliban and Al Qaeda in the nation's tribal areas and told the American ambassador the strikes should be ''stopped immediately.'' The escalation of the missile attacks has shaken the Pakistani public, and the new government has been under pressure to distance itself from what is perceived as an American-led fight against terrorism inside Pakistan. PAGE A14
 DIFFICULTIES FOR SARKOZY
 After initially good reviews for his leadership and quick response to the financial crisis in Europe, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France is finding it increasingly difficult to find the right steps to take as the economy slows. And even his vaunted hyperactivity is starting to seem a little counterproductive to some people. PAGE A8
 national
 ARMY TO EXAMINE INCREASE
 In Suicide Among Soldiers
 The Army announced plans to collaborate with the National Institute of Mental Health in an ambitious five-year project to identify the causes and risk factors of suicide, conceding that it needed outside help in figuring out why the suicide rate among service members was rising. PAGE A17
 ARIZONA TO VOTE ON GAY MARRIAGE
 Under a state law passed in 1996, it is illegal for same-sex couples to marry in Arizona. And despite the fact that there is no visible movement -- among voters or lawmakers -- to overturn it, Arizonans will be asked to vote for the second time in two years on a proposal to amend the state Constitution to ban same-sex marriage. PAGE A20
 CALLS TO ACT ON NEBRASKA CHILD LAW
 After five more teenagers and preteenagers were abandoned to state custody over the last eight days, including one whose mother drove from Georgia, Gov. Dave Heineman of Nebraska announced that he would call a special session of the Legislature on Nov. 14 to rewrite the state's safe-haven law. PAGE A20
 LARGE FINE FOR KOSHER PLANT
 State labor authorities levied nearly $10 million in fines, charging wage violations at one of the country's largest kosher meat-packing plants in Iowa, where nearly 400 illegal immigrant workers were arrested in a raid in May. The plant's chief executive said the company would fight the charges. PAGE A18
 PANEL CRITICIZES F.D.A. ON CHEMICAL
 A scientific panel has issued a report accusing the Food and Drug Administration of ignoring important evidence in reassuring consumers about the safety of the controversial chemical bisphenol-A. BPA is widely used to make hard, clear plastic water bottles and baby bottles, and it is found in the lining of nearly every soft drink and canned food product container. PAGE A21
 obituaries
 ROBERT FURMAN, 93
 He was a former Army major, who as chief of foreign intelligence for the American atomic bomb project in World War II coordinated and often joined harrowing espionage missions to kidnap German scientists, seize uranium ore in Europe and determine the extent of Nazi efforts to build the bomb. PAGE B19
 GERALD ARPINO, 85
 He was a co-founder of the Joffrey Ballet and a distinctly American choreographer whose works popularized dance with their trendy finger on the nation's pulse. PAGE B20
 NEW YORK
 ADMISSIONS TO GIFTED PROGRAMS
 Decline Under New Policy
 The number of children entering gifted programs in New York City public schools dropped by half this year from last under a new policy intended to equalize access. The policy, which based admission on a citywide cutoff score on two standardized tests, also failed to diversify the historically coveted classes, according to a New York Times analysis. Some 48 percent of this year's new gifted students are white, compared with 33 percent under previous entrance policies. PAGE A29
 CUTS SPREADING BEYOND WALL STREET
 A broad array of businesses across the New York region have begun eliminating jobs by the thousands, as the pain of the financial crisis spreads beyond the finance industry. Economists and labor-market analysts predict that the cuts will be part of a large wave of pink slips that is expected to drive up the city's unemployment rate and strain the state's unemployment insurance fund. PAGE A28
 SPORTS
 FINDING FOOTBALL PLAYERS
 In Unlikely Places
 American football, having long spent its diplomatic efforts exporting the game around the world, is increasingly starting to import it. Greasing the trend is USA Football, a national governing body begun in 2003 with the help of the N.F.L. Its International Student Program has brought some of the top youth players from other countries to play at American boarding schools. PAGE B15
 BURRESS ADMITS MISTAKES
 Last month, the Giants suspended Plaxico Burress for two weeks of practice and one game for missing a meeting. Last Friday, the N.F.L. fined him $45,000 for three infractions. On Sunday, he was benched for the first quarter after missing a medical appointment the day before. Through it all, he has seemed largely indifferent -- at best. Until Wednesday, when he showed a measure of penitence. PAGE B18
 N.F.L. NETWORK FAULTED
 Thirteen United States senators sent Commissioner Roger Goodell of the N.F.L. a letter on Tuesday expressing their continued concern over what they consider the exclusionary nature of showing select games on the N.F.L. Network. The group included Senator Arlen Specter, a Republican from Pennsylvania, who has repeatedly called for the N.F.L. to make its games available to as many viewers as possible on free television, rather than favoring its own cable network. PAGE B18 
 BUSINESS
 NEW YORK ADDS TO PRESSURE
 On Banks to Cut Compensation
 Already under pressure from members of Congress to curtail compensation, banks now face a new threat from Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, who sent a letter to nine big financial institutions receiving government aid giving them one week to provide a ''detailed accounting regarding your expected paymentsto top management in the upcoming bonus season.'' The letter raised the prospect of a lawsuit. PAGE B1
 DURABLE-GOODS ORDERS RISE
 Business investment rose in September, with a surge in orders for aircraft and transportation equipment offsetting declines in the communications industry. But economists were quick to point out that reduced credit could cause more pain ahead. PAGE B3
 AN UNCERTAIN FUTURE
 Since 1971, when the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act that he helped write passed, Senator Ted Stevens has pretty much been on hand whenever any of the more than 200 corporations established to manage assets by the act struggled. With his future in Congress uncertain after his conviction on Monday on ethics charges, the ability of those corporations to stand on their own may be tested. PAGE B12
 DO-IT-YOURSELF SECURITY
 It used to be that a home security system called for professional installation. Now, with a little knowledge, most homeowners can do it themselves, even if all they want to do is keep track of dogs and cats, keep an eye on a baby sitter or make sure the basement is not flooding. PAGE B7
 Netflix and TiVo Team B8
 VW Shares Plunge B4
 HOME
 A VILLAGE RESIDENT
 From Another Time
 It may have begun life in the barnyard of a farm in the rural north of post-Revolutionary Manhattan. Two hundred or so years later, the little wooden house on the corner of Charles and Greenwich Streets is a portal to a different time and place. PAGE D1
 'AUDIO ARCHITECTURE' FOR THE HOME
 In the last five years, a handful of music consultants, mostly in New York and London, have begun to specialize in creating custom domestic soundtracks. The musical tastes of the owners may or may not make a difference. ''You're not going to have Johnny Cash playing in a fantastic retreat in the West Indies,'' one consultant said. ''It just wouldn't work.'' PAGE D4
 The Hazards Underfoot D2
 Arts
 HIP-HOP TO BEAT THE TURNTABLES,
 Trading the Samples for a Band
 Hip-hop's history is steeped in the magic of beats, hooks and D.J.'s. But some things just can't beat the band. The Roots have embraced this, and come heavy with a live show that stomps down electronic stunts with horns, a New Orleans second-line beat and a global awareness. Gym Class Heroes is another group that packs a live band, and if their focus is more personal, it's no less rocking, Jon Pareles writes. Page C2 
 TWO MEN. IT'S A CROWDED STAGE.
 There are some high-profile shows on Broadway, with ticket prices to match. But ''Love Child'' is not one of them. Created by Daniel Jenkins (''Mary Poppins'' and ''Big River'') and Robert Stanton (''The Coast of Utopia''), the show is a ''delicious'' romp with a backstage story loaded with eccentric characters played by the show's two creators and based on Euripides's ''Ion,'' Neil Genzlinger writes. Page C5 
 Style
 THE WORLD'S OLDEST PROFESSION,
 It's Not Just for the Fellas Anymore
 A woman in her 50s, elegant, slim, slung across a sofa with a satisfied smile; in her field of sight a bare-torsoed man slips money into his pocket. Such is the poster for the movie ''Cliente,'' a French film looking at long-held taboos surrounding sex and prostitution. Even in France, a country with a reputation for openness, the film comes at a time when the country is struggling to figure out where its boundaries lie. Page E1 
 WHEN PRICE TAGS GO ON TOUR
 Alexander Brenninkmeijer, designer of Clemens en August, couldn't find a boutique that would take a shot on a label with no sales. So he approached some galleries, and in exchange for a small donation he was able to sell his wares for a few days at a time. In this fashion, pun intended, he was able to take his designs on tour, capitalizing on independence and limited availability, and prices that rest at wholesale, sans the huge boutique mark-up. Page E4 
 Cars
 SEARCHING FOR A HEART OF GOLD
 And Cubic Inches of Green
 It'd be hard to ask Americans to part with their love of big cars. If Neil Young has his way, that won't be necessary. To try to feed the beasts in a globally conscious way, Mr. Young has assembled a team to convert a 1959 Lincoln Continental into a vehicle that will run on some kind of clean energy. It's a bid to win the Progressive Insurance Automotive X Prize: $10 million for a vehicle that will get 100 miles per gallon, or better, by 2009. Page F2 
 Editorial
 THE SUCCESS OF EARLY VOTING
 Election Day has traditionally been held on a single day -- a Tuesday, chosen for farmers and Sabbath observers. But in the 21st century, having one day to vote is an antiquated relic. Now that it is clear how successful early voting has been, the states that have not adopted it should do so. page A38
 NUMBERS GAME
 The United States once had the world's top high-school graduation rate. It has fallen to 13th place. Americans should be deeply alarmed by new data showing that the country is continuing to lose ground educationally to its competitors abroad. page A38
 DON'T BLAME THE UNINSURED
 There is a widely held belief that uninsured people are clogging emergency rooms to receive free care for minor ailments. A new study calls that belief into question, but leaves another troublesome implication: that many uninsured patients are simply going without needed care until they become so sick that they can't stay away. page A38
 op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Recent psychological research has explored the way Americans view Senator Barack Obama through the prism of race. One remarkable study has found that even people supportive of Mr. Obama subconsciously considered him less American than Senator Hillary Clinton, Senator John McCain or even Tony Blair, the former British prime minister. page A39
 GAIL COLLINS
 Once you realize you've got the Barack Obama TV special on your to-do list right between making a dental appointment and recaulking the bathtub, you know the magic's gone. We're ready to stop talking and vote. page A39
 MORTGAGE JUSTICE IS BLIND
 In an Op-Ed article, John G. Geanokoplos, an economics professor at Yale, and Susan P. Koniak, a former law professor at Boston University, outline a plan to have blind trustees, chosen by the government, decide which home loans should be reworked and which homes should go into foreclosure. page A39

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ARMIES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); SUICIDE (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); DEATHS (70%); MENTAL HEALTH (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); EURO CRISIS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOMALILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1250 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A Psychologist Helps Repackage Democrats' Message

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN and ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Democrats up and down the ballot have been trying to reverse the Republican rhetorical dominance that made ''liberal'' an unsavory label, and many have found help in a slender document percolating through their party's hierarchy.
 It is called the ''Message Handbook for Progressives From Left to Center,'' and, along with a companion piece on health care, it was created by Drew Westen, a psychology professor at Emory University here who was virtually unknown in political circles before this election cycle. Several Democratic consultants say it is the first systematic, data-driven effort to mold the language of the left to fit the sensibilities of the center.
Dr. Westen's advice can be heard when Alisha Thomas Morgan, running for re-election to the Georgia House in a conservative suburb of Atlanta, uses the word ''leadership'' in place of ''government'' and speaks about the middle class instead of the poor. 
 Or when Andrew Gillum, a city commissioner in Tallahassee, Fla., who is fighting a ballot initiative against same-sex marriage, tells members of his predominantly black church of the human desire for dignity and respect instead of lecturing them on the evils of discrimination. 
 Democrats of higher office who have heard Dr. Westen have also shifted their rhetoric, as when Senator Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, fending off a Republican challenger, not only says that ''health care is a right for every citizen'' but pointedly adds, ''Particularly citizens who are working hard every day.''
 Dr. Westen advises jettisoning wonkish 12-point plans in favor of direct emotional appeals that can compete with those evoked by Republicans using terms like ''family values'' and ''the war on terror.''
 ''We are a centrist nation,'' he said in an interview, ''but people prefer center-left to center-right, even in conservative parts of the country, if they hear equally strong messages on both sides.''
 Liberal candidates, especially those running in not-so-liberal territory, have latched on to his approach.
 ''There's almost a rebirth, or a pride, that we can really talk about what we believe and not do so shamefully,'' Mr. Gillum said, adding that Dr. Westen's advice had given him the confidence to speak his mind even on conservative talk radio. ''If we communicate it through our stories and our real-life examples, if they don't agree with you then they can at least understand where you come from.''
 Dr. Westen's ideas began to catch on when he was writing ''The Political Brain,'' a scientific explanation of the central role of emotion in politics, published in 2007, that urged Democrats to stop cowering and fight back. 
 Among those with whom he has had audiences are Howard Dean, the Democratic national chairman, and Young Elected Officials, a national group of left-leaning city council members and state legislators. During the primaries, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., now Senator Barack Obama's running mate, recommended ''The Political Brain'' to his campaign staff. Bill Clinton is a fan. 
 Even Frank Luntz, the architect of many Republican rhetorical successes, says Dr. Westen is fostering a sea change. 
 ''It's as though the Republicans have fallen back 15 years in their communication,'' Mr. Luntz said, ''at the very moment when Democrats vaulted ahead 15 years.''
 Mr. Luntz said the Obama campaign often mirrored Dr. Westen's approach. Though Dr. Westen has not worked for the campaign in an official capacity, he has offered guidance, both directly and in his Huffington Post columns.
 Instead of using euphemisms like ''pro-choice'' and ''reproductive health,'' his handbook suggests, liberal candidates might insist that it is un-American for the government to tell men and women when to start a family or what religious beliefs to follow, arguments that test well in focus groups with conservatives and independents. On illegal immigration, he recommends, candidates who have said their plan would ''allow'' immigrants to become citizens should instead say they will ''require'' it.
 ''The idea,'' Dr. Westen said, ''is to start to rebrand progressives using language that's as evocative as the language of the other side, and stop using phrases that just turn people off.''
 The handbook does not offer a script so much as a menu of options, each of which was poll-tested against conservative arguments. On economics, for example, one message begins with ''I want to see the words 'Made in America' again.'' Another reads, ''We need leaders who don't just talk about family values but actually value families.'' 
 Celinda Lake, a prominent Democratic strategist in Washington, said of the handbook: ''I think people have been overjoyed to have it. I don't think we have rooted our message in the kind of systematic understanding of values and networks of values that Drew uses.'' 
 Dr. Westen is not the first to try to whip Democratic messaging into shape. But several political consultants said his scientific approach -- based largely on recent advances in the study of how the brain reacts to political speech -- and his advocacy of plain talk made him more effective.
 Bill Jones, a moderate Democrat in a conservative, wealthy section of suburban Atlanta, said talking to Dr. Westen had helped him make the decision to run for Congress against the Republican incumbent, Representative Tom Price.
 Among other recommendations, Dr. Westen encouraged Mr. Jones to make his background as an Air Force veteran a prominent part of his biography. ''It wasn't a contrived approach like 'how can we create a persona?' '' Mr. Jones recalled. ''It's 'be the person you are.' ''
 In a candidates' forum at a church on a recent Saturday afternoon, Bobbie Smith, 77, listened while her husband, a veteran, exchanged war stories with Mr. Jones. Ms. Smith, who identified herself as a conservative-leaning independent, said she had seen Mr. Jones's television commercials, co-produced by Dr. Westen. ''I liked the down-to-earth talk,'' she said. ''Common words for common people.''
 Not everyone has jumped wholeheartedly onto the Westen bandwagon. Though praising Dr. Westen's work, Will Marshall, president of the Progressive Policy Institute, the research wing of the Democratic Leadership Council, said he worried that it focused too much on the message rather than substance. 
 But Paul Begala, a commentator and Democratic strategist who was an adviser to President Clinton, said that with candidates like Mr. Jones, Dr. Westen was helping to shape the future of the party. 
 ''The fact that they're doing this in Georgia is really, really, really important,'' Mr. Begala said. ''Great politicians often come out of enemy territory. Ronald Reagan came from Hollywood, and it made him tougher and smarter.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alisha Thomas Morgan, a Georgia legislator, is a student of the ''Message Handbook for Progressives From Left to Center.''
 The handbook's author, Drew Westen, a psychology professor at Emory University. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FAMILY (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); MARRIAGE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); CITY GOVERNMENT (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009



1251 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Airports Grow Apace, but the Timing Seems Off

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Airports around the country broke ground on dozens of projects over the last decade, including new runways and terminals, to handle all the new passenger traffic that seemed certain to keep growing. 
 Now, many of those new developments are being completed. And the timing could not be worse.
 Airlines, after all, are grounding hundreds of planes and cutting as much as 20 percent of their domestic flying schedule because of last summer's high oil prices and the weakening economy. More cuts are planned for next year. 
 The good news for passengers is that all this new capacity in the system can help ease delays -- at least for those flights that are not affected by the bottlenecks created by the three New York-area airports. 
 New runways are open or about to be dedicated at Chicago O'Hare, Washington Dulles and Seattle-Tacoma. A new terminal opened in Detroit recently, and the new Terminal 5 at Kennedy International Airport, home to JetBlue Airways, opened last week. 
 For many travelers, ''congestion is kind of a thing of the past,'' said Douglas M. Steenland, chief executive at Northwest Airlines. 
 But there is a cost to airlines and passengers who pay for these projects through leases and higher ticket fees. And some airline executives, who once pleaded with airport officials for more runways and gates, are speaking out against more construction on top of projects that have cost tens of billions of dollars over the last decade. 
 The projects are ''spending other people's money,'' said Gary C. Kelly, chief executive at Southwest Airlines.
 According to the Air Transport Association, the airlines' trade group, carriers paid landing fees totaling $615 million in 2007. The median airport cost per passenger for each flight is $5.87, according to Moody's Investor Services.
 Bob Montgomery, vice president for properties at Southwest, said his airline paid an average $4.80 per passenger in airport costs in 2005. Next year, Southwest expects that figure to reach $7.50 -- a 55 percent increase in just four years. At the higher end, it pays $12.30 per passenger at St. Louis, where American Airlines has sharply reduced flights, meaning others have to pick up more of the costs.
 The biggest miscalculations in new construction occurred in hub cities where airports spent billions to meet the needs of a single carrier, only to see the airline drastically shrink its presence.
 In St. Louis, the airport authority spent $1.1 billion on a new runway that opened in 2006, even though traffic is down 53.9 percent since 2000. American Airlines dropped many flights following its acquisition of Trans World Airlines, which had been the main carrier there.
 The Pittsburgh airport authority spent $1 billion on a new terminal in the early 1990s for US Airways. But passenger traffic there is down by almost half this decade because of cutbacks by US Airways.
 And in Cincinnati, the airport authority spent $500 million in the mid-1990s on construction that included a new terminal for Delta Air Lines. And it added a third runway in 2005, its busiest year. Since then, passenger traffic has fallen 36.4 percent as Delta cut back. On a recent weekday morning, half the parking spots were empty in the airport's main garage, which was expanded only months before 9/11.
 Even in the future, the prospects for Cincinnati's airport are not good.
 Delta received approval from the Justice Department Wednesday to merge with Northwest, giving the combined airline six hubs in the United States. Cincinnati is less than 250 miles from Detroit, Northwest's main airport for international traffic. 
 Although Delta insists it has no plans to eliminate any hubs, Detroit, now its second-biggest airport after Atlanta, may have the upper hand if Delta chooses to streamline its operations. Detroit opened its new North terminal in September, its second new terminal this decade.
 Detroit's new terminal, which cost $1.2 billion, has wide security screening aisles, and plenty of shopping and restaurants. The half-mile-long facility replaced a crowded terminal built in the 1960s, not long after airlines began flying jets.
 ''It's a huge improvement,'' said Janet Lankford, of Milford, Mich., who was among the passengers using the terminal when it opened Sept. 17.
 Mike Preamble of Atlanta called it ''a nice step up for Detroit. I've been here in the past where the airport has been a dump.'' 
 Despite the ups and downs of the industry and individual carriers, airports need to keep modernizing, said Todd Hauptli, an executive vice president for the American Association of Airport Executives, a trade group.
 ''Terminal buildings are often 10-, 12-, 15-year projects,'' he said. ''You can't turn the spigot on and off. You have to look out a little farther than the airlines have to, or are able to. The airport's mission is to process the passengers and think about not just next week or next month but next year and next decade,'' he said. 
 Indeed, officials in Las Vegas are planning to build a new $2.4 billion international terminal. Air travel there has risen 50 percent since 2000, a trend that airport executives say justifies new facilities. But traffic fell in the last year, and Southwest has set aside a plan to expand its flights at Las Vegas to 350 a day, from 240.
 Mr. Hauptli of the airports' trade group said that the Federal Aviation Administration still predicted passenger traffic would rise to 1 billion annually during the next 15 years, up 300 million travelers from the levels of the last few years. 
 ''That's almost the population of the United States,'' he said. ''I don't see how you add that to the system without building some new additional capacity.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about airport expansions in the United States at a time when passenger traffic is shrinking misstated the cost of the new North Terminal at Detroit. The terminal, which opened in September, cost $431 million -- not $1.2 billion, which was the price of the airport's McNamara Terminal that opened in 2002. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: There are no lines at the Delta check-in counter in Cincinnati. The airport added a third runway in 2005, its busiest year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: BUILDING OUT AS AIRLINES SHRUNK: Many airports have been building runways and expanding terminals to accommodate anticipated growth in passenger traffic. But the timing could be better, as airlines are now grounding hundreds of planes and cutting flights. Airports in New York, where JetBlue opened a new terminal last week, are an exception because of soaring growth. (CHART BY THE NEW YORK TIMES/PHOTO BY GLOBE NEWSWIRE) (Sources: Federal Aviation Administration
Bureau of Transportation Statistics
 the airports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (65%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (79%); DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1252 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Paterson and Corzine Press Congress for State Rescue Package

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Governors David A. Paterson of New York and Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey added their voices Wednesday to the growing support for a second federal economic stimulus package, saying state governments would face devastating cutbacks if they did not receive assistance soon. 
 Appearing before separate congressional committees, they said that their states, like many others, had already moved to address budget deficits. Their actions alone would not be enough, they said.
 ''We are cutting all we can,'' Mr. Paterson told the House Ways and Means Committee. ''Therefore, we feel that targeted, sensible actions by the federal government will provide relief for us now.''
 Speaking to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Mr. Corzine implored, ''We need federal help to get through these tough times.''
 Their remarks increased the pressure on the federal government to include money for state governments in the next round of economic stimulus legislation, pointedly putting the requests of the executives of two of the nation's most populous states on the record. 
 Later, at a joint news conference, Mr. Paterson and Mr. Corzine called for assistance to support infrastructure projects like bridges and roads, and for assistance to prevent social programs like unemployment insurance from running out of money.
 ''The federal government ignores state and local governments at serious peril,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 The type of legislation they called for would probably be in the range of hundreds of billions of dollars. Congressional Democrats have said they would like to see such legislation approved quickly, but there is doubt that President Bush would agree. 
 Mr. Paterson's appearance on Capitol Hill came a day after he warned that the state deficit over the next three and a half years was expected to be $47 billion. He has called on state lawmakers to put forward ideas on how to reduce the state budget in preparation for a special legislative session he has called for Nov. 18.
 In written testimony he submitted to the committee, Mr. Paterson was even more pointed, criticizing the federal government for not preventing the current economic upheaval and for its lack of attention to the states.
 ''I firmly believe that if it took only two weeks for the federal government to find $700 billion to bail out Wall Street and bank executives,'' he said, ''then we ought to be able to find a fraction of that amount to help preserve essential services at the state level.''
 He added, ''The results of federal inaction could be devastating in every corner of our nation.''
 In the written testimony, Mr. Paterson repeatedly invoked the economic damage resulting from the Sept. 11 attacks, saying that the threat to New York's economy was in many ways far more severe now than it was then.
 He said New York and other states were on the verge of finding themselves unable to provide essential social services like unemployment benefits and food stamps and needed federal assistance.
 ''Just like the financial services industry, we need a partner in the federal government in order to help stave off an impending calamity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson spoke with Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina before a House Ways and Means Committee hearing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TERRORISM (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); JON CORZINE (91%); MARK SANFORD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1253 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Reaches for I.M.F. Rescue Loan

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Kiev, Ukraine, and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin. Graham Bowley contributed reporting from New York and Andrew Kramer from Moscow.

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine 

 BODY:
Ukraine's Parliament put aside weeks of political infighting on Wednesday to give initial approval for legislation that would secure an emergency loan from the International Monetary Fund to help ease the country's ailing finances. 
 The global financial crisis has battered Ukraine, and the country badly needs the $16.5 billion loan that was promised by the fund last week. But the money was offered on the condition that Ukraine take steps to tighten its budget. 
 Lawmakers agreed in a vote of 248 to 2 to pass those measures. Two more votes are required for final approval, and while the package is expected to pass, a deepening political crisis raised broader questions about Ukraine's stability. 
 ''We are giving a signal to the U.S. government and the I.M.F. that the government, president and most of the Parliament intend to deal with the economy,'' said Ivan Kirilenko, a deputy in Parliament.
 But the market seemed skeptical. Ukraine's currency, the hryvnia, lost about 14 percent of its value on Wednesday alone, and the cost to insure Ukrainian government debt has spiked, up sixfold since September.
 ''Until Ukraine can develop and communicate a reasonable anti-crisis plan to the markets, the hryvnia will be under pressure,'' said Arthur McCallum, an analyst at Kazimir Partners in Kiev, a fund manager focused on the states of the former Soviet Union.
 The I.M.F.'s representative in Kiev, Balazs Horvath, said, ''It is a process that will take a few more days, but progress has been made.''
 Earlier this month, President Viktor A. Yushchenko issued a decree dissolving Parliament and the cabinet, and calling for early elections in December. His ultimate aim, his critics say, is to get rid of his prime minister, Yulia Tymoshenko, a powerful politician and a former ally. 
 It is a post-Soviet story of grim familiarity. The two stood together leading the mass demonstrations against a rigged election in 2004 that became known as the Orange Revolution. But since then, their relations have deteriorated, with each publicly accusing the other of betraying their past ideals.
 The legislation for the loan, meanwhile, had been held hostage to this political struggle, which got physical twice over the past week. On Tuesday, deputies from Ms. Tymoshenko's party stormed the podium in Parliament trying to prevent a measure on financing the elections to come to a vote. 
 On Wednesday, several deputies nearly came to blows, shouting and grabbing to stop others from voting for the measure. At one point, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the speaker of Parliament, shouted helplessly, ''The head of the Parliament is still in charge!''
 The scuffle ended in success for Ms. Tymoshenko's bloc, which erupted in cheers when the measure went down to defeat -- four votes shy of passage. 
 But the fight is not over yet. Ksenia Lyapina, a deputy from Mr. Yushchenko's party, Our Ukraine, dismissed the rowdy opposition deputies as ''monkeys from the jungle,'' and said her party intended to insert the legislation into the package intended for the I.M.F., before the final rounds of voting on Thursday, casting a shadow over the fate of the package once again.
 Ms. Tymoshenko, meanwhile, parried attacks from another big political player, the Regions Party, which was staunchly opposed to the financial legislation all along, arguing that its plan to save the country's finances -- which centered on demanding longer term loans from the I.M.F. and increasing social payments -- was better. 
 Ms. Tymoshenko dismissed the plan as ''one and a half pages and three points'' and chided the party for its leader's absence from the session. A deputy shot back that he was sick and running a temperature. 
 Mr. Yushchenko, for his part, continued to press the issue of the election on Wednesday, declaring that the actions of the opposition bloc that Ms. Tymoshenko leads had ''destroyed trust and made it impossible for the coalition to exist.''
 ''I, as the president, won't take a single step back from a democratic way of resolving that problem,'' he said. 
 But his opponents strongly disagree, saying that his decision to force early elections was simply a classic method of bare-knuckle bullying. 
 ''The president is playing a dark game,'' said Volodymyr Polokhalo, a member of Ms. Tymoshenko's bloc. ''This election is political extremism.''
 Mr. Yushchenko's critics say he has an oversize sense of his own power, calling for an election at a time when two Kiev-based polling firms put his popularity at 4 to 5 percent. Mr. Polokhalo uses a line from ''The Gambler'' by Dostoyevsky to explain it: ''Poisoning yourself with your own personal fantasies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko of Ukraine, bottom right, is involved in a political feud.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY DOLZHENKO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: YULIA TYMOSHENKO (89%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%) UKRAINE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1254 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Last Week Quiz

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
We are so ready to wrap up this presidential race. It's been a great ride, but once you realize you've got the Barack Obama TV special on your to-do list next to recaulking the bathtub, you know the magic's gone. Time to stop talking and start worrying about whether the voting machines have all their working parts.
 Sarah Palin almost got me back in the ring when she suddenly attacked federal funding for scientific research that uses fruit flies. Is she a member of a fruit-fly rights group? Opposed to basic research? Or does she want to limit federal funding to labs that do all their testing on puppies? 
 No, I'm not going there. We need a break. Dare you to answer this end-of-the-endless-election quiz:
 Take the interactive version of the quiz <check>
 Take the text version of the quiz <check>
 ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **
 1. Speaking about the campaign, John McCain said: ''It's not an easy business. It's not ...
 A) Mumblety-peg.
 B) Beanbag.
 C) Tiddledy Winks.
 D) Table Skittles.
 ******
 2. Which one of these statements did Barack Obama make while campaigning?
 A) ''I've now been in 57 states. I think one left to go.''
 B) ''Most of all, I believe in you, Nebraska. Or South Dakota. Or wherever I am.''
 C) ''We've come so far since we began this campaign 21 years ago.'' 
 ******
 3. When Tom Brokaw asked McCain to compare himself to a movie character, McCain's first response was to mention:
 A) The entire cast of ''Hoosiers.''
 B) Knute Rockne, urging his team to win one for the dead Gipper.
 C) The dead Gipper.
 D) Leonardo DiCaprio in ''Titanic,'' saving the girl before going down for the third time.
 E) Rocky, Rocky, Rocky, Rocky, Rocky. 
 ******
 4. Levi Johnston, Bristol Palin's fiance, gave an interview to The Associated Press in which he revealed that, at first, he was nervous about appearing with the Palin family at the Republican convention, but later: 
 A) Was excited by the chance to meet Mitt Romney.
 B) ''... was like, 'Whatever.' ''
 C) Prepared by reading up on the party platform.
 ******
 5. Which of the following did Joe Biden NOT say while he was campaigning for vice president?
 A) That he hated one of Obama's anti-McCain commercials, then retracted his criticism since he hadn't actually seen it.
 B) That Hillary Clinton ''might have been a better pick than me.''
 C) That to find out what Americans think, you had to walk ''down Union Street with me in Wilmington and go to Katie's Restaurant,'' an eatery that has been closed for nearly 20 years. And was never on Union Street.
 D) That even though he takes the Amtrak home to Delaware every night, he's never once sat in the quiet car. 
 E) Asked a Missouri state senator to stand up and be recognized, apparently forgetting that the man was wheelchair-bound.
 ******
 6. Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, struggling in the polls, released an ad that appears to have her opponent saying ...: 
 A) ''Deep in my heart, I know Elizabeth is the better choice.''
 B) ''There is no God.''
 C) ''We need to concentrate on Wall Street instead of Main Street.''
 D) ''The Tar Heels stink.''
 ******
 7. Democrat Tim Mahoney of Florida, who was elected to replace the Congressional-page-obsessed Mark Foley, has now admitted to ''multiple affairs'' and is being investigated for allegedly paying one former lover/staff member $121,000. His campaign slogan when he ran against Foley was:
 A) ''Keeping Our Philandering Heterosexual.''
 B) ''Restoring America's Values Begins at Home.''
 C) ''Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose.'' 
 ******
 8. Which of the following did Representative Charles Rangel, the chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, NOT do during the current campaign season?
 A) Announce he was giving up a rent-stabilized apartment that he used as an office while keeping three others.
 B) Explain his failure to pay taxes on rental income from a Dominican Republic vacation home by saying he got confused because his business partners kept speaking Spanish.
 C) Call out to some New Yorkers who were coughing from pepper spray in the lobby of a hotel in Denver during the Democratic convention: ''I'm outta here! I'll send you cigarettes!''
 D) Say of Sarah Palin's wardrobe: ''For $150,000, you'd think she'd get better shoes.''
 ******
 9. At his final appearance before the United Nations, President George W. Bush assured world leaders that his administration was responding to the economic crisis by taking:
 A) Bold steps.
 B) Baby steps.
 C) Another look at invading Iran.
 ******
 ANSWERS: 1-B, 2-A, 3-C, 4-B, 5-D, 6-B, 7-B, 8-D, 9-A 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); DOGS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (77%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); JOE BIDEN (57%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1255 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Public Works Projects Promoted at Hearing

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Business executives and Republicans joined Democrats and labor unions in clamoring Wednesday for a multibillion dollar initiative to stimulate the economy with more federal spending on roads and bridges, waterways, airports, railways, schools and energy-saving technology.
 Now is not the time to worry about the federal budget deficit, the witnesses and members of Congress said at a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, a Democrat, told the committee that Congress should take action ''post-election, not post-inauguration'' -- in November or December, instead of waiting until after the new administration takes over in late January -- to provide $250 billion to $300 billion for new projects. 
 Representative James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the committee, said he was tired of hearing from economists who believed that spending on public works would not be of much help because the projects were built slowly, over months or years.
 ''The problem with those economists,'' Mr. Oberstar said, ''is that they never had their hands on a shovel and never had a callus on them.''
 Lawmakers of both parties said that Congress, having passed a $700 billion bill to bail out banks and Wall Street investment houses, now needed to help consumers and smaller businesses.
 Mr. Oberstar said that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, had made a ''firm commitment'' to pass an economic recovery bill, with money for transportation and public works, as soon as possible.
 Ms. Pelosi said this week that she would try to work with President Bush to ''find bipartisan agreement on an economic recovery package.'' She emphasized the need for ''fiscal discipline,'' and House leadership aides said that any bill passed this year was unlikely to provide more than $100 billion.
 Mr. Bush threatened to veto a $61 billion stimulus bill passed by the House on Sept. 26. ''Infrastructure projects require lengthy time periods to plan and build and would not create a substantial number of jobs in the near future,'' Mr. Bush said then.
 Lawmakers took issue with the president on Wednesday.
 Because of the recent slowdown, Mr. Oberstar said, ''there is a huge backlog of infrastructure projects that are ready to go'' in three or four months, if additional money is made available.
 State transportation officials said they could start work on more than 3,000 highway projects totaling $18 billion within 30 to 90 days. Mass transit officials said they could have $8 billion of projects ready to go in 90 days.
 The senior Republican on the committee, Representative John L. Mica of Florida, heartily endorsed the effort. ''Every billion dollars of spending on highways and transportation projects results in 35,000 new jobs,'' Mr. Mica said, using a figure in the midrange of estimates by economists.
 Mr. Mica said that any bill should include tax relief to help businesses create jobs, perhaps by allowing them to write off equipment expenses faster.
 The total package will probably cost $200 billion to $300 billion, Mr. Mica predicted.
 Business executives and some economists said that such spending would increase economic activity, national income and productivity, thus generating revenue for the government.
 Many points made Wednesday echoed arguments made long ago by Henry Clay, the Kentucky congressman who championed federal support for roads and canals in the 19th century, and President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who put hundreds of thousands of people to work on construction projects during the Depression.
 John D. Porcari, the transportation secretary in Maryland, urged Congress on Wednesday to take a long view. ''Transportation dollars are converted to physical assets that will last 50 to 100 years or more,'' he said.
 John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, and Terence M. O'Sullivan, president of the Laborers' International Union of North America, which represents construction workers, joined the chorus of support for the legislation.
 ''There is no better time than today'' to begin a major program of public works projects, said Mr. Engler, a Republican who was governor of Michigan from 1991 through 2002.
 The deteriorating condition of roads and bridges harms manufacturers, he said, because 80 percent of the nation's freight is carried by truck. Moreover, he said, manufacturers depend on inland waterways to move coal, petroleum and agricultural products.
 Mr. O'Sullivan said the construction industry was in the midst of the worst downturn in 40 years, with nearly one million construction workers, or one-tenth of the total, out of work.
 ''Construction jobs are too good to keep losing,'' Mr. O'Sullivan said, noting that they paid an average of more than $40,000 a year.
 The starting point for Congress is the bill passed last month by the House, which would provide money for public works projects, extended unemployment benefits, larger food stamp allotments and help for states struggling with Medicaid costs. 
 The National Governors Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the National Association of Counties and the National League of Cities sent a joint letter to Congress this week appealing for help. They endorsed proposals for transportation spending and a temporary increase in the federal share of Medicaid.
 Inevitably, Mr. Mica said, Congress will earmark some money for specific projects. But, he added, Congress will avoid ''bad earmarks'' and the legislation will not be stuffed with pork barrel projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VETO (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (57%); BANK FAILURES (51%)

PERSON: JIM OBERSTAR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); JOHN L MICA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1256 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: McCain Embraces a G.O.P. Theme: No More Taxes

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
In these waning days of Senator John McCain's quest for the White House, he has returned in his speeches to a time-honored Republican attack line against Democrats: the evils of taxes. Or, as he summed it up while pummeling Senator Barack Obama in a lumberyard here on Wednesday, ''This is the fundamental difference between Senator Obama and me: He thinks taxes are too low, and I think that spending is too high.''
 The line was the central theme of the final version of Mr. McCain's evolving stump speech and reflected what his advisers calculate is his last, best argument against Mr. Obama. Higher taxes, they say, strike fear in voters already threatened by the precarious economy, as do Mr. McCain's charges that Mr. Obama would effectively be a socialist.
 ''You see, Senator Obama believes in redistributing wealth, not in policies that grow our economy and create jobs,'' Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, told a modest crowd under crisp sunshine at Everglades Lumber, where two people held up a sign that said, ''Stop Socialism, Vote McCain.'' 
 Mr. McCain continued: ''He said that even though lower taxes on investment help our economy, he favors higher taxes on investment for, quote, 'fairness.' There's nothing fair about driving our economy into the ground. We all suffer when that happens, and that is the problem with Senator Obama's approach to our economy. He is more interested in controlling wealth than in creating it, in redistributing money instead of spreading opportunity. I'm going to create wealth for all Americans, by creating opportunities for all Americans.''
 Joe the Plumber, otherwise known as Joe Wurzelbacher of Holland, Ohio, continues to get such big billing in Mr. McCain's stump that it sometimes seems as if he is the candidate's running mate. Mr. McCain and his advisers say they fervently believe that Mr. Wurzelbacher is the single best embodiment of their economic argument against Mr. Obama, who told Mr. Wurzelbacher in a now-famous encounter in the plumber's driveway that ''when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody.'' 
 Mr. Wurzelbacher, who has said he wants to buy a small plumbing business, campaigned with Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the vice-presidential nominee, in Ohio on Wednesday.
 ''Now, Joe didn't ask for Senator Obama to come to his house, and he didn't ask to be famous,'' Mr. McCain said in his speech in here. ''He certainly didn't ask for the political attacks on him from the Obama campaign. Joe's dream is this dream, Joe's dream is to own a small business that will create jobs, and the attacks on him are an attack on small businesses all over this country. These are people like Gus the Homebuilder and Peter the Exterminator right here in Miami. Small businesses employ 84 percent of Americans, and we need to support these small businesses, not tax them.''
 From there, Mr. McCain's address moved into his new mouthful of a slogan against Mr. Obama, a charge that his Democratic rival would be a redistributor, or the redistributor in chief, or some similar formulation that seems to conjure up images of the internal workings of cars.
 ''Senator Obama is running to be redistributionist in chief,'' Mr. McCain said in here. ''I'm running to be commander in chief. Senator Obama is running to spread the wealth. I'm running to create more wealth. Senator Obama is running to punish the successful. I'm running to make everyone successful.''
 Stylistically, Mr. McCain readily admits that he will never be an orator like Mr. Obama, a disparity he has sought to use against his rival, who he regularly says is eloquent but lacks the experience to match his words. 
 While Mr. McCain's speeches are more smoothly delivered than they used to be, he can still sound angry and sharp, as he did at times here on Wednesday. Still, he has modulated from his harsh tones of early October, when rowdy crowds were shouting insults about Mr. Obama.
 Only after he delivered his economic message on Wednesday did Mr. McCain get to national security, the issue he had planned to be at the center of his general election campaign.
 ''If we are going to change Washington, we need a president who has actually fought for change and made it happen,'' Mr. McCain said. ''The next president won't have time to get used to the office. We face many challenges here at home, and many enemies abroad in this dangerous world. 
 From there, Mr. McCain turned to another favorite Joe, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Obama's running mate, who told campaign donors at a recent fund-raiser in Seattle that if Mr. Obama was elected, the world's leaders would test his mettle as a young president, just as they did John F. Kennedy. Mr. McCain has pounced on the remarks as a sign that Mr. Obama is not ready for the presidency, and contrasted that with his own military experience in the 1960s and 1970s.
 ''Senator Biden warned that Senator Obama would be tested with an international crisis,'' Mr. McCain said. ''I have been tested. Senator Obama hasn't. Senator Biden referred to how Jack Kennedy was tested in the Cuban missile crisis, and I have a little personal experience in that. I was on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, and I sat in a jet cockpit on the flight deck waiting to take off. We had a target. I know how close we came to a nuclear war, and I will not be a president that needs to be tested.''
 Mr. McCain continued: ''We know Senator Obama won't have the right response to that test, because we've seen the wrong response from him over and over during this campaign. He opposed the surge strategy that is bringing us victory in Iraq and will bring us victory in Afghanistan. He said he would sit down unconditionally with the world's worst dictators. When Russia invaded Georgia, Senator Obama said the invaded country should show restraint. He's been wrong on all of these. When I am president, we are going to win in Iraq and win in Afghanistan, and our troops will come home in victory and honor.''
 Mr. McCain closed his speech with a figurative call to arms.
 ''Stand up, stand up, stand up and fight!'' Mr. McCain shouted. ''America is worth fighting for. Nothing is inevitable here. We never give up. We never quit. We never hide from history. We make history. Now, let's go win this election and get this country moving again!''
 The crowd wildly cheered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1257 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: A Rate of Zero Percent From the Fed? Some Analysts Say It Could Be Coming

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Zero percent interest rates! It sounds like free money, or maybe a promotional deal from General Motors to get people to buy Hummers. Are zero rates coming to the Federal Reserve? 
 As it happens, the Fed is surprisingly close to that point already. On Wednesday, the central bank lowered its target for the federal funds rate -- the rate that banks charge each other on overnight loans -- to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.
 But in practice, the actual federal funds rate fluctuates slightly around its target as the Fed carries out its open-market operations in the money markets. And because banks and financial institutions have been so frightened about lending in the last month, the actual Fed funds rate has been below 1 percent for the last two weeks. On Tuesday, it averaged only 0.67 percent.
 A growing number of analysts now predict that the economy is so weak that the Fed will have to reduce its official target to zero if it wants to jumpstart the stalled economy.
 Japan's central bank reduced its benchmark interest rate to zero for five years, from 2001 to 2006. It did so mainly to combat a particularly persistent case of deflation, a broad-based decline in consumer prices, and to revive economic growth.
 Some analysts see signs that the United States faces a similar threat. Like Japan's, American banks have become so decimated by losses in real estate that they are either unable or unwilling to resume normal lending. And as prices for oil and many other commodities have crashed during the past two weeks, some analysts now warn that deflation might be a threat here as well.
 With the Fed funds rate already down to 1 percent, and below one percent on many days, the central bank is fast approaching what economists call the ''zero bound.''
 If the Fed funds rate did drop to zero, it would not mean free money for consumers or businesses. The zero rate would only apply to the reserves that banks are required to maintain and that they lend to one another. Customers would still have to pay some interest, but the rates could be extremely low for some business borrowers.
 The real question for policy makers is what to do if they reach a zero rate and still want to rev up the economy. Fed officials have studied the question closely, and the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gave a famous speech on the issue when he was a Fed governor in 2002.
 In that speech, Mr. Bernanke described a series of options. The simplest option would be for the Fed to start buying Treasury securities with longer maturities. Buying up those longer-term securities would push up their prices and drive down longer-term interest rates. If that didn't work, the Fed could start buying up privately-issued debt, like corporate bonds. 
 In effect, the Federal Reserve would be printing more money and injecting it into the economy -- a strategy of ''quantitative easing,'' in Fed jargon. 
 Too much money would provoke a new round of inflation and perhaps yet another asset bubble. But Japanese inflation never took off. After five years, the Bank of Japan cautiously raised its benchmark rate to .5 percent. This week, published reports have suggested that it might cut the rate in half once again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEFLATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1258 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Original Team Tries To Revive Starbucks

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Since Howard D. Schultz returned to the helm of Starbucks in January, he has desperately tried to recapture the company's original magic.
 The nostalgia-flavored turnaround effort has included a new coffee blend that harks back to the company's Seattle origins and smaller espresso machines that do not isolate employees from customers. 
 With less fanfare, Mr. Schultz has also hired back one of the authors of Starbucks's original success: Arthur Rubinfeld, its president of global development. Back at Starbucks since February, Mr. Rubinfeld is now guiding a renovation of its stores and refocusing on the urban markets that gave the company its illustrious start.
 Starbucks is to some extent real estate driven, a business that depends on selecting visible, convenient locations. That makes Mr. Rubinfeld, a 54-year-old architect, one of Starbucks's most important stewards. 
 He led the company's real estate and design division throughout the '90s, fashioning an expansion strategy that focused on traffic patterns and demographics and became a model for the rest of the retail world. Mr. Rubinfeld left Starbucks in 2002 to start his own consulting firm. 
 Last December, while plotting his return as chief executive, Mr. Schultz met Mr. Rubinfeld at -- where else? -- a Starbucks, in Seattle's affluent Madison Park neighborhood, and asked him to resume his old duties. 
 ''I was concerned and a little upset at where our legacy could have ended up,'' Mr. Rubinfeld said, describing his decision to accept the offer. ''Everything about the company was being defined by others.'' 
 Nearly a year later, that has not changed, and the company is increasingly seen as a fading symbol of an overexuberant age. Wall Street analysts and investors continue to disparage Starbucks, citing self-inflicted wounds like overexpansion and mediocre food. 
 The company's fortunes seem to be waning by the day. It is being squeezed by rivals like McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts, which have started offering lower-price espresso drinks, and by a faltering economy that is forcing consumers to reconsider their $3.65-a-day caramel macchiato kick. 
 As a result, Starbucks stock has dropped more than half in the last year and hit a nearly seven-year intraday low this week before rebounding slightly. It closed Wednesday at $11.33, compared with above $26 a year ago. 
 In an interview last week, Mr. Schultz said the number of customers in Starbucks stores had declined compared with last year but that the trend appeared to have bottomed out. He argued that the company was in a better position than most to navigate a recession, largely because it has already decided to close 600 stores in the United States and lay off 1,000 workers this year. 
 ''We believe we are more relevant to our customers than ever before because of what we are all facing,'' Mr. Schultz said, arguing that his cafes can be a refuge from the economic storm. ''We are not selling a commodity cup of coffee. We have created a unique experience.'' 
 Mr. Schultz met Mr. Rubinfeld 30 years ago when they were both bachelors and neighbors in the same East Village apartment building. Today, the two remain so friendly that they close personal e-mail messages to each other with the word ''love.'' 
 Mr. Rubinfeld's touchy-feely camaraderie and unwavering smile mask his exasperation over Starbucks's recent setbacks. In particular, he feels that the company has been treated unfairly by the news media and critics who disparage its coffee and accuse it of environmentally incautious practices like wasting water. (Starbucks prides itself on its progressive policies. It said Wednesday that it was doubling its purchase of farmer-friendly ''Fair Trade'' coffee and donating to Bono's RED philanthropy.) 
 But Mr. Rubinfeld acknowledges that in its relentless expansion to around 17,000 stores, Starbucks overlooked the costs to its reputation of generic, cookie-cutter designs and of placing stores in dreary suburban strip malls. 
 ''We did not have the discipline to say no,'' he said. ''The issue was our failure to say, 'That store in that location should not be opened.' '' 
 Now that he is again leading Starbucks's real estate team, Mr. Rubinfeld says he will focus on adding stores to urban areas -- where there is already a near-saturation of the coffee market, but also a preponderance of affluent young professionals who subsist on fancy coffee drinks. 
 Mr. Rubinfeld said Starbucks would begin to tailor new stores to specific neighborhoods. For example, it could create some stores in upscale neighborhoods that drop frilly drinks like Frappuccinos and sell only coffee beans and high-end espresso drinks -- similar to Starbucks's original store at Seattle's Pike Place Market. That would serve to ''reinforce our brand's position as a purveyor of high quality coffees of the world,'' he said. 
 Underlying all new store openings will be a strict commitment to sales targets. ''I will look into the eyes of senior managers and they will be directly accountable,'' Mr. Rubinfeld said. ''That person has to know a new store will hit its first-year sales goals.'' 
 He also wants to change the inside of Starbucks stores. Last week he unveiled a new design to the company's regional managers. Elements of it, like energy-efficient lighting, new furniture using reclaimed materials and modular merchandising racks to display the growing array of Starbucks products, will begin appearing in stores across the country later this year. So will new paintings that evoke the company's coffee heritage -- as opposed to what Mr. Rubinfeld calls the generic ''Pier 1 art'' dotting some store walls now. 
 Early next year, some cafes, beginning in Seattle, will receive a more thorough overhaul, with longer bars that have more room for cashier terminals -- for shorter lines -- and community tables that might force patrons to take a break from their laptops and talk to one another. 
 ''The more people are in front of computers and technologies all day, the more they long for human interaction,'' Mr. Rubinfeld said. 
 Naturally, some Wall Street analysts are skeptical that new decor and a smarter real estate strategy can help Starbucks overcome its most pressing problems. 
 ''I don't think people aren't going there because they don't like the way a store looks,'' said Nicole Miller Regan, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. ''I think they get turned off by price and by waiting in lines that keep getting disrupted by a food order.'' 
 But Mr. Schultz and Mr. Rubinfeld say the path out of Starbucks's mess leads back to its past -- re-establishing the company as a responsible social citizen and its stores as a pleasant place for (real and aspiring) young professionals to relax. 
 ''When we have been doing our best work, it has been because people have seen Starbucks for more than a cup of coffee,'' Mr. Schultz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Howard Schultz, left, reclaimed the job of chief executive of Starbucks, he rehired Arthur Rubinfeld to help restore the company to its former success, which they had helped to create.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In an effort to revive Starbucks, Mr. Rubinfeld says, he will focus on adding stores to urban areas, to attract affluent young professionals, and begin to tailor new stores to specific neighborhoods.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (84%); STARBUCKS CORP (58%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (84%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1259 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Forecast By Mayor On Deficit Is Disputed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
On Oct. 21, two days before the City Council voted by a thin margin to allow Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to seek a third term, the mayor sounded an alarm on the city's economy.
 New York City's annual budget deficit, he said, would swell by $500 million during the current fiscal year because of weakening tax revenues.
 At the time, the worsening picture seemed to strengthen his central argument for changing term limits -- a vulnerable city needed his steady hand and business background for four more years. 
 But some of those inside and outside the administration say that Mr. Bloomberg's remarks were inaccurate and may have painted a more dire financial situation than was warranted. Interviews with these people show that the city does not expect any budget deficit in the current fiscal year, which began July 1.
 In fact, data that was provided to the city about the same time the mayor was speaking showed the city's tax revenue grew at an unexpectedly brisk pace during July, August and September.
 During that time, the city took in at least $200 million more than it had planned for, data and interviews show. Much of the unexpected revenue stemmed from sales, personal income and property transfer taxes.
 Of course, the city could face deficits reaching into the billions in 2010 and beyond as a result of the global financial crisis, as layoffs mount, consumer spending falls and tourism slows.
 But several economists said they were mystified by Mr. Bloomberg's statement. Marcia Van Wagner, a deputy in the New York City comptroller's office who focuses on budget issues, said that ''it is extremely unlikely that the city would end the year in deficit.''
 She said that tax revenue would certainly fall later this year, but that surplus funds now slated to be used in the 2010 fiscal year could offset any shortfall this year, ''as can other reserves that are normally freed up during the year,'' she said. 
 Ms. Van Wagner also noted that the mayor has already requested $500 million worth of spending cuts from city agencies this year, which could be used to close any budget gaps. 
 Asked why the mayor said the city faces a deficit this year, aides said that Mr. Bloomberg may have been referring instead to his expectation that revenues would be lower than the city forecast. But even if the mayor were referring to a potential falloff in this year's tax receipts, the $500 million number is a greater decline than what many city officials and economists predict.
 Mr. Bloomberg's Oct. 21 remarks carried significant weight, and prompted articles in The Daily News and The New York Post about the city's worsening economy.
 Both articles reported that the city's budget deficit would swell by $500 million, and mayoral aides never sought to correct those stories.
 ''I can tell you,'' the mayor said, ''that our deficit -- we originally had '09 balanced. Now we've got a $500 million hole in it.''
 Mr. Bloomberg added that ''tax revenues are certainly not stronger and look to be a little bit lower than what they had projected to be.''
 A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, said Mr. Bloomberg is given regular updates on revenue receipts and was receiving data throughout October on the city's fiscal outlook. 
 Mr. Loeser, however, declined to say whether the mayor had received the surprisingly strong first-quarter revenue data before he spoke on Oct. 21.
 ''One can debate the semantics, but when the mayor spoke, the Office of Management and Budget had discussed with him $500 million less in revenue for fiscal year 2009,'' Mr. Loeser said. 
 Two days after Mr. Bloomberg's downbeat fiscal description, the Council voted to extend term limits to 12 years from 8, with many lawmakers pointing to the city's growing budgetary woes and the need to keep leaders like Mr. Bloomberg in place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (67%); LAYOFFS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1260 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: New Registrations Give Georgia Blacks More Power at the Polls

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: LITHONIA, Ga. 

 BODY:
Just a few blocks off Max Cleland Boulevard, named for the Democrat defeated by Senator Saxby Chambliss in a bitter Congressional race six years ago, a line has formed that could be problematic for Mr. Chambliss's own re-election this year.
 Hundreds of voters, most of them black residents of bedroom communities east of Atlanta, are waiting to cast early ballots, motivated by the candidacy of Senator Barack Obama but many also taking the opportunity to vote for Jim Martin, Mr. Chambliss's Democratic opponent.
 ''I voted for Jim because I like what he is saying, not just because he is Democratic,'' Iris Epps said as she exited Lithonia Middle School after waiting about 90 minutes on Tuesday evening to cast her ballot. She said the wait would have been even longer earlier in the day.
 Like several other Senate and House candidates in North Carolina, Ohio and Connecticut, Mr. Chambliss finds himself in a tight race even though only months ago he was considered a cinch for re-election. A significant part of his problem is the surging participation by African-American voters, their ranks bolstered by the newly registered, a group expected to vote overwhelmingly for Democrats this year. 
 In Georgia, where Mr. Obama's organization worked hard to register new voters but did not mount a full-blown campaign because the state seems beyond his reach, black voters in Atlanta and the surrounding areas have been standing in line for hours. Many are among the tens of thousands of newly registered voters.
 New registrations of black voters ran more than 25 percent higher this year than four years ago, with especially high registration among black women.
 Nearly 1.4 million Georgians have voted, according to the Georgia Secretary of State's Office, and more than a third were black. (Blacks make up just over 29 percent of registered voters in the state, which keeps track of racial data under civil rights laws.) Early voting began Sept. 22, and this week the state opened extra polling stations and extended their hours.
 The development is not lost on Mr. Chambliss. ''There has always been a rush to the polls by African-Americans early,'' he said at the square in Covington, a quick stop on a bus tour as the campaign entered its final week. He predicted the crowds of early voters would motivate Republicans to turn out. ''It has also got our side energized, they see what is happening,'' he said.
 Mr. Martin, who stood in a daunting line on Tuesday to cast his own early ballot at the Fulton County government center in Atlanta, said the greater the turnout, the better his chances. 
 ''I am honored to have a lot of African-American support,'' said Mr. Martin, a former director of the state Human Services Department and a longtime state legislator who was greeted with handshakes and encouragement by waiting voters as he worked his way to the end of the queue snaking through the building. ''But I have broad-based support across the state -- people who want change.'' 
 The Georgia race was initially considered out of reach for Democrats. But Mr. Chambliss has been hurt by his vote for the $700 billion Wall Street bailout -- which was widely unpopular, both among conservatives and African-Americans -- and by a flood of tough attack advertisements from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. The contest is one of the longshots Democrats would need to win to reach a 60-vote majority in the Senate that would let them thwart filibusters.
 ''A month ago this would have been a cakewalk,'' said Merle Black, an expert on Southern politics at Emory University. ''This is not the election that they thought they were running.'' 
 The Georgia race has another twist. To be declared the winner, a candidate needs to receive more than 50 percent of the vote -- an absolute majority. Both the tight race reflected in the polls and the presence of a third-party Libertarian candidate, Allen Buckley, raise the possibility that neither Mr. Chambliss nor Mr. Martin will break 50 percent, forcing a runoff on Dec. 2. If a 60-vote Senate hangs in the balance, the runoff could take on outsized importance.
 Mr. Chambliss and his allies acknowledge a rough patch after his bailout vote, which was uniformly opposed by Republican House members from the state, a glaring divide the senator quickly sought to bridge through a stepped-up schedule of appearances. 
 As he spoke to small but politically active crowds of conservatives in Covington and Conyers this week, Mr. Chambliss assured his audiences that survey trends were in his favor. But he urged them to beat the bushes for every available Republican vote.
 ''It is important that you talk to everybody you are friends with, you work with, you go to church with, you drink coffee with, whatever it may be, and make sure that on Nov. 4 they turn out to vote,'' Mr. Chambliss exhorted a flag-waving group gathered in Covington's town square, warning against a liberal takeover of Washington.
 Mr. Martin has, with the help of national Democrats, hammered Mr. Chambliss for his support of Bush administration economic policies, most recently with highly visible television commercials attributing Georgia job losses and economic pain to ''Saxby economics.''
 Democrats would revel in defeating Mr. Chambliss. In 2002, they accused him of libeling Mr. Cleland, a badly wounded and decorated Vietnam veteran, with an advertisement that questioned his commitment to fighting terrorism. They now view Mr. Martin as the potential key to a 60-vote Senate, a distinction with which Mr. Martin seems slightly uncomfortable.
 ''I think that is overstated,'' said Mr. Martin, who said he does not see himself as a filibuster warrior but as someone with a bipartisan history and a lawmaker who would ''go up to the United States Senate and stick up for the middle-class Georgian.'' 
 As in Senate races in North Carolina and Mississippi and a handful of House races, Democrats are closely monitoring African-American participation, calculating that a significantly increased turnout could tip the balance for their candidates.
 Mr. Black, the political scientist, said that if strongly Democratic African-American voters make up more than a third of the electorate, Mr. Martin needs to secure about a quarter or slightly more of the white vote to assemble a majority. ''It is certainly doable,'' Mr. Black said.
 The black voters who waited patiently at the Lithonia Middle School seemed aware of the difference their votes could make.
 ''This is the most important election,'' said Cathy Blakeney of Stone Mountain, who not only voted herself but made sure her 22-year-old son showed up as well. ''Based on the economic conditions and people losing their jobs and people losing their homes and the economy not growing and banks going under, I was going to make sure that I came out and voted and that he came out and voted, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Saxby Chambliss campaigned Tuesday in Conyers, Ga. Mr. Chambliss, a Republican, is facing a challenge from Jim Martin, a Democrat.
Mr. Chambliss finds himself in a tight race because of surging participation by black voters.
 Jim Martin, Mr. Chambliss's Democratic opponent, speaking Wednesday in Statesboro, Ga. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); COUNTIES (72%)

PERSON: SAXBY CHAMBLISS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1261 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Misperception

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Behavioral Revolution'' (column, Oct. 28):
 David Brooks gets it right: all perception (visual, psychological, intellectual) is a matter of interpretation, not fact. 
 We humans are often blind to anything that challenges our preconceived notions: we are predisposed to see what we already believe to be true based on a ''remembered past.'' As such, we are not wired to predict the future with any degree of accuracy. 
 The collective faith placed in Alan Greenspan over the long period that he was chairman of the Federal Reserve is a glaring example of how wishful thinking translates into perceived reality. 
 Mr. Greenspan should be ''shocked,'' but not by the failure of his predictions. He should be shocked by the strength of his conviction that so many others would see the world as he does. Ian Hughes 
 New York, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 According to David Brooks, the financial crisis was caused by errors of perception on the part of individual investors and banks. It amounts, he suggests, to a coming-out party for behavioral economics, the study of perceptual biases in economic decision-making. 
 Behavioral economics has much to recommend it. But attributing the meltdown largely to individuals' errors would itself be a mistake.
 Housing bubbles -- like the one precipitating the current mess -- are all too consistent with full rationality on an individual level: if a bank anticipates that a borrower will refinance his mortgage loan should the price of his house rise, it may lend him money even though it knows he can't pay it back. 
 The bank understands that the price cannot go up forever, but the loan will be profitable (in expectation) as long as there is a good chance of a further increase before the crash.
 Of course, such loans -- although perfectly rational for individual banks -- are collectively disastrous for the banking industry and the economy. That is why the most serious error behind the crisis was the failure by government to prevent these loans from being made in the first place. Eric Maskin 
 Princeton, N.J., Oct. 28, 2008
 The writer, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study, received the 2007 Nobel in economic science.
 To the Editor:
 In David Brooks's analysis of the ''four steps to every decision,'' he defines the third step as ''you calculate which course is in your best interest.''
 No doubt this is what many people often attempt. Some, however, make decisions based on the common good, even when they realize it is against self-interest. Or they make a decision that is for the good of another at their own expense or peril. 
 A well-insured person in the top tax bracket may vote for a candidate who will tax him more in order to help furnish many uninsured people with health care. Not everybody makes decisions like the culprits in the Wall Street debacle. Katharine Flanders Mukherji 
 Brooklyn, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's delineation of the decision-making process left out one important step, the one between Step 3 and Step 4: You consider the consequences to others of that decision. This is what I have been taught and have taught my children. Hilda Blyn 
 New York, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks gives us a fine analysis of some of the variables confounding the free-market system, but he doesn't mention the most important requirement for such a system to work: total transparency. 
 No one can calculate his own self-interest if the information needed for such a calculation is unavailable or deliberately twisted or hidden. This was the basis of the current crash, more than intrinsic limitations in the way the human brain works. 
 No free-market system can work anywhere if a lack of total transparency allows some people to game the system with access to information unavailable to others. Dan Agin 
 Chicago, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks writes that in the lead-up to the financial crisis, ''traders misperceived the possibility of rare events.'' He adds, ''They got caught in social contagions and reinforced each other's risk assessments.'' 
 I would add that our global financial system developed layers of misaligned incentives that led to excessive market risk, from chief executives with golden parachutes to debt originators that had no stake in whether their loans were ever paid back. 
 The current crisis proves again that free markets left to their own devices do not inevitably lead to the social good.
 Mr. Brooks laments the perceptive ability of government officials to ''slant the decision-making architecture'' to produce results beneficial to society. Flawed as the system is, government plays a crucial role in adjusting the goal posts periodically to adapt to new circumstances. David Maltby 
 New York, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Many essays have been written recently attempting to explain the financial catastrophe gripping the global economy. Even a suddenly chastened erstwhile oracle named Alan Greenspan has weighed in with a partial mea culpa. 
 Absent in all the psychologizing, navel-gazing and finger-pointing is an acknowledgment of the role played by one of the basest of human traits. It may be cynical to assume that Mammon works on Wall Street, but it is rarely wrong.
 Paul Bloustein 
 Cincinnati, Oct. 28, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks's observation that the financial crisis stems from failure to accurately perceive the situation brought to mind a quote, attributed to Satchel Paige, that I've had on my wall for many years: ''It's not what you don't know that hurts you. It's what you know that just ain't so.'' Bruce Harville 
 Madison, Wis., Oct. 28, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTEO PERICOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1262 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Netflix and TiVo to Announce Partnership to Send Movies Instantly to TV Sets

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Two of the scrappiest bantamweights in Silicon Valley, Netflix and TiVo, are expected to announce a long-awaited partnership on Thursday.
 Netflix will place its Watch Instantly streaming-movie service on TiVo's HD-compatible set-top boxes, furthering the technology industry's goal of sending television shows and movies over the Internet -- instead of over traditional cable and satellite networks -- to ordinary TVs.
 Netflix, based in Los Gatos, Calif., is more widely known for its DVD subscription service that mails discs in familiar red envelopes. But it has lately been expanding its digital offerings, and now has 12,000 movies and television shows that subscribers can view instantly over the Web on their PCs without charge. 
 Netflix and TiVo said they would begin testing the service on Thursday and expected to make it available to all owners of TiVo set-top boxes in December. There will be no extra charge for TiVo subscribers who also have one of Netflix's unlimited subscription plans, which start at $8.99 a month.
 For TiVo, based in Alviso, Calif., the partnership helps complement a growing stable of Internet content. Owners of TiVo boxes can already rent or buy films and TV shows over the Internet from Amazon.com, Walt Disney Studios and Jaman.com, a provider of independent and art films, and play them on TV.
 TiVo has another component of its business as well -- selling its software to cable and satellite providers, many of whom offer their own generic, lower-priced DVRs to their customers. This year, TiVo won a $104 million judgment in a patent-infringement lawsuit against Dish Networks, which should help it get better bargaining terms as it tries to get other cable and satellite operators to use its technology.
 People who get TiVo's service on a partner's set-top box, like DirecTV's or Comcast's, will not have access to the Netflix video service. TiVo hopes that Internet deals like its Netflix partnership can help it sell more of its own devices, which make up only a fraction of the DVR market.
 ''For us this is very much aimed at new customers,'' said Tom Rogers, chief executive of TiVo. ''There are nine million Netflix subscribers out there who are movie lovers and who want something that really adds juice to their overall television experience.''
 The deal further extends Netflix's Watch Instantly service -- the inevitable successor to its DVD-by-mail franchise. In the last year, it has signed deals to digitally deliver its catalog to high-definition Blu-ray DVD players from LG Electronics and Samsung Electronics, and to subscribers of Microsoft's Xbox Live Internet gaming service. Netflix has also invested in Roku, a start-up that manufactures a $99 set-top box that brings Netflix's streaming service to TVs.
 Recently, Netflix has been hobbled by the economic downturn. It reported last week that it added far fewer subscribers during its third quarter than it had promised, and its stock has dropped by about 40 percent in the last month.
 There is a certain irony in the partnership between TiVo and Netflix. In 2004, well before the current industry scrum over bringing digital video into people's homes, Netflix and TiVo worked together to develop a prototype Internet film-delivery service. The effort was plagued by licensing and technology hurdles and never came to fruition.
 ''That was a great testament to the over-optimism of technologists like me,'' said Reed Hastings, Netflix's chief executive, recalling the earlier partnership. ''The market just wasn't ready and our ambitions got a little ahead of us. We couldn't get enough rights to make it commercially interesting.''
 Now, he said, Netflix has a growing portfolio of programs available for digital streaming and last month added a catalog of 2,500 films from the Starz cable network. ''I think every idea has its time and our time is now,'' Mr. Hastings said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); FILM (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); CD & DVD DRIVES (89%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); PATENTS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (71%); PATENT LAW (64%); LITIGATION (64%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (96%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); LGLD (LSE) (50%); 066570 (KSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (96%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1263 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Following the Script: Obama, McCain and 'The West Wing'

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
When Eli Attie, a writer for ''The West Wing,'' prepared to plot some episodes about a young Democratic congressman's unlikely presidential bid, he picked up the phone and called David Axelrod. 
 Mr. Attie, a former speechwriter for Vice President Al Gore, and Mr. Axelrod, a political consultant, had crossed campaign trails before. ''I just called him and said, 'Tell me about Barack Obama,' '' Mr. Attie said. 
 Days after Mr. Obama, then an Illinois state senator, delivered an address to the 2004 Democratic National Convention, the two men held several long conversations about his refusal to be defined by his race and his aspirations to bridge the partisan divide. Mr. Axelrod was then working on Mr. Obama's campaign for the United States Senate; he is now Mr. Obama'a chief strategist. 
 Four years later, the writers of ''The West Wing'' are watching in amazement as the election plays out. The parallels between the final two seasons of the series (it ended its run on NBC in May 2006) and the current political season are unmistakable. Fiction has, once again, foreshadowed reality. 
 Watching ''The West Wing'' in retrospect -- all seven seasons are available on DVD, and episodes can be seen in syndication -- viewers can see allusions to Mr. Obama in almost every facet of Matthew Santos, the Hispanic Democratic candidate played by Jimmy Smits. Santos is a coalition-building Congressional newcomer who feels frustrated by the polarization of Washington. A telegenic and popular fortysomething with two young children, Santos enters the presidential race and eventually beats established candidates in a long primary campaign. 
 Wearing a flag pin, Santos announces his candidacy by telling supporters, ''I am here to tell you that hope is real.'' And he adds, ''In a life of trial, in a world of challenges, hope is real.'' Viewers can almost hear the crowd cheering, ''Yes, we can.'' 
 Comparisons between Senator John McCain and the ''West Wing'' Republican candidate, Arnold Vinick, a white-haired Senate stalwart with an antitax message and a reputation for delivering ''straight talk'' to the press, also abound. Vinick, played by Alan Alda, is deemed a threat to Democrats because of his ability to woo moderate voters. And he takes great pride in his refusal to pander to voters, telling an aide: ''People know where I stand. They may not like it, but they know I'll stick with it.'' 
 Even the vice-presidential picks are similar: the Democrat picks a Washington veteran as his vice presidential candidate to add foreign policy expertise to the ticket, while the Republican selects a staunchly conservative governor to shore up the base. 
 Certainly some of the parallels are coincidental. It is unlikely, for example, that the writers knew Mr. Obama had an affection for Bob Dylan when they made Santos a Dylan fan. But it is the unintentional similarities that make the DVDs of the sixth and seventh seasons, which at the time received mixed reviews, so rewarding to watch now. In both ''The West Wing'' and in real life, for example, the Phillies played in the World Series during the election campaign. 
 As the primaries unfolded this year, ''I saw the similarities right away,'' said Lawrence O'Donnell, a producer and writer for the series who has appeared on MSNBC as a political analyst. Mr. O'Donnell had used Mr. McCain as one of the templates for the Vinick character in the episodes he wrote, though he said that ''McCain's resemblance to the Vinick character was much stronger in 2000 than in 2008.'' 
 Echoing the criticism Mr. McCain faced during the primaries, a White House aide in ''The West Wing'' contends that Vinick is ''not conservative enough'' for the Republican base. Sometimes the two candidates' situations are almost identical: when the press starts asking where Vinick attends church, he tells his staff that ''I haven't gone to church for a while.'' Asked in July by The New York Times about the frequency of his church attendance, Mr. McCain said, ''Not as often as I should.'' 
 Mr. Alda and Mr. McCain are the same age. When a hard-edged strategist played by Janeane Garofalo joins the Santos campaign, she immediately alludes to Vinick's age. ''He's been in the Senate for like 90 years. He was practically born in a committee room,'' she says.
 In the same way that Obama surrogates have subtly knocked Mr. McCain's lack of computer skills, the Garofalo character remarks to the Santos campaign manager, Josh Lyman: ''Why are you always talking about high-tech jobs? Because Vinick uses a manual typewriter.'' 
 Conversely, Santos staffers talk about getting video of the candidate with his ''adorable young children hugging their hale and vital dad.'' The casting of Mr. Smits introduced story lines about the prospect of a minority president. But when an aide suggests a fund-raising drive in a Latino community, Santos snaps: ''I don't want to just be the brown candidate. I want to be the American candidate.'' The Obama campaign has made similar assertions. 
 Still, ''The West Wing'' -- like Mr. Obama -- does not ignore racial issues entirely. In the seventh season Santos delivers a speech on race at a critical moment for his campaign, and staffers privately worry that voters will lie about their willingness to vote for a minority candidate. 
 If the show sometimes seems like a political fantasy -- a real debate where politicians are required to answer questions? a candidate rejecting an attack ad? -- it also reflects the tenor of the real-life campaign season. 
 Santos wins the nomination only after a lengthy fight on the convention floor, an inexact parallel to Obama's extended primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Just as the Obama campaign pivoted to the economy this fall, Lyman tells Santos staffers that ''this new economic message may be our ticket,'' and he winds up being right. An economic crisis does not ensue, but back-to-back emergencies on ''The West Wing'' -- a nuclear power plant malfunction and a dispute in Kazakhstan -- bring to mind the election-defining qualities of the actual economic crisis. 
 ''Dramatically, they are exactly the same thing: the unforseeable,'' Mr. O'Donnell said. 
 As President Bush did during the bailout talks, Jed Bartlet, the Democratic ''West Wing'' president played by Martin Sheen, brings both candidates to the White House for a briefing. Facing the prospect of deploying 150,000 American soldiers to Kazakhstan three weeks before the election, Vinick grumbles, ''I can say goodbye to my tax cut.'' He tells Santos, ''Your education plan's certainly off the table.''
 Santos emerges victorious weeks later, but only after a grueling election night. Online, some ''West Wing'' fans are wondering whether the show will wind up forecasting the real-life result as well. In Britain, where the series remains popular in syndication, a recent headline on a blog carried by the newspaper The Telegraph declared: ''Barack Obama will win: It's all in 'The West Wing.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jimmy Smits, left, as the Democratic presidential nominee, debating Alan Alda, as his Republican opponent, in the final season of the NBC series ''The West Wing.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MITCHELL HADDAD/NBC UNIVERSAL)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); CHILDREN (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: West Wing (TV Program)>; West Wing (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1264 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Profit Jumps At Comcast On Rate Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The Comcast Corporation, the nation's largest cable operator, reported a 38 percent increase in third-quarter earnings on Wednesday, helped by a sharp decline in capital spending and higher cable TV rates. 
 Comcast also said it expected to exceed its forecast for at least 20 percent growth in free cash flow in the 2008 fiscal year.
 Brian L. Roberts, the chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts that the company had adequate financial reserves to weather the economic crisis.
 ''We do not need to access the capital markets any time for the foreseeable future. We have significant free cash flow and liquidity,'' Mr. Roberts said.
 Still, the company, mindful of the tight credit market, said it would not use all the funds its board had approved to buy back shares by the end of 2009. Instead, it will proceed more cautiously depending on market conditions. Comcast has $4.1 billion remaining in the repurchase program.
 In the quarter, Comcast earned $771 million, or 26 cents a share, compared with $560 million, or 18 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue was up 10 percent, to $8.55 billion, from $7.78 billion. 
 Analysts had expected a profit of 22 cents a share and slightly higher revenue of $8.59 billion, according to a ThomsonReuters poll.
 Shares of Comcast, which is based in Philadelphia, fell $1.68, or 9.9 percent, to close at $15.28. 
 Craig Moffett, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said the third-quarter results were ''good but not great,'' but added that cable stocks remained a good place to be in an uncertain economy.
 ''Where else do you expect to have a more stable set of cash flows?'' said Mr. Moffett.
 In the quarter, Comcast reported operating cash flow of $3.24 billion, up 10 percent, while free cash flow rose by 77 percent, to $928 million. Capital spending fell 14 percent, to $1.3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); APPROVALS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1265 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: An Infomercial, Big, Glossy and Almost Unavoidable

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama broadcast a half-hour prime time infomercial on Wednesday on three of the major broadcast networks -- Fox, NBC and CBS -- as well as Univision, BET, TV One and MSNBC. It was the first program of its kind in 16 years.
 THE PROGRAM The program gave a new meaning to the word ''infomercial'' and, for that matter, to all notions of political advertising. Executed with high standards of cinematography, with help from the director of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' Davis Guggenheim, the infomercial was part slickly produced reality program; part Lifetime biography; and part wonkish policy lecture with music that could have come from ''The West Wing.'' 
 Its imagery was acutely Middle American: suburban lawns, American flags, corn fields and factories. It was packed with swing state and Midwestern governors and senators who spoke in glowing terms of Mr. Obama; a brigadier general, now retired, vouched for his national security credentials. 
 At the heart of the program were the stories of four everyday families of different backgrounds who told stories of lost health care benefits, the necessities of food rationing and the need to hold more than one job. Mr. Obama told how his mother had to worry about whether the health care provider at her new job would cover her as she battled ovarian cancer. And he retold his background as the grandson of a man who fought in ''Patton's Army'' and a grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line in World War II. 
 But for much of the program Mr. Obama stood before a presidential desk as he laid out his tax plans, health care plans and his approach to world affairs, saying that, as commander in chief, ''I'll renew the tough, direct diplomacy that can prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and curb Russian aggression.'' 
 In somewhat jarring fashion, the infomercial ended with Mr. Obama addressing an auditorium audience in Florida, live.
 ANALYSIS As in his speech in Berlin and his stadium nomination speech last summer, Mr. Obama's campaign was again practicing its brand of big-event politics with this infomercial: Taking over a huge chunk of the television dial in an effort to make a closing sale with an audience that was likely to be well into the millions. And like the gambits before it, the advertisement held risks just by definition of what it was: A giant financial outlay that made Mr. Obama almost unavoidable to television viewers who are by now weary from all these many months of politicking. 
 Because Mr. Obama is already running the most intensive and wide-ranging presidential advertising campaign in history, with electronic billboards for his candidacy showing up even in home video games, it raised the obvious question, ''How much is too much?'' With a heavy-handed style of filmmaking devised to pull at heart strings as Mr. Obama ticked through the commercial's hard-luck stories, it risked seeming manipulative. 
 (Senator John McCain's campaign wasted no time in issuing a statement that read: ''As anyone who has bought anything from an infomercial knows, the sales-job is always better than the product. Buyer beware.'') 
 But at other times, the infomercial appeared to serve perhaps a safer, workmanlike purpose. With no attacks on Mr. McCain or his running mate, it was largely in keeping with Mr. Obama's strategic imperative this year: Make voters comfortable with the idea of him in the Oval Office while at the same time presenting him as a candidate who can connect with everyday, middle-class voters struggling through the toughest economic times in generations. 
 It would seem a fool's errand to score the success of the program immediately after it was shown. First impressions this year have at times proved to have short shelf lives, especially those shared in the news media. JIM RUTENBERG 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); INFOMERCIALS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ARMIES (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); GRANDPARENTS (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); FAMILY (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); FILM (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); CANCER (50%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1266 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: In a Final Round of Appeals, the Economy Dominates

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: SUNRISE, Fla. 

 BODY:
As he races across the country in the climax of a marathon campaign, Senator Barack Obama has honed a final message calling on America to ''turn the page'' on an era of ''greed and irresponsibility,'' tapping into populist sentiment while reassuring voters that he is no radical.
 His ''time for change'' closing argument in this moment of national anxiety focuses heavily on the economic issues that are at the core of voter concerns right now, skipping quickly past the questions of war and peace that animated his campaign when it started nearly two years ago.
 ''We've tried it John McCain's way, we've tried it George Bush's way, and it hasn't worked,'' Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, told thousands of supporters on Wednesday in Raleigh, N.C., his first stop of the day. ''That's why I'm running for president. Now, deep down, John McCain knows his economic theories don't work. That's why his campaign says, 'If we keep talking about the economy, we're going to lose.' That's why I keep on talking about the economy.'' 
 Mr. Obama added: ''Because he knows his economic theories don't work, he's been spending these last few days calling me every name in the book. Lately, he's called me a socialist for wanting to roll back the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans so we can finally give tax relief to the middle class. By the end of the week, he'll be accusing me of being a secret communist because I shared my toys in kindergarten.'' 
 As he devotes the waning days to Republican strongholds in the South and the West, Mr. Obama arranged for a show of unity by appearing with former President Bill Clinton at a late-night rally outside Orlando on Wednesday, the first time the two have campaigned together. (''Are you ready for a new president?'' Mr. Clinton told a large crowd as he showered praise on Mr. Obama.) The visual cue was a symbolic passing of the torch from the last Democratic president to the man who hopes to be the next one.
 The closing Obama speech is cautious, calibrated to cement the inroads he has made with voters whose comfort level with him has grown. Even as he sums up the case for his candidacy, Mr. Obama is seeking to defuse any remaining uncertainty about electing a largely untested first-term senator and dispel his critics' depiction of him as an inexperienced, unproven leader who would raise taxes, redistribute wealth and go soft on terrorists.
 ''In six days, we can choose hope over fear, unity over division, the promise of change over the power of the status quo,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking over loud applause here in a campaign address that doubled as a political infomercial that was broadcast in prime time. ''In six days, we can come together as one nation, and one people, and once more choose our better history.''
 Although Mr. Obama still reaches for lofty oratory in these three-a-day rallies, he also spends time explaining his tax policies in detail to rebut Mr. McCain. While he will raise taxes on the richest Americans, he says that any family earning less than $250,000 a year would not pay a dime more under his plan and that 95 percent of Americans would actually pay less. 
 To reinforce the point, he often asks for a show of hands of those who make less than $250,000, which usually means nearly everyone in the crowd. He sometimes goes on, as he did Tuesday in Harrisonburg, Va., to note that it includes ''98 percent of small businesses and 99.9 percent of plumbers,'' a reference to Mr. McCain's oft-expressed concern for the taxes of a man he has dubbed Joe the Plumber.
 Mr. Obama returns regularly to the themes of unity that first brought him to prominence in his keynote address to the Democratic National Convention in 2004. But as he tells audiences that it is time to ''come together as one nation'' again, he makes clear that togetherness does not necessarily extend to those he casts as the villains in a time of turmoil -- greedy Wall Street bankers, Washington lobbyists, billionaires, unscrupulous mortgage lenders and, foremost in his rendering, their handmaidens, Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain.
 ''For eight years, we've seen Washington take care of the extremely well-off and the extremely well-connected, and now my opponent's making the same arguments to justify the same old policies that have been a complete failure for the middle class,'' Mr. Obama said in Raleigh. ''I mean the arguments he's making now are the same arguments that George Bush makes -- all these years.''
 He added: ''John McCain wants to give more to billionaires, more to corporations that ship jobs overseas, more to the same people whose greed and irresponsibility got us into this crisis in the first place. We're here because we know they shouldn't get away with it any more.'' 
 Toward the end of his pitch to voters, Mr. Obama chides Mr. Bush for not calling on Americans to sacrifice after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. ''Even after the greatest attack on American soil since Pearl Harbor, all we were asked to do by our president was to go shopping,'' he said.
 Yet his message demands little specific sacrifice of Americans either, except the thin slice of those who make more than $250,000. Instead, he promises to give them more: lower taxes, lower health care premiums, more jobs, more fuel-efficient cars, better schools, higher teacher salaries, foreclosure assistance, affordable college tuition. The only detailed reference he makes to paying for all of this at a time of record budget deficits is his promise ''to stop spending $10 billion a month in Iraq.''
 ''I know that my opponent is worried about losing an election, but I'm worried about Americans who are losing their homes, and losing their jobs, and losing their life savings,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I'm worried about the middle class. And I won't just fight for your vote in the final days of the election, I will fight for you every single day that I'm in the White House.''
 The reference to spending in Iraq constitutes almost everything he says about the two wars America is fighting, though his opposition to the war played a considerable role in his appeal to Democrats during the primary.
 Measured as a matter of words, foreign policy occupies less than 5 percent of Mr. Obama's stump speech in this closing week. He promises to ''finally finish the fight against bin Laden and Al Qaeda'' and ''put them out of business'' without mentioning the words Afghanistan or Pakistan. Neither does he mention Iran, North Korea, Russia or other nations that pose major policy challenges.
 In Mr. Obama's telling, this is an election about America and whether it can pick itself up after so much tumult. ''It won't be easy,'' he said. ''It won't be quick. But you and I know that we can come together and change this country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (67%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1267 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Candidates' Positions on Student Loans Reflect Experience and Market Views

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Barack and Michelle Obama paid off their last student loan on Jan. 17, 2004, a date they sometimes share with voters to commiserate over rising tuitions and the fact that the average graduating senior carries $21,000 in college debt.
 Mr. Obama personally took out $42,753 in loans for Harvard Law School, on top of several thousand dollars for his undergraduate education at Columbia University. His Republican rival, Senator John McCain, graduated from the United States Naval Academy debt-free, because the public military academies charge no tuition. 
 While both presidential nominees say they are sensitive to the economic crisis that is crimping the college plans of American families, Mr. Obama portrays himself as the candidate who has endured the same heartburn over student loans as many voters, and he is offering more direct help to students and parents than Mr. McCain is.
 Yet Mr. Obama's proposals also come with some asterisks attached.
 He is calling for a $4,000 tax credit for tuition, which would mostly benefit middle-class families rather than low-income students who struggle the most with tuition increases and loan repayment. Recipients of the tax credit would have to perform 100 hours of community service. And it is not clear if Congress, in the current economy, would have the desire to enact the tuition tax credit, which would cost the Treasury an estimated $10 billion.
 ''Whoever wins will not have any money to do anything new,'' said Thomas G. Mortenson, a longtime independent analyst of student financial aid programs.
 As president, Mr. McCain would take a bully pulpit approach to student aid, aides say. Rather than propose any new federal money, he would jawbone and publicly try to coax colleges to slow their rate of tuition increases, using the federal tax exemptions they receive as leverage. He also would press for a more robust student loan market, with flexible payment options and more competition in the hope of lowering interest rates.
 Mr. McCain is also calling for the Pell Grant, which assists low-income students, to be high enough to cover in-state undergraduate tuition. The maximum Pell Grant award is $4,731 a year; average in-state tuition and required fees in 2007-8 was $5,749.
 Mr. McCain, however, has not proposed any new money for the Pell program; Mr. Obama has proposed an additional $1.5 billion in Pell Grants. The program now receives about $16 billion a year. 
 ''I have a feeling that for both candidates, their proposals will be a work in progress, and the best road ahead won't be clear until the dust settles on the credit market situation,'' said Becky Timmons, who helps oversee federal student aid issues at the American Council on Education, an umbrella group of colleges. ''Given the economic situation, we assume there will be a lot more demand for aid and loans.''
 While Mr. McCain has tried to caricature Mr. Obama as a redistributionist-minded liberal, seizing on Mr. Obama's recent remark that he would ''spread the wealth around,'' Mr. Obama is not adopting the classically liberal position of supporting the Pell Grant program above all other student aid. 
 Democrats have long disagreed over whether to shore up the Pell Grant first, given that it has the greatest impact on students, because they receive the money quickly and in time to pay for a semester's tuition. The benefits of a tax credit, meanwhile, usually come after the tuition bill is due (therefore mostly benefiting students and families who can pay tuition upfront). Mr. Obama would make his tax credit fully refundable, meaning that people who do not owe taxes would still receive the credit.
 Some aides to Congressional Democrats said they were skeptical that lawmakers would prefer to put new federal money into a tax credit rather than the Pell Grant.
 Asked if the $4,000 tuition tax credit was a viable idea in the current economic climate, Mr. Obama's domestic policy director, Neera Tanden, said: ''That's why Senator Obama talks about this as an economic issue. It's an issue of opportunity and fairness. He wants Americans to have the same opportunity he had, but he also is looking at education from the perspective of insuring our economic growth over the long term.''
 On the McCain side, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the campaign's chief economic adviser, said in an interview that Mr. McCain's plan on student aid was more realistic than Mr. Obama's, since improving the student loan market was far more achievable than enacting a $10 billion tax credit. And Mr. Holtz-Eakin questioned Mr. Obama's approach.
 ''How is he going to pay for everything he's proposing, especially given the economic climate?'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. ''Obama's plans don't add up.''
 Some college presidents said that the criticism of increases in tuition missed the point. Three college leaders, speaking in interviews, said neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. McCain had shown much appreciation for the business model of colleges: chiefly, that fixed costs for health care, energy and technology are making increases in tuition necessary, and that few students actually pay the full price of tuition.
 These college presidents, who spoke on condition of anonymity to express their views of the two men vying to be the country's next president, said too much of the discussion about student aid had been focused on the wealthiest universities that charge $40,000 or more a year (though, again, students rarely pay that because of the ''discount rate'' that many colleges provide). The critical issues, the three leaders said, are student access to credit at a time when the credit markets are in crisis and the need for more student grants and loans.
 Mr. McCain might be forgiven for paying less attention to the concerns of college officials. An analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics showed that college employees had donated $1.5 million to him, compared with $12.2 million to Mr. Obama.
 Mr. McCain received the most money from employees of the University of California, Harvard and Columbia. Mr. Obama's top institutions were California and Harvard; his alma mater, Columbia, came in fifth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); NAVIES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1268 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Facing a Loss in Alaska

BYLINE: By WELD ROYAL

 BODY:
The Alaska Native corporations have had Senator Ted Stevens to thank nearly every step of the way. 
 In 1971, a few years after he was first elected to the Senate, Mr. Stevens helped write the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. Also known as the ''Billion Dollar Deal,'' the act established more than 200 corporations to manage almost 45 million acres and gave $962 million to Alaska Natives in return for their ceding of all aboriginal land rights. 
 When the Alaska Native corporations struggled in their early years as they tried to turn people who had survived on fishing and hunting into business managers and to teach thousands of villagers to call themselves shareholders, Senator Stevens was there, too. 
 He helped corporations with financial difficulties by persuading Congress to approve a provision in the 1986 Tax Reform Act allowing the corporations to sell their accumulated tax losses to profitable companies seeking tax write-offs. 
 That same year, Senator Stevens introduced legislation that allowed Alaska Native corporations to participate in a Small Business Administration 8(a) contracting program, a provision that has proven lucrative to many of them.
 And just a month ago, in the wake of questions that some of the corporations were misusing the contracting program, he successfully pushed Congress to remove a provision from the 2009 Defense Authorization Act that would have limited their access.
 After his conviction on Monday on charges he violated federal ethics laws by failing to report tens of thousands of dollars in gifts and services he had received from friends, Senator Stevens's future in Congress is uncertain. 
 But Louis A. Thompson, 72, who has run one of the corporations, Kavilco Inc., for 36 years, said the companies had grown into sophisticated operations that could stand on their own. ''Senator Stevens was very helpful early on and not just to Alaska Native corporations, to all Alaskans,'' he said. ''But times have changed.'' 
 Indeed, the Alaska Native corporations have made strides since the early days, when they built seafood plants before negotiating for fish deliveries and constructed hotels in remote villages that had never seen tourists. Today, they consistently rank among state's largest businesses. The small-business 8(a) contracting program has been important to that success. 
 As of May, 187 Alaska Native-owned companies were participating in the 8(a) program, according to a report by the Small Business Administration's Office of Inspector General. From 2000 to 2006, Alaska Native corporations won nearly $13 billion in federal contracts.
 Maver E. Carey, 41, the leader of one of those corporations, sees the federal contracts as the future of her business. And other small corporations are looking to her to help them navigate the complicated and expensive path to federal business. 
 Her enterprise, the Kuskokwim Corporation, represents Aniak and nine other remote Alaska communities. Its responsibilities cover a geographic area larger than New England, but without cellphone towers, major road systems or many jobs. ''In Kalskag, one of our largest villages, there are 80 homes and 40 of them don't have running water,'' Ms. Carey said.
 Kuskokwim's 2,903 shareholders want regular corporate dividends, and many also seek educational and employment opportunities from the corporation. 
 Kuskokwim was founded in 1977 when 10 village corporations decided that they did not have the staff or resources to build businesses alone. The merged entity formed a headquarters in Anchorage and eked out dividends primarily through investments in Alaska real estate and a conservative portfolio of stocks and bonds. 
 Ms. Carey, whose maternal grandparents are Yupik Eskimo and Athabascan Indian, turned to Kuskokwim in 1994 after earning a college degree, working for an engineering firm and being laid off. ''My village corporation offered me $9 an hour and I took it thinking I'd continue to look for a real job,'' she said. By 2003, after she had worked in every corporate department, the board asked her to become the chief executive.
 She pushed diversification, with a goal of building Kuskokwim's shareholder equity to $100 million by 2015. Last year, it topped $18 million, up from $14 million in 2006. In 2005, the company started TKC Development Inc. to focus on federal contracting. TKC subsidiaries have won work from the United States Navy and the Army Corps of Engineers. 
 Last year, Ms. Carey started an Alaska Native village corporation association. Her inspiration came from conversations with other chief executives facing challenges similar to her own. A membership drive under way has registered about 50 Native corporation executives.
 Their goal is to be as successful as the Afognak Native Corporation, one of Alaska's largest businesses. Afognak is owned by 700 shareholders descended from the Alutiiq people of the Kodiak Archipelago. In 2006, its profits reached $18.8 million on revenue of $537.9 million, the latest figures available. That year, each shareholder received a dividend payment of $21,688. Afognak employs 5,000 people globally, and about 50 of them are shareholders. 
 Afognak is now run by a non-native chief executive with significant government experience. It won the first of its major contracts in 2000, when it secured a deal to operate Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico. In recent years, it has won a contract to build a brigade combat team complex worth more than $100 million at Fort Bragg, N.C., and another worth more than $50 million to renovate the United States Embassy in Sao Paulo.
 Still, there have been questions about the 8(a) contracts that have gone to Afognak and other Alaska Native companies. A 2006 study by the federal Government Accountability Office called for better S.B.A. supervision of Alaska Native corporations that hold 8(a) contracts. The agency's inspector general is currently conducting an audit of S.B.A. oversight of 10 to 15 of the largest Alaska Native corporations engaged in federal contracting.
 In August, it found that two companies, Goldbelt Raven L.L.C., owned by Goldbelt Inc. of Juneau, and APM L.L.C., a subsidiary of the Cape Fox Corporation of Ketchikan, violated terms of the contracting program by entering into agreements that resulted in millions of dollars in 8(a) revenues being paid to companies owned by non-native managers. The administration suspended them from the program and moved to end their eligibility. Both companies are appealing the move, according to officials representing Goldbelt and APM.
 Steve Colt, the interim director at the Institute of Social and Economic Research at University of Alaska, who has studied Alaska Native corporations, said that many of the corporations struggled to stay afloat in their first two decades of operations and that Mr. Stevens and the rest of the Alaska delegation worked hard to keep them in business. 
 ''If you look at the historical record, there were lots of incidents of Stevens being very helpful to Alaska Native corporations,'' Mr. Colt said. ''But I suspect that the number of assists has decreased over time.'' He predicted that whoever holds the United States Senate seat for Alaska in the future will fight for legislation that protects Alaska Native corporations because they now have a major impact on the state's economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maver Carey is president and chief executive of Kuskokwim, an Alaskan Native-run corporation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BOROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (72%); ETHICS (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); TAX REFORM (68%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008



1269 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; YOUR SECOND HOME SKI-SEASON RENTALS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Spots by Slopes Still a Draw

BYLINE: By BILLIE COHEN

 BODY:
HAVE you put your ski home up for rental yet? Vacationers have already started booking in major mountain areas in California, Vermont, Idaho and Colorado. And, depending on where your home is, you could be facing some competition. Here's how things stand.
 Despite the sagging economy, the rental market appears to be holding its own. ''We're all anticipating that it's going to be tight due to the tough economy,'' said Bob Barnes, chief executive of the vacation-rental Web site Zonder (www.zonder.com). ''But that's why consumers tend to migrate to vacation rentals, because it's a more affordable option over hotel destinations.'' 
 And, like second-home owners, vacationers are drawn to regions within driving distance of their primary residences -- travel is simply cheaper without airfare. ''We have more bookings from the Bay Area, because people aren't flying; they're driving to Tahoe,'' said Danielle Poret, a reservations specialist with the Hauserman Rental Group in North Lake Tahoe. 
 In Stowe, Vt., Ken Libby, who owns Stowe Realty, has also seen an increase in rentals. ''It's drive time from New York, Boston and Baltimore, and that makes a huge difference,'' he said. ''Until they go flat broke, they're going to take their vacations, and if they can do it without getting on a plane, even better.''
 In fact, Mr. Libby has more demand than supply for rentals so far this year. He has had to advertise twice in the past two months to acquire more inventory to rent out. ''It's better than ever,'' he said, ''and increasing.''
 However, that phenomenon isn't consistent nationwide. In Sun Valley, Idaho, Anita Northwood, who owns and manages High Country Resort Properties, is experiencing the opposite. ''We have more inventory because a lot of people that were hoping to sell their house have not sold it,'' she said. ''And rather than selling them for less, they're putting them back into the rental pool.''
 What is consistent is that high-end rentals -- short and long term -- are booking well. ''At the high end,'' Ms. Northwood added, ''prices are still holding up because those people aren't affected as much by the economy. At the middle to lower range, we're seeing more people are looking for deals or discounts.''
 Mr. Barnes has noted the same trend online. ''You don't normally see discounted rates during the peak season, but we're already seeing a lot of discounts,'' he said. ''Breckenridge and Whistler are already offering substantial discounts, 15 to 30 percent.'' And they're doing it pre-emptively, he said, anticipating a fairly light booking season. 
 Potential renters haven't been shy about asking for deals, either. ''People don't want to book for as long as usual,'' said Ms. Poret, who added that some homeowners have reduced minimum rental periods from seven to five nights. ''And homeowners have told us they're willing to negotiate rates if people are unsure,'' going down by 10 or even 25 percent. 
 Ms. Northwood has also spoken to her property owners recently about the need to be flexible. ''If they're pragmatic and realistic, they should be more apt to bring the price down in this economic period,'' she said. ''It's very competitive because there's so much inventory.'' 
 To that end, she has suggested to her clients, for example, that instead of asking a nightly rate of $5,000, they accept $4,000 to secure the rental. And, she added, if it's a high-end property like that, renters are planning well in advance and booking now; some homeowners, she said, are already nervous that they don't have people in a rental yet for Christmas, the busiest time of the season. (Although it's worth noting that both Mr. Barnes of Zonder and Ms. Poret of the Hauserman Group see a trend of middle- and lower-end rentals being booked at the last minute.)
 So what should second-home owners do to make sure their ski houses rent out? Location, of course, is crucial in ski real estate. But if you can't quite bring the mountain to your guests, at least you can woo them with amenities. ''Spend the money and have it well appointed,'' Mr. Libby said. ''Put in a couple flat-screen TVs and a hot tub.'' 
 As he pointed out, during Christmas week in Stowe, you can ask $300 per bedroom per night for a house with all the amenities; that rate sinks to $225 or $250 a night without them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY DONIGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); LODGING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AIR FARES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) VERMONT, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1270 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5621 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. (See above.) (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through March 22. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. A related show, ''The Poetics of Cloth: African Textiles/Recent Art,'' is at the Grey Art Gallery at New York University. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'GIORGIO MORANDI, 1890-1964,' through Dec. 14. Aspirants to the role of painter as poet are many. Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964) was the real thing. And this Morandi retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is something that anyone who loves painting and its very specific poetry will want to see. Morandi's still lifes are beautiful, but with a distinctive kind of beauty. And despite their small size and plain components -- bottles, jars, boxes, pots, seashells, vases -- they are emotionally audacious. This isn't because of what they say outright, but because of what they don't say; because they are so evidently shaped by self-restraint, and the passions that produced it. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'RHYTHMS OF MODERN LIFE: BRITISH PRINTS 1914-1939,' through Dec. 7. This interesting but confusingly organized exhibition considers the impact of modernity and machine-age idealism on 13 progressive British printmakers. Much of the show is given over to a group of artists active in the 1920s and '30s -- including Claude Flight, Cyril E. Power and Sybil Andrews -- who created colorful linocuts in a lively synthesis of Cubism, Futurism and Art Deco. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: JOHN MILTON'S 'PARADISE LOST,' through Jan. 4. To honor Milton's quadricentennial, eight of the pages of the only known surviving manuscript of Book 1 of ''Paradise Lost'' are on view, along with other Miltoniana, including a first edition and a miniature portrait believed to be of the poet. The handwriting is a scribe's; Milton, who was blind, composed the work orally. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through Feb. 15. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'KIRCHNER AND THE BERLIN STREET,' through Nov. 10. Focusing on seven paintings produced between 1913 and 1915 by the German Expressionist Ernst Ludwig Kirchner (1880-1938), this exhibition delivers a terrific visual wallop at the start and then continues to reverberate. Vigorously realized in jagged brush strokes of lurid pinks, greens and yellows and shades of charcoal black, the paintings depict stylishly dressed female streetwalkers and furtive, darkly cloaked men on the nocturnal, vertiginously tilted streets of an infernal city on the brink of a world-destroying war. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIPE, GLASS, BOTTLE OF RUM: THE ART OF APPROPRIATION,' through Nov. 10. More than 100 works, mostly from the museum's drawing collection, represent many different ways of importing nontraditional images, materials, forms and techniques into the realm of art. The exhibition ranges from early Cubist collages by Picasso, Braques and Gris that have newsprint and faux-wood grain paper in them to the suave, agit-prop montages of Barbara Kruger printed on matchbooks and a shopping bag. Other artists include John Baldessari, Hannah Hoch, Sigmar Polke, Sherrie Levine and Richard Prince. (See above.) (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WUNDERKAMMER: A CENTURY OF CURIOSITIES,' through Nov. 10. This exhibition of mostly prints and illustrated books gives too much space to artists in the Modern's pantheon or to predictable midmarket bench warmers. But it is inspired by a very un-Modern idea: the Renaissance wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities, a free-form collection of all things rare and marvelous, natural and man-made. Sensitively installed and rife with images of living, often grotesque creatures, it has the buzz of an aberrant ark and enough fresh material to sustain interest. The addition of a few objects from the museum's design collection is especially smart and effective; ignoring MoMA's departmental divisions is a good thing. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. (See above.) (Johnson)
 SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE: 'AARON DOUGLAS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN MODERNIST,' through Nov. 30. In 1920s New York a great flowering of black culture emerged that came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. No visual artist expressed that movement's euphoric sense of possibility with greater verve than the subject of this valuable exhibition, the painter, illustrator and muralist Aaron Douglas. His major works feature semitransparent silhouettes of black people in heroic poses overlaid by concentric, circular bands of light. Rendered in muted, luminous colors, they project visionary romanticism in a suave, Art Deco-like style. 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200, nypl.org/research/sc. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 LIZA LOU It's no coincidence that Liza Lou's first New York appearance since a 2002 solo in SoHo takes place in an uptown town house and a Park Avenue lobby. Ms. Lou, a sculptor who makes hand-beaded versions of everyday objects and environments, has shifted from immersive installations (like the ''Kitchen'' and ''Back Yard'' exhibited at the New Museum in the mid-'90s) to highly marketable sculptures and relief paintings. The transition isn't all bad. Ms. Lou's beadwork is still dazzling, and she is certainly experimenting with different genres. The showstopper is ''Security Fence'' (2005-7), a shimmering 10-foot-square enclosure of barbed wire and chain-link steel completely covered with silver beads. (A similar sculpture, ''Maximum Security Fence,'' is on view in the lobby of Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 54th Street, through Nov. 29.) L & M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com; through Nov. 15 (Rosenberg)
 'PICASSO'S MARIE-THEReSE' In 2006 Steve Wynn, of Las Vegas casino fame, was set to sell ''The Dream,'' a Picasso he owned, for the record price of $139 million. Then one day, while showing the collection to friends, he put his elbow through the painting. The sale was off; the picture was patched. Now it's the centerpiece of a gallery show with several other paintings of Marie-Therese Walter, Picasso's lover, with most of them on loan from museums. Close inspection reveals no visible trace of the elbow malfunction in Mr. Wynn's picture, though it does reaffirm Picasso's penchant for producing kitsch. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; through Nov. 29. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 DOUG AITKEN A circular white room, in which all-blue, geometric watercolors are displayed, resembles a set from ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com, through Nov. 8. (Johnson)
 OLAF BREUNING A found-object sculpture in this entertaining show consists of a scale balancing a bucketful of soft pink rubber breasts and a stack of old books. If this piece, titled ''The Big Challenge,'' strikes you as a funny and possibly profound meditation on the tension between the body and the mind, then Mr. Breuning's comical, often philosophically engaging exhibition of sculpture, large-scale photographs and small cartoon drawings is for you. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com, through Nov. 8. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 'ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM: A WORLD ELSEWHERE' A gallery chain based in London and owned by an auction house opens in New York in an overdone, chopped-up space with a shapeless, absurdly unnecessary exhibition of paintings and sculptures by those mythic market stalwarts, the leaders of the New York School. Under crowded (auction-house-like) conditions await exceptional works by Clyfford Still, Franz Kline, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, David Smith and more, often lent by museums. That nothing is for sale is meant to impress, but it doesn't do much to reduce the aura of commercial savvy, or the sense that a history recounted often and better elsewhere is being told yet again for all the wrong reasons. Haunch of Venison, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, near 49th Street, Manhattan, (212) 636-2034, haunchofvenison.com, through Nov. 12. (Smith)
 KIRK HAYES: 'LAUNCHED TO SINK' Mr. Hayes's works appear to be collages made of torn pieces of paper and cardboard, masking tape and bits of wood. Look closely, however, and you discover that, amazingly, most of what you see is actually carefully painted. While intimating bitter-sweet, obliquely autobiographical narratives, Mr. Hayes's works slyly comment on modern art's love of the raw and the naive. Sunday L.E.S., 237 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0700, sundaynyc.com; through Nov. 16. (Johnson)
 'OUT NOW!' The artist Anton Vidokle organized this exhibition to protest both the war in Iraq and the tepid response of American art institutions to that war. The work is tightly installed, text-intensive and hot with information. Among the contributors are the Irish journalist Patrick Cockburn; the peace activist Kathy Kelly; the writer Jalal Toufic; the artists Natasha Sadr Haghighian, Trevor Paglen and Martha Rosler; and the artist collective Friends of William Blake. E-Flux, 41 Essex Street, Lower East Side, (212) 619-3356, e-flux.com, through Nov 8. (Cotter)
 'THE POETICS OF CLOTH' Emphasizing the place of traditional textiles in works by contemporary African artists, this exhibition includes internationally renowned figures like the Nigerian-born Yinka Shonibare and the Ghanaian El Anatsui. One of the show's discoveries, Grace Ndiritu, uses printed fabrics in an evocative four-screen video installation -- allowing her bare limbs to peek out from behind curtains or posing as a mummified Olympia. A related show, ''The Essential Art of African Textiles: Design Without End,'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 6. (Rosenberg) 
 TADASKY In the 1960s Tadasky (Tadasuke Kuwayama) painted optically captivating compositions of concentric rings on square canvases. Excellent examples are included in a retrospective exhibition in D. Wigmore's ''Four Optic Visionaries,'' which also features works by Richard Anuszkiewicz, Sue Fuller and Mon Levinson, who were all included, along with Tadasky, in the Museum of Modern Art's famous 1965 exhibition ''The Responsive Eye.'' D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com, through Nov. 15. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'R. CRUMB'S UNDERGROUND,' through Dec. 7. The former underground comic artist R. Crumb has created some of the most memorable characters in cartoon history, including the irascible guru Mr. Natural; the suave, shamelessly randy Fritz the Cat; the angry Amazon Devil Girl; and R. Crumb himself, a figure comparable to the autobiographical alter-egos of Woody Allen and Philip Roth. He has been a fearlessly irreverent satirist and an intrepid explorer of his own twisted psyche. And he is excruciatingly funny. This enthralling show presents more than 100 works from all phases of his five-decade career. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 'IMPLANT' Organized by a curator at the Horticultural Society of New York, ''Implant'' takes inspiration from Michael Pollan's 2001 book, ''The Botany of Desire,'' which suggests that plants are using us for evolutionary purposes just as much as we are using them. Musicians entertain the foliage in Peter Coffin's greenhouse; a tree in a digital animation by Hiraki Sawa trots on human legs through a Daliesque landscape. Roughly 100 works by 45 contemporary artists add to our sense of a gradual shift in the artist-plant relationship, from sublime awe in the face of nature to something more reciprocal. UBS Art Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, between 51st and 52nd Streets; (212) 713-2885, hsny.org; closes on Friday. (Rosenberg)
 MEDARDO ROSSO Born in Turin, Italy, and trained in Milan, Medardo Rosso (1858-1928) crossed paths with Rodin in Paris, but they couldn't have been more dissimilar. Most of Rosso's sculptures were of bust-length heads, less portraits than distillations of feelings: joy, reverie, anxiety, exhaustion. And his subjects were often children, as is the case with three of the four pieces that make up this miraculous little show. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 * 'SCULPTING TIME' This exceptionally beautiful exhibition features four painters who are famous for repeating themselves over many years: Josef Albers, On Kawara, Giorgio Morandi and Roman Opalka. (A fifth, Andrew Grassi, who creates small, technically impressive Photorealist paintings, seems to have wandered in from another exhibition.) Sparely installed in a warren of eight intimate rooms, the show turns the gallery into a numinous aesthetic funhouse. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 RIRKRIT TIRAVANIJA: 'DEMONSTRATION DRAWINGS' This ambitious conceptual show by Rirkrit Tiravanija is made up of some 200 small, highly detailed graphite drawings of political protests and demonstrations from around the world. Most of the images were derived from newspaper photographs and have the on-the-spot look of reportage. All were done by artists in Thailand working on generous commissions from Mr. Tiravanija, with proceeds from the sale of the pictures going to the Land Foundation, a sustainable housing community in Thailand. The results in the show: drawing, the sine qua non of ''real'' art, meets the real world, and paradoxes unroll. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org; closes on Thursday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); OLYMPICS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); RELIGION (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); NIGERIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1271 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In Crisis, Prosecutors Put Aside Turf Wars

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER and BEN WHITE

 BODY:
On Sept. 25, as the world financial crisis escalated, two of New York's most powerful lawyers met for lunch in a restaurant near Wall Street with a name that recalled happier times: Bull Run.
 They were Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan, and Andrew M. Cuomo, the state attorney general. Both men's offices have histories of moving aggressively against financial fraud, and of vigorously defending their turf when other prosecutors try to compete for their cases.
 But over lunch, Mr. Garcia and Mr. Cuomo reached an unusual agreement: to investigate jointly the shadowy world of credit-default swaps, the $55 trillion market in unregulated financial instruments at the center of the meltdown. Soon, both men's top aides were hammering out details of the cooperation in an eighth floor conference room in Mr. Garcia's office in Lower Manhattan. 
 First came the bust; now comes the inevitable flood of investigations and possible prosecutions. State and federal prosecutors are looking at a range of companies, from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance companies that were effectively nationalized in September, to Lehman Brothers, the Wall Street bank that collapsed last month in the largest bankruptcy in United States history. 
 But the crisis is so widespread that there has been another phenomenon -- cooperation among prosecutors, especially in New York, where in the past they have not been shy about bumping elbows and sometimes had to resolve conflicts at the highest level of the Justice Department.
 ''The competitive racing of fellow offices of the Department of Justice in the same subject matter always made me pull my hair out,'' said Alan Vinegrad, a former United States attorney in Brooklyn. ''It's not a race,'' he added, calling the Garcia-Cuomo alliance ''a welcome development.''
 In the investigation of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, United States attorneys in three different jurisdictions -- Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey -- have issued nearly two dozen subpoenas. Recipients include the chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., and other top executives as well as Wall Street banks that provided research coverage on Lehman, like Merrill Lynch, and funds that invested in it. 
 Two people familiar with the Lehman investigations said the case had been divided among the three offices because there were too many avenues of inquiry for any one office to handle. These people spoke on the condition of anonymity because the inquiries were at an early stage and no conclusions of wrongdoing had been drawn. Press officers in all three prosecutors' offices declined to comment.
 The degree of cooperation, if any, in the wide array of other known inquiries spawned by the crisis is not clear:
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have said they received grand jury subpoenas in September from Mr. Garcia's office for documents related to accounting, disclosure and corporate governance. 
 The United States attorney in Brooklyn, Benton J. Campbell, announced criminal charges in June against two former hedge fund managers at Bear Stearns, and more charges against the two managers could follow, the office has said.
 The American International Group, the giant insurer bailed out by the federal government in September, has disclosed receiving requests for information from the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding valuations of some of its credit-default-swap portfolios. 
 The federal prosecutor in Washington State has announced an investigation into the collapse of Washington Mutual, which was forced into an emergency sale to JPMorgan Chase in late September.
 Mr. Cuomo's office has also demanded data from banks receiving federal money on what they plan to pay executives this year.
 The decision to cooperate can be advantageous to prosecutors. Under the arrangement in the swaps investigation between Mr. Garcia and Mr. Cuomo, for example, some of Mr. Cuomo's lawyers would be designated as ''special'' federal prosecutors to enable them to participate in secret grand jury proceedings. 
 ''Extraordinary problems require extraordinary solutions,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a phone interview this week. ''We can be helpful to each other; it's that simple.''
 Mr. Garcia's office has said it is looking into whether federal laws were violated, while Mr. Cuomo, with a broader mandate as the state's attorney general, can seek industry reforms, legislation, civil settlements and other remedies. But with so many investigations, some lawyers, including former prosecutors, cautioned against a rush to judgment, particularly given the tenor of the political season.
 Mary Jo White, who served as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1993-2002 and is now in private practice, said there were risks of intense public pressure ''to put the scalps on the wall -- 'How could something as bad as this happen if nobody did something wrong?' ''
 ''You have to distinguish between arguably bad risk-taking,'' she said, ''and someone who has actually violated the law.''
 The election Tuesday could also change the legal landscape, as new presidents traditionally appoint their own United States attorneys. But for now, the public cooperation between prosecutors, notably Mr. Garcia and Mr. Cuomo, has caught the attention of the legal community, largely because of the history of turf battles involving the United States attorney for the Southern District. 
 ''I don't know how that marriage came about -- and it's unusual,'' said Paul L. Shechtman, a lawyer who once had a role in a high-level squabble. ''One normally thinks of this as the 'Sovereign District of New York,' and it doesn't necessary play well with others.''
 In 1997, for example, Ms. White, then the United States attorney, allowed one of Mr. Shechtman's clients, who had been charged in a securities case by Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, to plead guilty to federal charges. That effectively stopped Mr. Morgenthau from pursuing his case. Mr. Morgenthau's office complained, but Ms. White responded that to prosecute the crimes ''under only state law diminishes their seriousness.''
 It was Mr. Morgenthau, when he was United States attorney under President John F. Kennedy, who created the office's securities fraud unit after his appointment in 1961. ''I just thought there was a lot of corruption out there,'' he said this week, ''and New York was the financial capital of the world, and we wanted people to feel safe investing in it.''
 In more recent years, the Southern District has competed to win control of prosecutions involving WorldCom, Adelphia Communications and Frank P. Quattrone, the former Credit Suisse banker. (That last tussle was with Mr. Cuomo's predecessor, Eliot Spitzer. Federal charges were eventually dropped after Mr. Quattrone's conviction was reversed.) 
 In the current Lehman investigation, the unusual division of tasks has allowed three different federal prosecutors offices to move forward, at least for now, said the people familiar with the inquiry. 
 Mr. Garcia's office is focusing on the valuations Lehman put on its large commercial real estate holdings. One subpoena has gone to Mark A. Walsh, who headed Lehman's commercial real estate operations. A lawyer for Mr. Walsh declined to comment. 
 In Newark, the office of Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, is looking at statements made to investors who took part in a $6 billion capital raise announced by Lehman on June 9 as the bank announced a $2.8 billion second-quarter loss. Mr. Christie has subpoenaed the New Jersey Division of Investment, which took part in the offering. 
 And the United States attorney in Brooklyn, Mr. Campbell, is examining statements made to investors and analysts in a Sept. 10 conference call discussing Lehman's financial position and its plans for survival. The call came just five days before Lehman's bankruptcy filing. Ian T. Lowitt, Lehman's former chief financial officer, who took part in the call, has also received a subpoena.
 Outside experts said prosecutors would be gathering internal documents to determine whether public statements about the bank's health and the value of its assets differed from internal assessments, and whether deliberate efforts were made to obscure the truth. 
 In public comments, Mr. Fuld, Lehman's chief, has said all of his statements to investors were based on information he had available at the time, that he never intended to mislead anyone and that he always believed in the company's ability to succeed. 
 A spokesman for Lehman executives declined to comment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: United States Attorney Michael Garcia, left, and New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, are jointly investigating credit-default swaps. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT, BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS
RIGHT, CHIP EAST/REUTERS)(B1)
 Benton J. Campbell, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, is working with United States attorneys in Manhattan and New Jersey in investigating the fall of Lehman Brothers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); GRAND JURY (71%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); RICHARD S FULD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1272 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2185 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 Opera
 'ARJUNA'S DILEMMA' (Thursday) Based on the Bhagavad-Gita, a Sanskrit epic, Douglas J. Cuomo's chamber opera ''Arjuna's Dilemma'' features a score combining classical Indian singing and percussion with jazz, minimalism and a four-part women's chorus. The story follows the moral and spiritual conflict of the warrior prince Arjuna, and the spiritual guidance offered by the Hindu god Krishna. Humayun Khan improvises in Sanskrit as Krishna, and the American tenor Tony Boutte also sings in Sanskrit for the role of Arjuna. The opera, directed by Robin Guarino with choreography by John Kelly, is performed by an ensemble of 10 musicians, including solo saxophone and tabla. At 7:30 p.m., BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $40. 
 (Vivien Schweitzer) 
 'DOCTOR ATOMIC' (Saturday and Wednesday) The film director Penny Woolcock, in her Met debut, has staged a new production of John Adams's ''Doctor Atomic.'' The work had its premiere in 2005 at the San Francisco Opera in a production by the director Peter Sellars, who also wrote the libretto, compiled from documents, interviews, memoirs and poetry. Mr. Adams's opera about J. Robert Oppenheimer, the brilliant, cultured and arrogant physicist who presided over the history-altering Manhattan Project, increasingly seems like this inventive American composer's most complex work, especially in the insightful performance that the conductor Alan Gilbert, in his overdue company debut, draws from the Met orchestra and chorus. The production, which imaginatively uses video projections and electronic sound resources, combines metaphoric imagery with poignantly personal scenes among the characters. The baritone Gerald Finley, who created the role of Oppenheimer, brings his portrayal, now even richer and more visceral, to the Met. The mezzo-soprano Sasha Cooke as Oppenheimer's wife, Kitty; the bass-baritone Richard Paul Fink as Edward Teller; and the bass-baritone Eric Owens as the blustery project commander Gen. Leslie Groves are all excellent. Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $295. 
 (Anthony Tommasini)
 'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Saturday and Tuesday) Last season the excellent American soprano Patricia Racette won some of her best reviews in recent years for her portrayal of the fragile and tormented Cio-Cio San in the Met's revival of Anthony Minghella's sumptuously colorful and cinematic production of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly.'' Ms. Racette returns to the role on Friday night, when the Met again mounts that production, with the tenor Roberto Aronica as Pinkerton and Patrick Summers conducting. Saturday at 1 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $295. (Tommasini)
 NEW YORK CITY OPERA (Sunday) While its Lincoln Center home, the New York State Theater, undergoes major renovation, the New York City Opera has become a nomadic company this season. In placed of staged performances of operas, it is presenting lectures, films and, most notably, an adventurous series of concerts in all five boroughs of New York. Titled Looking Forward, the series celebrates the focus on 20th-century opera that the company's incoming general director, Gerard Mortier, will offer when he arrives next season. The Sunday program is essentially a repeat of the invigorating concert that opened the series on Staten Island, with works by Stravinsky, Messiaen, Debussy, Lukas Foss, Steve Reich and others. George Manahan conducts a roster of vocal soloists and the City Opera orchestra and chorus. At 4 p.m., Whitman Theater at the Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $25. (Tommasini)
 'LA TRAVIATA' (Friday, Monday and Thursday) For ''Traviata'' fans turned off by the flamboyance of Franco Zeffirelli's 1998 staging, the German soprano Anja Harteros, singing Violetta for the first time at the house, provides reason to venture back. She sings with a fluid and elegantly dark-hued voice and conveys the same vulnerability as she did last season in a noteworthy portrayal of the Countess in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro.'' Massimo Giordano, a bright-voiced Italian tenor, sings Alfredo, and Andrzej Dobber is a fine Germont. Paolo Carignani makes a worthy Met debut conducting. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $295 on Friday; $15 to $275 on Monday and Thursday. (Schweitzer) 
 Classical Music
 MILTON BABBITT: COMPLETE STRING QUARTETS (Wednesday) Milton Babbitt composed six string quartets between 1948 and 1993, and the energetic young Zukofsky String Quartet has made a specialty of them, having learned them with coaching and advice from Mr. Babbitt. On Wednesday the ensemble plays all six in an installment of the Miller Theater's important Composer Portraits series. The program also includes a discussion between Mr. Babbitt and the conductor James Levine, who has long been a fan of Mr. Babbitt's work. At 8 p.m., Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com; $25. 
 (Allan Kozinn)
 BARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday) New music dominates the week at this floating concert hall, moored at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge, on the Brooklyn side of the East River. At a Here and Now series concert on Friday, an interestingly constituted quartet (oboe, clarinet, cello and piano) puts the focus on composers from Southern California. Included are world premieres by Frank Campo, Daniel Kessner and Wolfgang Gernot and works by Jonathon Grasse, Liviu Marinescu, Rod Butler and William Tourant. A second Here and Now program on Saturday by the Neolit Ensemble moves back east for works by Katherine Hoover, Victoria Bond, Jennifer Higdon, Paul Schoenfield and John Harbison. Sunday's program begins with an experiment: Matthew Quayle's ''Gridley Paige Road'' (2007) will be performed by both the Baltimore Chamber Orchestra and the Fauxharmonic Orchestra, a Wii-controlled digital instrument. Then it's back to the Baltimore group for Jonathan Leshnoff's Trombone Concerto and works by Mozart, Bruckner and Beethoven. And on Wednesday Gavriel Lipkind, a cellist, plays unaccompanied works by Paul Ben-Haim, Bach and Ligeti. Friday, Saturday and Wednesday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 4 p.m.; Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; on Wednesday, $35; $20 for students; on Friday and Saturday, $35; $15 for students; on Sunday, $50; $25 for students. On Wednesday and Friday, $30 for 65+. (Kozinn) 
 DIABOLUS IN MUSICA (Sunday) This French vocal octet, led by Antoine Guerber, makes its American debut in the Music Before 1800 series. Its program is devoted to one of the earliest landmarks of the classical repertory, the Notre Dame Mass by the 14th-century composer Guillaume de Machaut. This polyphonic Mass is the first known work of its kind in which all the sections of the Ordinary were written by a single composer. (Before Machaut, the standard practice appears to have been for cathedral musicians to assemble Masses from settings of the individual movements, written by different composers at different times.) At 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org; $15 to $40. (Kozinn) 
 KELLER QUARTET (Friday) This ensemble was founded in 1987 at the Liszt Conservatory of Music in Budapest, where its teachers included Gyorgy Kurtag. They will perform his ''Officium breve in memoriam Andreae Szervanszky'' and ''Six moments musicaux,'' as well as Schubert's String Quartet in G (D. 887), Mozart's Adagio and Fugue in C Minor (K. 546) and Mozart's arrangement of five Bach Fugues. At 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $48. (Schweitzer)
 DAVID LANG (Wednesday) Mr. Lang, a founder of Bang on a Can, won the Pulitzer Prize for music this year for his freewheeling, eclectic and easily accessible compositions. In this program of his works, the cellist Maya Beiser performs ''World to Come,'' which Mr. Lang wrote for her, and the new-music ensemble Real Quiet (Andrew Russo, pianist; David Cossin, percussionist; and Felix Fan, cellist) perform ''Songs for Lou Reed Finally,'' with the singer Theo Bleckmann, and ''Pierced,'' with members of the Flux Quartet. At 7:30 p.m., Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 505-3474, lprnyc.com; $15. (Kozinn)
 MESSIAEN AT 100 (Thursday) The musical celebrations for the composer Elliott Carter, still thriving as his 100th birthday approaches in December, are overshadowing the celebrations for the centennial of the 20th-century master Olivier Messiaen. Still, Messiaen is getting deserved attention too, including a program at Symphony Space with the New Millennium Ensemble and the brilliant pianists Ursula Oppens and Jerome Lowenthal playing three works: ''Le merle noir,'' an elaborate piece based on the song of blackbirds; ''Visions de l'Amen'' for two pianos; and the astounding ''Quartet for the End of Time.'' At 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $35 on the day of the concert; $30 in advance; $25 for members. (Tommasini)
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday, Wednesday and Thursday) David Robertson, the energetic music director of the St. Louis Symphony, conducts the Philharmonic in a concert (part of the Here and Now series) featuring Copland's ''Appalachian Spring''; Elliott Carter's ''Of Rewaking'' (a 2002 setting of poems by the American poet William Carlos Williams, sung here by the mezzo soprano Michelle de Young); Bernstein's Symphony No. 1, ''Jeremiah''; and Christopher Rouse's ''Rapture.'' On Wednesday and Thursday Christoph Eschenbach conducts Bruckner's Symphony No. 9 and the pianist Lang Lang in Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $30 to $104 on Friday; $35 to $109 on Saturday; sold out on Wednesday and Thursday. (Schweitzer)
 PEOPLE'S SYMPHONY CONCERT (Saturday) If you're feeling the economic pinch, take advantage of ultra-cheap, high-quality events like the People's Symphony Concerts, founded in 1900. On Saturday the excellent Orion Quartet and the clarinetist Richard Stoltzman perform Brahms's magnificent Clarinet Quintet. The program will also include Hugo Wolf's ''Italian Serenade,'' Gershwin/Silverman selections for clarinet and quartet, and Beethoven's String Quartet No. 10 in E flat (Op. 74), ''Harp.'' At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, 16th Street and Irving Place, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $10 and $12. (Schweitzer)
 SACRED MUSIC IN A SACRED SPACE (Wednesday) Kent Tritle has become ubiquitous in New York choral concerts, now that he directs Musica Sacra and the Oratorio Society of New York. But much of his best work is with the magnificent choir at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, where he established the Sacred Music in a Sacred Space series in 1989. The current installment is devoted to Rossini's Petite Messe Solennelle, offered here in the fully orchestrated version Rossini prepared in 1867 rather than in the more familiar original scoring, in which the choir is accompanied by two pianos and harmonium. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street, (212) 288-2520, smssconcerts.org; $35 to $45; $25 for students and 65+. (Kozinn)
 DAWN UPSHAW (Sunday) This notable soprano joins forces with the talented Ensemble ACJW, the bass-baritone Evan Hughes, the hyper-accordionist Michael Ward-Bergeman and the conductor and pianist Stephen Prutsman for a lively program. It includes songs by Dowland; the evocative ''Lua Descolorida'' by Osvaldo Golijov (whose music Ms. Upshaw has championed); the world premiere of Ward-Bergeman's ''Treny''; and David Bruce's ''Piosenki.'' At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $44 to $52. (Schweitzer)
 WUORINEN AT 70 (Sunday and Monday) In recent years James Levine has become a high-profile champion of the composer Charles Wuorinen. He conducts this complex, modernist composer's work with technical command, palpable involvement and textural lucidity. On Sunday and Monday evenings, for a Works & Process program at the Guggenheim Museum, Mr. Levine will conduct a roster of musicians including members of the Brentano String Quartet and the pianist Sarah Rothenberg in ''Ashberyana,'' Mr. Wuorinen's setting of John Ashbery's poetry. Ms. Rothenberg will also lead a discussion with the composer. At 7:30 p.m., Peter B. Lewis Theater, Sackler Center for Arts Education, Guggenheim Music, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org; $30; $25 for members; $10 for students. (Tommasini) 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A classical music entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the opera ''Arjuna's Dilemma,'' at the Harvey Theater of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, misstated the date of a performance next week. It is Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., not Thursday. (The opera is also being performed Friday and next Saturday.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); POETRY (77%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1273 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2785 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
FILM SERIES
 'EL FUTURO MAS ACA: THE FUTURE SOUTH OF THE BORDER' (Friday through Sunday) This series offers a peek into the universe of Mexican science-fiction, courtesy of Cinema Tropical and the Mexican Cultural Institute of New York. Titles to be screened include Alfredo B. Crevenna's 1965 ''Planet of the Female Invaders,'' in which a Mexican boxer and his entourage are captured by aliens and spirited off to the matriarchal planet Sibila (Friday and Saturday); Crevenna's 1966 ''El Santo vs. the Martian Invasion,'' featuring the venerable wrestler-action star Santo -- the Man in the Silver Mask -- battling three-eyed space invaders (Friday and Sunday); and Rafael Portillo's 1957 ''Aztec Mummy vs. the Human Robot,'' the third and final installment of the trilogy starring Popoca, a mummified Aztec warrior who comes back to life to protect the treasure buried in a royal tomb. Itala Schmelz, one of the programmers of the series, will moderate a discussion on Saturday at 6 p.m. 92Y Tribeca, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org/film; $12. (Dave Kehr) 
 MIAAC 2008 (Wednesday and Thursday) The eighth annual Mahindra Indo-American Arts Council film festival opens on Wednesday at Frederick P. Rose Hall with a gala premiere for ''Heaven on Earth,'' a new feature by Deepa Mehta (''Water'') about a young bride who finds refuge from her harsh family life by indulging in fantasy. The festival, devoted to films of the Indian diaspora, continues through Nov. 9 with 31 other film premieres, panel discussions, an art exhibition and a concert at several locations around the city, including the Museum of Art and Design and the TriBeCa Cinemas. (212) 594-3685, iaac.us/MIAAC2008; $15 for most films. (Kehr)
 'UNIDENTIFIED FILMIC OBJECTS: THE FILMS OF JEAN-DANIEL POLLET' (Friday through Wednesday) The French filmmaker Jean-Daniel Pollet is known in America, if he is known at all, only for his contribution to the anthology film ''Six in Paris,'' but there is much more to his eccentric, unclassifiable body of work. This series includes ''Mediterranee'' (1963), a lyrical sort-of-documentary with a narration by Philippe Sollers and a score by Antoine Duhamel; ''L'Ordre,'' a strange and powerful 1973 study of an abandoned leper colony; ''L'Amour C'est Gai, L'Amour C'est Triste,'' a broad 1971 comedy about a sexually anxious tailor; and Mr. Pollet's most recent feature, ''Ceux d'en Face'' (2000), a two-handed drama starring Michael Lonsdale and Valentine Vidal. A generous selection of Mr. Pollet's short films rounds out the programs in the series, which will be shown in rotation through Wednesday. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org, $8. (Kehr) 
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'APPALOOSA' (R, 1:47) Ed Harris, who directed, stars with Viggo Mortensen, Renee Zellweger and Jeremy Irons in this sly, relaxed western, which is less concerned with gunfighting and law and order than with jealousy, friendship and the perils of frontier romance. It's a somber shoot-em-up with the mischievous soul of a sex comedy. (A. O. Scott)
 'AZUR & ASMAR' (PG, 1:39) Unfolding in a flat, luminous storybook style, this handsome animated fable from France tells of two boys on a quest to release an enchanted fairy and re-establish their childhood friendship. (Nathan Lee) 
 'BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA' (PG, 1:25) As multimillion-dollar frivolities about the pets of the ruling class go, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is reasonably diverting. As one released in the middle of an economic meltdown, its mere existence feels utterly insane. (Lee)
 'BODY OF LIES' (R, 2:06) Ridley Scott's new movie raises a potentially disturbing question. If terrorism has become boring, does that mean that the terrorists have won? Or, conversely, is the grinding tedium of this film good news for our side, evidence of the awesome might of Western popular culture, which can turn even the most bloodthirsty real-world villains into fodder for contrived and lifeless action thrillers? (Scott)
 'BURN AFTER READING' (R, 1:36) A predictably self-amused comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen with a tricky plot, visual style, er, to burn, but so little heart as to warrant a Jarvik 8. With George Clooney, Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHANGELING' (R, 2:01) Clint Eastwood directs Angelina Jolie in this long, shapeless tale of a mother in distress, based on the true story of Christine Collins, whose young son disappeared in Los Angeles in 1928. There are some effective scenes, but the labored period details, the flagging pace and Ms. Jolie's exhausting performance get in the way of any real intensity or insight. (Scott) 
 'CHRISTMAS ON MARS' (No rating, 1:25) The Oklahoma band the Flaming Lips are the stars of this dreamy movie, which loosely concerns a remote, imperiled Red Planet outpost on Christmas Eve. The lead singer, Wayne Coyne, who directed, plays a horned alien who arrives in a glowing orb and dons a Santa suit. But forget plot; it's all about the black-and-white images, bursts of psychedelia and homemade-looking but sometimes lyrical effects. And the great soundtrack. (Andy Webster)
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives. (Dargis)
 'THE DUCHESS' (PG-13, 1:45) An overstuffed, underbaked portrait of the cosseted, tightly corseted late-18th-century life of Georgiana Spencer, the Duchess of Devonshire. Saul Dibbs directs, Keira Knightley stars, and Ralph Fiennes acts. (Dargis)
 'EAGLE EYE' (PG-13, 1:58) Shia LaBoeuf and Michelle Monaghan on the run from something. From what? A ticked-off government computer, apparently. Did I spoil it? Sorry. I mean, you're welcome. (Scott)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'THE EXPRESS' (PG, 2:09) Like ''Glory Road,'' ''The Great Debate'' and numerous similar movies, ''The Express'' packages a real-life story of athletic triumph and social progress into an accessible, rousing melodrama that is no less potent for being almost entirely predictable. (Scott)
 'FEAR(S) OF THE DARK' (No rating, 1:20, in French) Shot in luminous whites, pulsing blacks and gorgeous grays, this animated anthology showcases six of today's most talented graphic artists. Exploring sexual insecurity, rural superstition and sociopolitical anxieties, the stories unfold with an inventiveness that's seldom scary but never less than mesmerizing. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'FIREPROOF' (PG, 2:02) In this film aimed at the Christian market, Kirk Cameron plays a firefighter who tries to save his marriage by embarking on a faith-based regimen called the Love Dare, but his wife (Erin Bethea) seems unresponsive. It's a much better attempt to merge storytelling with faith than is usual for the genre, and the amateur cast is surprisingly good. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'THE FIRST BASKET' (No rating, 1:26) The little-known history of Jewish participation in, and influence on, the game of basketball is remembered in this functional, if narrowly interesting, history lesson. (Lee)
 'FLASH OF GENIUS' (PG-13, 2:00) In this doggedly workmanlike and passionless variation on the lone crusader doing battle with the big, bad establishment, Greg Kinnear plays the real-life inventor of the intermittent windshield wiper who sued Ford for stealing his patent. (Stephen Holden)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FRONTRUNNERS' (No rating, 1:23) Without forcing comparisons, this mild-mannered documentary finds parallels between the national presidential elections and a recent competition for the presidency of the student union at Stuyvesant High School in New York City. (Holden)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Holden)
 'HAPPY-GO-LUCKY' (R, 1:58) Happiness is a complicated, difficult matter, and for the bopping bloom at the center of Mike Leigh's generous, expansive new film -- a gurgling stream of giggles, laughs and words played by a glorious Sally Hawkins -- it's also a question of faith. (Dargis)
 'HIGH SCHOOL MUSICAL 3: SENIOR YEAR' (G, 1:40) The third chapter of this Disney musical franchise moves smoothly from the Disney Channel to the big screen. If the story is negligible, as long as the film is singing and dancing, it is irresistibly peppy froth set in wholesome teenage never-never land. (Holden)
 'I SERVED THE KING OF ENGLAND' (R, 1:58, in Czech) There is hardly a moment in this picaresque slapstick epic, directed by Jiri Menzel (''Closely Watched Trains'') and set mainly in 1930s and '40s Czechoslovakia that you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events. (Holden)
 'I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG' (PG-13, 1:55, in French) The French novelist Philippe Claudel, making his debut as a director, shows sobriety and restraint in this story of a woman making her way back into normal life after serving a prison sentence for the murder of her son. Kristin Scott Thomas gives a remarkable lead performance, and Elsa Zylberstein as her sister is nearly as good. A climactic plot twist cheapens and diminishes the film somewhat, but it is still, for the most part, a powerful and subtle melodrama. (Scott)
 'LAKEVIEW TERRACE' (PG-13, 1:46) In this silly exercise in mock provocation, Samuel L. Jackson plays a Los Angeles police officer who terrorizes his new neighbors, a perfectly nice interracial couple played by Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington. (Scott)
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MAX PAYNE' (PG-13, 1:40) In this video-game-based action-revenge spectacle, Mark Wahlberg battles winged creatures, drug addicts and a ruthless pharmaceutical company. Or something. (Scott)
 'NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST' (PG-13, 1:30) Teenagers falling in love on the tame night streets of Manhattan. As thin as an iPod Nano and as sweetly self-conscious as a Facebook page, but not without charm. (Scott)
 'NIGHTS IN RODANTHE' (PG-13, 1:37) Richard Gere and Diane Lane fumble like teenagers and mouth some pitiful, platitudinous, risible dialogue in a soggy romance directed by George C. Wolfe and based on a Nicholas Sparks book. (Dargis)
 'PASSENGERS' (PG-13, 1:40) Heaven knows why reputable actors like Anne Hathaway, Patrick Wilson and Dianne Wiest attached themselves to ''Passengers,'' a supernatural thriller so mechanically inept and lacking in suspense that it doesn't pass muster as lowbrow Halloween-ready entertainment. (Holden)
 'PRIDE AND GLORY' (R, 2:05) An extended family of Irish cops fighting, shouting and weeping in New York. Nothing you haven't seen before, but not badly directed by Gavin O'Connor, and featuring a fine, quiet performance by Noah Emmerich, who steals the picture from the designated blusterers Colin Farrell and Edward Norton. (Scott)
 'QUARANTINE' (R, 1:26) The recent resurgence of the pseudo-documentary horror movie continues with this tale of a television news team trapped in an urban apartment building whose residents are harboring a mysterious infection. Cleverly working his claustrophobic setting (and the adapted script from the Spanish movie ''[REC]''), the director, John Erick Dowdle, keeps the action tight and the injuries nasty. (Catsoulis)
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'RELIGULOUS' (R, 1:41) The comedian and outspoken religious nonbeliever Bill Maher travels the world interviewing Christians, Jews and Muslims about their beliefs, which he views as dangerous nonsense. (Holden)
 'ROCKNROLLA' (R, 1:57) In his latest, the director Guy Ritchie pumps up the volume, tilts the camera, flexes the muscle, struts the stuff for some bang bang, blah blah. (Dargis)
 'SAW V' (R, 1:39) It would be nice to be able to say that the latest installment of the ''Saw'' franchise is a revolting, nerve-racking trip into the cesspool of the human imagination, since that seems to be the general point of this undying franchise. This time around, however, the result is just plain boring, and even a little tame -- albeit by the standards of a genre that helped bring the phrase ''torture porn'' into existence. (Lee)
 'A SECRET' (No rating, 1:45, in French) Claude Miller's adaptation of Philippe Grimbert's autobiographical novel is a subtle and moving exploration of intimacy and desire in a French Jewish family before and after World War II. (Scott)
 'THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES' (PG-13, 1:50) A warm bath of folksiness, racial tolerance, life lessons and honey in South Carolina, around 1964, from Sue Monk Kidd's best seller. (Scott) 
 'SEX DRIVE' (R, 1:48) Sean Anders's aggressively puerile, fitfully amusing and sluggish teenage sex comedy reserves all its creativity for ways to revolt and ostensibly delight its target audience. (Dargis)
 'STRANDED: I'VE COME FROM A PLANE THAT CRASHED ON THE MOUNTAINS' (No rating, 2:06, in Spanish) The 16 survivors of the famous 1972 plane crash in the Andes that decimated a Uruguayan rugby team and forced them to cannibalize the corpses of the casualties to stay alive, tell their story in Gonzalo Arijon's documentary. It is an inspiring story of teamwork and solidarity. (Holden)
 'SYNECDOCHE, NEW YORK' (R, 2:04) To say that Charlie Kaufman's feature debut is one of the best films of the year or even the one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. (In other words: Go!) (Dargis)
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller (same name) is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden)
 'TROUBLE THE WATER' (No rating, 1:33) While making this superb documentary about that natural and unnatural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin hit the jackpot when they meet two New Orleans survivors, Kimberly and Scott Roberts, who rode out the storm with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'TYLER PERRY'S THE FAMILY THAT PREYS' (PG-13, 1:51) The suds that cascade through Tyler Perry melodrama more than equal the cubic footage from nighttime soaps like ''Dallas,'' ''Dynasty'' and their offspring. (Holden)
 'THE UNIVERSE OF KEITH HARING' (No rating, 1:30) The life and times of the artist Keith Haring are remembered in this loving, if routine, documentary. (Lee)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'W.' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither a pure (nor impure) sendup of the president nor a wholesale takedown, Oliver Stone's queasily entertaining biopic reminds us what a long, strange trip it's been to the Bush White House. Josh Brolin stars as the frat boy who would be king. (Dargis)
 'WHAT JUST HAPPENED' (R, 1:50) Who cares? (Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (89%); FESTIVALS (86%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); FAMILY (72%); EXHIBITIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (52%) EARTH (79%); MARS (57%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1274 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Plan May Aid Many And Irk Others

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
As the Treasury Department prepares a $40 billion program to help delinquent homeowners avoid foreclosure, it confronts a difficult challenge: not making the plan too tempting to people like Todd Lawrence. 
 An airline pilot who lives outside Norwich, Conn., Mr. Lawrence has a traditional 30-year mortgage that he has no trouble paying every month. But, thanks to the plunging real estate market, he owes more on his house than it is worth, like millions of other people.
 If the banks, which frequently lent irresponsibly, and many homeowners, who often borrowed irresponsibly, are getting government assistance, Mr. Lawrence says he believes sober souls like himself are also due a break. 
 ''Why am I being punished for having bought a house I could afford?'' he asked. ''I am beginning to think I would have rocks in my head if I keep paying my mortgage.'' 
 The plan, still under development by Treasury, is part of the economic rescue package passed by Congress earlier this month. It is aimed at aiding up to three million beleaguered homeowners by reducing their monthly payments. 
 Washington and Wall Street are frantically seeking to stabilize markets by curtailing the onslaught of foreclosures. There are now at least four major plans to aid homeowners. But experts say it is difficult to design these programs in ways that reduce the indebtedness of the distressed without giving everyone else a reason to mail the keys back to their lenders. 
 ''If the lunch truly is free, the demand for free lunches will be large,'' said Paul McCulley, a managing director with the investment firm Pimco. 
 More than 10 million homeowners are underwater like Mr. Lawrence, and their ranks are swelling. In theory, Mr. McCulley points out, underwater homeowners benefit when a neighbor is bailed out instead of surrendering his house to foreclosure. With a foreclosure, the owner becomes the bank, which will care for the house minimally. When the bank finally manages to unload the house months later, the fire-sale price will establish a new floor for the remaining neighbors.
 But the benefits of a bailout for his neighbors seem ephemeral to the 45-year-old Mr. Lawrence, especially because he figures the cost of helping them will come, one way or another, out of his pocket as a taxpayer. ''I'm basically financing my own financial destruction,'' he said. 
 Government officials say that homeowner bailouts are not a gift. For one thing, they assert, most mortgages will simply be revamped so the monthly payments become affordable for the next few years. Reductions in loan balances, which are drawing the most attention, will generally be a last resort. 
 ''This is not about trying to create fairness,'' said Michael H. Krimminger, special adviser for policy at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is working with Treasury on the latest plan. ''The goal is to keep people in their houses.''
 Still, he acknowledged, ''a lot of people are angry because they feel some people are getting something they don't deserve.''
 Going into default, whether as a gambit to get a loan modification or to get rid of a burdensome house payment, carries risks. Under some conditions, lenders have the right to sue a borrower for assets beyond the house itself. Then there is the inevitable blot on the borrower's credit record. 
 Other factors are intangible: Many owners like their houses and neighborhoods and do not want to leave them. And many people, even as their retirement funds vaporize, consider paying their debts a moral obligation.
 Against those considerations must be measured the burden of paying a $500,000 mortgage on a property now worth $350,000.
 ''From a purely economic standpoint, there's not a whole lot to be gained from staying,'' said Rich Toscano, a San Diego financial adviser whose popular blog, Piggington.com, predicted the collapse.
 Homeowners are not the only ones weighing their options. Real estate investors are also wondering if they will be left behind. 
 ''We told our lenders that if you're writing down 90 percent of your portfolio, we want to be in on it,'' said Jason Luker, a principal at Cardinal Group Investments in San Diego. Cardinal owns homes that it rents out.
 ''If all of our neighbors are getting bailed out despite their own bad decisions, arrogance or ignorance, and we're asked to keep playing by the rules for the sake of the greater good, I don't want to participate,'' Mr. Luker said.
 Peter Schiff, the president of Euro Pacific Capital in Darien, Conn., who prophesied doom before it became fashionable, says he thinks just about everyone who is underwater and has few other assets should stop paying. 
 ''If the government says, 'Prove that you can't afford your house and we'll redo your mortgage,' then people are going to try to qualify,'' Mr. Schiff said.
 In that situation, those who will benefit the most are the ones who, unlike Mr. Lawrence, spent far beyond their means -- who refinanced their houses and used the cash to buy toys and lavish vacations, or sometimes just to pay the bills. 
 ''You put something down, you have something to lose,'' Mr. Schiff said. ''You put nothing down, you've got nothing to lose.''
 Though hard numbers are scarce, estimates are that foreclosures will surpass one million this year. Losses on home loans are piling up faster than banks can deal with them. First Federal Bank of California said this week that as of June 30 it owned 380 foreclosed houses. It managed to sell 329 of them during the third quarter but acquired another 450. 
 This sense of rapidly losing ground underlies the urgency behind the Treasury's new plan, which is being developed even as various homeowner bailouts that were announced earlier are just getting under way.
 A White House spokeswoman, Dana M. Perino, said on Thursday that the plan was not ''imminent'' and that several different proposals were being considered.
 ''If we find one that we think strikes the right notes and could meet all of those standards that we want to protect taxpayers, make sure that it's also fair and that it would actually have an impact, then we would move forward and we would announce it,'' Ms. Perino said.
 The Federal Housing Administration began Hope for Homeowners on Oct. 1, aimed at making as many as 400,000 mortgages affordable. Under the program, lenders will refinance loans to 90 percent of a house's current value, automatically giving the owner 10 percent equity. 
 The loans will be insured by the government, which will take a share of any gain when the house is sold. If a sale occurs in the first year, the government takes it all. The second year, it takes 90 percent; and so on down a sliding scale. After five years, it takes half the gain.
 To guard against fraud, an F.H.A. spokesman said, borrowers will have to certify they did not ''intentionally'' default.
 The Hope Now Alliance, an initiative by a range of lenders, trade groups and counseling agencies, says it has aided 2.3 million borrowers in the last year. Nearly half of Hope Now's most recent workouts involved modifications of the original loan, including reducing the principal or the interest rate. 
 Countrywide Financial says it will help 400,000 of its customers through the Nationwide Homeownership Retention Program, slated to begin in December. Countrywide, an aggressive lender during the boom, is now a division of Bank of America.
 The $8.4 billion program arose out of a legal settlement, but a Countrywide spokesman, Rick Simon, said the lender now realized that it was cheaper to keep owners in their homes than to let them go into foreclosure. 
 But not every owner. The program, aimed at those spending more than a third of their household income on a mortgage, property taxes and insurance, is limited to borrowers with subprime and pay-option adjustable-rate mortgages -- the worst of the many exotic loan types that proliferated during the boom.
 ''Confusion or misrepresentation went into the marketing of these loans,'' Mr. Simon said. By contrast, a buyer with a standard 30-year mortgage ''probably understood the terms.''
 Countrywide says it will write down pay-option mortgages to as low as 95 percent of the current value of the home. The borrowers must either be in default or ''reasonably likely'' to default. 
 ''I guess they are forcing me to deliberately stop paying to look worse than I am,'' said one borrower with a Countrywide pay-option loan. ''Crazy, don't you think?''
 The borrower, who lives in suburban Los Angeles, took nearly $200,000 in cash out of his house and then paid less than the monthly interest due on his new loan.
 He now owes about $350,000 on a house that is worth only $150,000. He asked not to be identified for fear he would not get a modification, which could reduce his mortgage to $142,500.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1275 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: How Clever If Porsche Pulls It Off

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
On Wall Street, a corner is not just an intersection of two streets. It is also a way to extract huge profits from speculators who had the temerity to sell a stock short. 
 Now the question is whether Porsche has pulled off a brilliant new-fashioned corner in Volkswagen stock, using derivatives in clever ways that no one had thought of before, or whether it was too clever for its own good.
 In a corner, a buyer or group of buyers buys a lot of stock. As the price goes up, short-sellers appear. They borrow stock -- perhaps from the very same group -- and sell it, hoping to make a profit when the price declines. 
 Then comes the squeeze. The group, which now owns more shares than exist, demands the return of the borrowed stock. The only way the short-sellers can comply with that request is to purchase shares, and the only one who has shares to sell is the corner group. The group can set its own price, and make a fortune. 
 One reason you don't see many corners these days is that they are illegal in most countries. But another is that almost everybody involved tends to lose in the end, with the exception of lucky investors who happened to own the stock before the fun started and can sell into the big run-up in prices.
 Those who execute corners usually make lots of money from the short-sellers. But they end up owning a company for which they paid too much. The stock is delisted from the stock exchange, since there no longer are enough public shareholders, so there is no ready market for the stock. If the group that executed the corner used borrowed money, they may be in big trouble.
 In the 1920s, the most famous corner in the United States was in stock in Piggly Wiggly, a grocery store chain. The corner was successful, but the man who executed it eventually went broke. 
 But there have been successful corners. Cornelius Vanderbilt once pulled one off, with members of the New York City Council as the victims. They had tried to profit by shorting a railroad company Vanderbilt controlled, and then revoking the company's principal asset, a license to operate a street railway. Vanderbilt bought shares, and kept the price from falling. Owning more shares than there were outstanding, he offered to let the council members cover their short positions with only small losses, if they reinstated the license. They did.
 The big loser in that corner was a legendary speculator, Daniel Drew, who had proposed the idea to the council members. He was forced to purchase shares at very high prices. 
 It is Drew who is credited with the saying ''He who sells what isn't his'n, must buy it back or go to pris'n.'' 
 For the cornerer, there is also the risk that rules will change when powerful people get in trouble. That was one of the things that broke the Hunt brothers' attempted corner in silver back in 1980. The authorities made it almost impossible to bet on silver prices rising, and the Hunts went broke.
 Now, from Germany we have a new version of the corner, using derivatives in a way that may have removed much of the risk for the people planning the corner. 
 Briefly, here are the relevant facts: Porsche, for some reason, wants to control Volkswagen, and has been building up its stake, thereby driving up the price. Hedge funds, figuring the share price would fall as soon as Porsche got control and stopped buying, sold a lot of VW shares short.
 Then last weekend, Porsche revealed that it owned 42.6 percent of the stock, and had acquired options for another 31.5 percent. It said it wanted to go to 75 percent.
 The result: instant short-squeeze. The German state of Lower Saxony owns a 20 percent stake in VW, which it said it would not sell. That left precious few shares available for anyone else. The shorts scrambled to cover, and the price leaped from about 200 euros to a high of over 1,000 euros. VW became the world's most valuable company, if you believed that market price.
 It appears that Porsche put one over on whoever wrote that option, or options. The options are said to be cash-settled, although we do not know much more about them than that. That means Porsche does not have to buy the shares -- which it might have a lot of trouble paying for. Instead, at settlement it merely has to accept the cash difference between the market price and the price it has agreed to pay. The result could be tens of billions of euros in profits, without the headache of owning shares no one else wants to buy.
 There has been a lot of speculation about who is on the hook for those options. Of course, those people may have used other derivatives to lay off some of their risk on who-knows-who-else. That is one result of having opaque markets, which Wall Street used to love because it made for higher profit margins. Now it may be one more loss for some already reeling bank or banks.
 After all this is done, the VW share price will fall to some more reasonable level. And there are rumors that Porsche has purchased put options, presumably with later exercise dates, to profit from that fall.
 By Tuesday night, the establishment was fighting back. Germany's premier stock index, the DAX, was changed to cut VW's proportion in it. That allowed index funds to sell stock, adding to the supply of shares, and VW's shares are back to about 500 euros.
 In the United States, there are numerous laws and regulations to stop corners. But Porsche insists it broke no German laws, adding that ''allegations of price manipulation by Porsche are therefore without any foundation whatsoever.'' It placed the blame on -- you guessed it -- ''speculative short sellers.''
 If this works, Porsche will have made billions from a car company at a time when cars are not selling very well. It will not have done that by selling cars, but a profit is a profit.
 Of course, rules can be changed, as Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt learned. The brothers angrily protested that it was unfair to change the rules in the middle of the game, but the rules were changed and the brothers went from billionaires to bankrupts.
 If it comes to a question of whether regulators step in, Porsche has the advantage of facing off against short-selling hedge funds. There may not be a less popular group of investors, and their losses would provoke little sympathy.
 But banks now have friends in high places. If Porsche's option coup threatens a major bank, the bank might ask for help. Will governments step in to protect their investments? Stay tuned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); DELISTINGS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); RETAILERS (62%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1276 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Sales Abroad Lift Profit for Avon

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Strong foreign sales helped Avon Products post a 60 percent increase in third-quarter profit, but adjusted earnings missed expectations and the company's shares fell to a seven-year low on Thursday. 
 Avon, which sells beauty products, jewelry and apparel, has been overhauling its business by cutting jobs, closing unprofitable operations and moving work to countries with lower labor costs.
 The company has also raised prices to help offset rising costs for commodities, like oil, which has increased the cost of manufacturing, packaging and distribution.
 Profit rose 60 percent to $222.6 million, or 52 cents a share, compared with $139.1 million, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 13 percent, to $2.64 billion, compared with $2.35 billion a year ago, partly because of higher prices and 15 percent growth in sales of beauty products.
 Shares of Avon, which is based in New York, fell $4.10, or 15 percent, to $22.57 a share.
 During the quarter, advertising costs rose 11 percent, to $106 million, as Avon increased marketing efforts to introduce products, including its Anew Rejuvenate skin care line.
 The company benefited from a weaker dollar and recorded strong sales growth abroad, especially in Latin America, where revenue rose 25 percent. Sales also rose 25 percent in China and climbed 17 percent in Central and Eastern Europe.
 Sales in North America grew just 3 percent. Sales of beauty products were flat, as the economy remained weak.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CLOSINGS (71%); US DOLLAR (71%)

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (74%)

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (74%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (70%); UNITED STATES (68%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1277 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: When Consumers Capitulate

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The long-feared capitulation of American consumers has arrived. According to Thursday's G.D.P. report, real consumer spending fell at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the third quarter; real spending on durable goods (stuff like cars and TVs) fell at an annual rate of 14 percent. 
 To appreciate the significance of these numbers, you need to know that American consumers almost never cut spending. Consumer demand kept rising right through the 2001 recession; the last time it fell even for a single quarter was in 1991, and there hasn't been a decline this steep since 1980, when the economy was suffering from a severe recession combined with double-digit inflation. 
 Also, these numbers are from the third quarter -- the months of July, August, and September. So these data are basically telling us what happened before confidence collapsed after the fall of Lehman Brothers in mid-September, not to mention before the Dow plunged below 10,000. Nor do the data show the full effects of the sharp cutback in the availability of consumer credit, which is still under way.
 So this looks like the beginning of a very big change in consumer behavior. And it couldn't have come at a worse time.
 It's true that American consumers have long been living beyond their means. In the mid-1980s Americans saved about 10 percent of their income. Lately, however, the savings rate has generally been below 2 percent -- sometimes it has even been negative -- and consumer debt has risen to 98 percent of G.D.P., twice its level a quarter-century ago. 
 Some economists told us not to worry because Americans were offsetting their growing debt with the ever-rising values of their homes and stock portfolios. Somehow, though, we're not hearing that argument much lately.
 Sooner or later, then, consumers were going to have to pull in their belts. But the timing of the new sobriety is deeply unfortunate. One is tempted to echo St. Augustine's plea: ''Grant me chastity and continence, but not yet.'' For consumers are cutting back just as the U.S. economy has fallen into a liquidity trap -- a situation in which the Federal Reserve has lost its grip on the economy.
 Some background: one of the high points of the semester, if you're a teacher of introductory macroeconomics, comes when you explain how individual virtue can be public vice, how attempts by consumers to do the right thing by saving more can leave everyone worse off. The point is that if consumers cut their spending, and nothing else takes the place of that spending, the economy will slide into a recession, reducing everyone's income.
 In fact, consumers' income may actually fall more than their spending, so that their attempt to save more backfires -- a possibility known as the paradox of thrift. 
 At this point, however, the instructor hastens to explain that virtue isn't really vice: in practice, if consumers were to cut back, the Fed would respond by slashing interest rates, which would help the economy avoid recession and lead to a rise in investment. So virtue is virtue after all, unless for some reason the Fed can't offset the fall in consumer spending. 
 I'll bet you can guess what's coming next. 
 For the fact is that we are in a liquidity trap right now: Fed policy has lost most of its traction. It's true that Ben Bernanke hasn't yet reduced interest rates all the way to zero, as the Japanese did in the 1990s. But it's hard to believe that cutting the federal funds rate from 1 percent to nothing would have much positive effect on the economy. In particular, the financial crisis has made Fed policy largely irrelevant for much of the private sector: The Fed has been steadily cutting away, yet mortgage rates and the interest rates many businesses pay are higher than they were early this year.
 The capitulation of the American consumer, then, is coming at a particularly bad time. But it's no use whining. What we need is a policy response.
 The ongoing efforts to bail out the financial system, even if they work, won't do more than slightly mitigate the problem. Maybe some consumers will be able to keep their credit cards, but as we've seen, Americans were overextended even before banks started cutting them off.
 No, what the economy needs now is something to take the place of retrenching consumers. That means a major fiscal stimulus. And this time the stimulus should take the form of actual government spending rather than rebate checks that consumers probably wouldn't spend.
 Let's hope, then, that Congress gets to work on a package to rescue the economy as soon as the election is behind us. And let's also hope that the lame-duck Bush administration doesn't get in the way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1278 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: South Koreans, Jittery Over Economy, Lose Faith in President's Business Skills

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Su Hyun Lee contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Many South Koreans have taken to blaming LeeMan Brothers for their nation's economic woes.
 No, they do not mean the failed American investment bank Lehman Brothers. Rather, they are making a play on the names of South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak, and his finance minister, Kang Man-soo, whom many here criticize as handling the recent market turmoil inconsistently.
 Dubbed the C.E.O. President, Mr. Lee swept into office in February promising to use his business acumen as a former construction company executive to revive the nation's economy. Instead, he stumbled from the start, and now finds himself fighting to regain credibility as South Korea, buffeted by the global financial turbulence, careens unsteadily toward a recession. 
 On Thursday, his government seemed to get a much-needed boost when the United States Federal Reserve agreed to open credit lines worth up to $30 billion to South Korea to alleviate a shortage of foreign currency that has hobbled its banks.
 Still, critics say Mr. Lee and his cabinet responded slowly to the crisis, which has struck South Korea and other emerging market nations with a vengeance. The country's stock market and its currency, the won, have been down more than 30 percent this year, though they gained some ground on Thursday. Critics also say Mr. Lee's government sent confusing and even contradictory signals at a time when communication was crucial for restoring confidence.
 But supporters say much of that criticism is unfair, given that the crisis originated in the United States. They also say that Mr. Lee is starting to find his stride, coming up with tax cuts and public money to stem the crisis.
 Backers and opponents alike agree that Mr. Lee still has a battle ahead to win back the faith of South Korea's often fickle public, which turned against him soon after he took office because of a trade deal resuming American beef imports. ''He is still struggling to live down the beef fiasco,'' said Jasper Kim, a professor of international relations at Ewha Women's University in Seoul. ''The public's loss of faith has hung over him during this financial crisis.''
 Mr. Lee still appears to have a long way to go in regaining that trust. An Oct. 20 opinion poll showed 24 percent of Koreans supporting Mr. Lee, and 31 percent approving of his handling of the economic crisis. That is up from an approval rating of 15 percent in June, when Seoul streets were filled with huge candlelight vigils against the American beef deal. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus five percentage points.
 ''People had high expectations of Lee Myung-bak with his image as being the economic president,'' said Yoon Hee-woong, a researcher at the Korea Society Opinion Institute, which conducted the polls. ''People got disappointed because they have yet to see the government perform.''
 After first playing down the threat, Mr. Lee changed his tune, saying last week that the financial crisis was worse than the crash of 1998, when the won plummeted. He has also taken measures aimed at shoring up the banking system and the broader economy, including cutting taxes, approving $4 billion in spending to stimulate construction and pledging $130 billion to ease banks' foreign currency shortages.
 On Monday he made a rare address to the National Assembly, warning South Koreans to ''pull together their strength and wisdom again,'' a reference to the nation's recovery from 1998.
 ''President Lee was slow to realize the seriousness of the crisis,'' said Kim Jung-sik, an economics professor at Yonsei University in Seoul. ''But he realizes it now.''
 Still, the perception remains that Mr. Lee and his ministers have been inconsistent on important economic issues and particularly on currency policy. The finance minister, Mr. Kang, initially backed a weak won to bolster exports. However, when that led to politically unpopular price increases for imported oil and other commodities, the government intervened to jack up the currency. When financial markets started tumbling last month, the government appeared to change again, not intervening to halt the won's fall.
 Critics say Mr. Lee's administration has also appeared inconsistent on another crucial issue, foreign reserves. The administration has said that South Korea holds enough dollars to repay all its loans from overseas, but has also urged companies and individuals to help the nation by exchanging their dollars for won. 
 ''One day, he says we're O.K. The next day, he says we are in trouble,'' said Lee Geun, a professor of international studies at Seoul National University. ''His flip-flopping has been very confusing.''
 Analysts say Mr. Lee badly needs to appear effective during the current crisis, after the setbacks on his major economic initiatives so far. The slowing economy makes it unlikely that he can deliver on campaign pledges of achieving 7 percent growth and a doubling of average annual incomes to $40,000. Mr. Lee, a former chief executive of Hyundai Construction, has also shelved for now his pet project of building a 336-mile canal across South Korea.
 ''Lee Myung-bak has not had a single big policy success so far,'' said Dr. Lee of Seoul National University. ''He needs something to show.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Lee Myung-bak, right, with Finance Minister Kang Man-soo this summer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JO BO-HEE/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BEEF (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); RECESSION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1279 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1934 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. 
 (Roberta Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson) WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'PICASSO'S MARIE-THEReSE' In 2006 Steve Wynn, of Las Vegas casino fame, was set to sell ''The Dream,'' a Picasso he owned, for the record price of $139 million. Then one day, while showing the collection to friends, he put his elbow through the painting. The sale was off; the picture was patched. Now it's the centerpiece of a gallery show with several other paintings of Marie-Therese Walter, Picasso's lover, with most of them on loan from museums. Close inspection reveals no visible trace of the elbow malfunction in Mr. Wynn's picture, though it does reaffirm Picasso's penchant for producing kitsch. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; through Nov. 29. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 OLAF BREUNING A found-object sculpture in this entertaining show consists of a scale balancing a bucketful of soft pink rubber breasts and a stack of old books. If this piece, titled ''The Big Challenge,'' strikes you as a funny and possibly profound meditation on the tension between the body and the mind, then Mr. Breuning's comical, often philosophically engaging exhibition of sculpture, large-scale photographs and small cartoon drawings is for you. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com, through Nov. 8. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 KIRK HAYES: 'LAUNCHED TO SINK' Mr. Hayes's works appear to be collages made of torn pieces of paper and cardboard, masking tape and bits of wood. Look closely, however, and you discover that, amazingly, most of what you see is actually carefully painted. While intimating bitter-sweet, obliquely autobiographical narratives, Mr. Hayes's works slyly comment on modern art's love of the raw and the naive. Sunday L.E.S., 237 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0700, sundaynyc.com; through Nov. 16. (Johnson)
 Last Chance
 'IMPLANT' Organized by a curator at the Horticultural Society of New York, ''Implant'' takes inspiration from Michael Pollan's 2001 book, ''The Botany of Desire,'' which suggests that plants are using us for evolutionary purposes just as much as we are using them. Musicians entertain the foliage in Peter Coffin's greenhouse; a tree in a digital animation by Hiraki Sawa trots on human legs through a Daliesque landscape. Roughly 100 works by 45 contemporary artists add to our sense of a gradual shift in the artist-plant relationship, from sublime awe in the face of nature to something more reciprocal. UBS Art Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, between 51st and 52nd Streets; (212) 713-2885, hsny.org; closes on Friday. 
 (Rosenberg)
 MEDARDO ROSSO Born in Turin, Italy, and trained in Milan, Medardo Rosso (1858-1928) crossed paths with Rodin in Paris, but they couldn't have been more dissimilar. Most of Rosso's sculptures were of bust-length heads, less portraits than distillations of feelings: joy, reverie, anxiety, exhaustion. And his subjects were often children, as is the case with three of the four pieces that make up this miraculous little show. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 * 'SCULPTING TIME' This exceptionally beautiful exhibition features four painters who are famous for repeating themselves over many years: Josef Albers, On Kawara, Giorgio Morandi and Roman Opalka. (A fifth, Andrew Grassi, who creates small, technically impressive Photorealist paintings, seems to have wandered in from another exhibition.) Sparely installed in a warren of eight intimate rooms, the show turns the gallery into a numinous aesthetic funhouse. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 RIRKRIT TIRAVANIJA: 'DEMONSTRATION DRAWINGS' This ambitious conceptual show by Rirkrit Tiravanija is made up of some 200 small, highly detailed graphite drawings of political demonstrations from around the world. Most of the images were derived from newspaper photographs and have the on-the-spot look of reportage. All were done by artists in Thailand working on generous commissions from Mr. Tiravanija, with proceeds from the sale of the pictures going to the Land Foundation, a sustainable housing community in Thailand. The results in the show: drawing, the sine qua non of ''real'' art, meets the real world, and paradoxes unroll. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org; closes on Thursday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); PAINTING (79%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1280 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'BROTHERHOOD'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Mobster and Politician, Neither Rolling in Clover

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
During the past decade, white working-class men and women have received far more attention from presidential candidates than they have from purveyors of a certain kind of upmarket popular culture who presume that the story of an alienated bricklayer in Harrisburg, Pa., would hold little interest for a software designer in Cupertino, Calif. 
 That sense of partisanship is particularly pronounced in premium cable television. And it is worth speculating whether ''Brotherhood,'' which begins its third exceptional season on Sunday, would have found its way to Showtime at all if not for Dennis Lehane, whose novels have brought white New England ethnics into artistic vogue. 
 Mr. Lehane's territory is the South End of Boston. ''Brotherhood'' is set 50 miles farther down I-95, in Providence, R.I., whose history of corruption the show's creator, Blake Masters, uses as if it were an environmental toxin eroding away at everything. In a fictional neighborhood called the Hill, the Caffee brothers claim authority, Tommy (Jason Clarke) from a Democratic seat in the state legislature and Michael (Jason Isaacs), his nemesis, from a middle-management perch in the local mob. 
 The Hill is predominantly Irish, but everywhere you look, that hegemony is dissipating -- Italians and Portuguese have long taken a piece of the action and the newly arrived Dominicans and Vietnamese are running drugs and undercutting profits from prostitution rings. When Tommy ran for re-election last season and realized Latinos weren't supporting him, he finagled early closes for voting booths in Hispanic neighborhoods and got volunteers to call his constituents and claim his opponent held anti-immigration positions. In this world corruption is institutionalized, the bedrock of civic life. There are no alternatives: governors and mayors and state senators distinguish themselves from one another only by the degree of their fraudulence. 
 The current season revolves in part around Tommy's wish to get out of the legislature and off the Hill, a desire that drives him to even more baroque duplicity. He is changing course not as a result of a bruised soul but because he realizes that all of his unsavory behavior still won't guarantee the ascension he has envisioned for himself. Comparisons to ''The Sopranos'' have been made since ''Brotherhood'' first appeared. But Tony Soprano had money and power -- his series was the product of a boom economy. Tommy is essentially forced to choose between the two. 
 ''Brotherhood'' seems to be distinctly a creation of Showtime, which has made its signature characters who rationalize self-interest as altruism. On ''Weeds,'' Nancy Botwin deals drugs, but it's to support her family. Dexter (of ''Dexter'') thinks of sating his blood lust as a vigilante mission. Tommy believes he is serving the needs of cops and carpenters and community organizers, and he imagines that there is something meaningful in guarding both the economic interests of the Irish as well as their tightly held sense of identity.
 ''The Sopranos'' was largely a narrative of assimilation, an Italian-American family striving to count in the affluent society. ''Brotherhood'' depicts a world more narrowly circumscribed -- one in which people aren't thinking much about making it even to the other side of town, where the children of the ruling class are going to Brown. Tommy and his wife, Eileen (Annabeth Gish), have three daughters, but you don't see medical school in their future. Aerial shots of Providence show circling highways outlining the city and trapping it, as if there really weren't anywhere to go. No show on television has better captured the will to ethnic insularity. 
 It is embodied most powerfully by the Irish actress Fionnula Flanagan, who plays the Caffee matriarch Rose with a ferocity that suggests she is channeling all the rage of the Gaelic wars. Michael has inherited his mother's indignation, and he now seems to be losing any rein over it, killing more indiscriminately as he realizes that his fraternal loyalty goes largely unreciprocated. As the brothers, both Mr. Isaacs and Mr. Clarke are actors of incredible focus who never let you imagine what they might look like happy.
 Michael and Tommy personify the show's central tension, which is not a battle between the dangerous and the ambiguously decent, but rather between the morally deadened and the ethically unhinged. The show continually asks us: What is worse, apathy or self-delusion? 
 ''Brotherhood'' seems to suffer under the misfortune of timing. Had it arrived 10 or 15 years earlier, when long-form narrative was not the dominant form on cable television, it would have been felt, arguably, more as an explosion than a trickle. The series has at least so far failed to find a large audience, indicating perhaps how much we have come to take good serial drama for granted. 
 It is a sign of how quietly the show has been received that it produced a landmark moment in modern television last season that went almost entirely unnoticed. Believing that a career criminal suffering from a mild form of brain damage would not exactly make for an ideal father, Michael's girlfriend, Kath (Tina Benko), aborted the baby they were going to have, without agonizing later that she had made the gravest mistake of her life. 
 This amounted to one of the most honest depictions of unplanned pregnancy in any medium in quite some time, and seemed to stand out especially on television, where women are typically saved from unwanted children by the convenient and politically neutral plot device of the miscarriage. (Or alternatively, they decide, like Miranda on ''Sex and the City,'' simply to have them.) Among its many virtues, ''Brotherhood'' isn't in the business of life lessons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian F. O'Byrne, left, and Jason Clarke in ''Brotherhood.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAIRE FOLGER/SHOWTIME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Brotherhood (TV Program)>; Brotherhood (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1281 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Fed Adds $21 Billion To Loans For A.I.G.

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The American International Group said Thursday that it had been given access to the Federal Reserve's new commercial paper program, allowing it to reduce its reliance on a costlier emergency loan from the Fed.
 The company said it would be able to borrow up to $20.9 billion under the new program, raising its maximum available credit from the Fed to $144 billion under three different programs. The credit includes an earlier emergency loan of $85 billion from the Fed that carries a much higher interest rate.
 A.I.G.'s big borrowings underscore the company's bewilderingly rapid decline. When it suddenly faced a cash crisis in mid-September, the original estimate of the amount it needed was just $20 billion. A few days later, the Fed stepped forward with its $85 billion credit line. And now, the stunning size of that original bailout has grown by almost 70 percent. 
 A.I.G.'s cash needs could grow even further. Much of the cash it needs is being used to meet collateral calls from its derivatives counterparties, and the precise collateral triggers and amounts are not public information. In general, the derivative contracts cost A.I.G. more as the real estate markets decline. The company's financial products division did a lot of business in that type of derivative, called credit-default swaps.
 By the same token, if real estate prices rebounded, A.I.G. has said, it could call some of the collateral back.
 In addition to the $85 billion credit line and the $20.9 billion commercial paper program, A.I.G. has a $38 billion facility from the Fed that provides liquidity for the company's securities-lending business. A.I.G. said on Thursday that it was currently using about $18 billion of this facility. 
 By tapping the newest source of money from the Fed, A.I.G. was able to reduce the amount it had borrowed under the original $85 billion line of credit, said a spokesman, Joe Norton. He said the company had currently drawn down $65.5 billion from that loan, compared with about $72 billion a week ago. 
 The Fed extended the original $85 billion line of credit at a steep price. On the part of the loan that A.I.G. draws down, it must pay an interest rate of 8.5 percentage points over the three-month Libor, an index rate for inter-bank lending. On the unused portion, A.I.G. must pay a fixed rate of 8.5 percent. In addition, the Fed added a 2 percent commitment fee to the total balance when it started the loan. 
 Mr. Norton said A.I.G. had incurred interest and fees of about $331 million so far. The Fed also took a majority stake in A.I.G. in exchange for the bailout, angering shareholders, who were almost completely wiped out. 
 The commercial paper program is much cheaper. The interest rate changes every day, but in the four days since the Fed started the program, the highest rate was just 3.89 percent. 
 A.I.G. is not the only participant. The Fed offered the program to all issuers of commercial paper in the nation to restart the stalled credit markets. 
 Mr. Norton said A.I.G. would use the newest source of funds for working capital, to refinance existing commercial paper, and to make voluntary prepayments on the $85 billion loan. He said that such voluntary prepayments would not reduce the total amount of the credit line available. If, by contrast, A.I.G. sold business assets and used the proceeds to pay down the loan, Mr. Norton said, the $85 billion balance would be reduced accordingly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1282 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Amid Talk of Hidden Deals, Wind Firms Agree to Code of Conduct

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Two of the state's largest developers of wind power agreed on Thursday to follow a new, stringent code of conduct created by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, who has been investigating the companies over allegations that they bribed or intimidated municipal officials to approve wind projects.
 By agreeing to follow the code of conduct, the companies, Noble Environmental Power and First Wind, agreed not to hire or give gifts to town officials responsible for approving wind power projects. The companies also agreed not to compensate the relatives of officials involved in deciding the fate of wind power installations, which have become a major source of income in many upstate communities. 
 In July, the attorney general's office began investigating a growing number of complaints from community groups, residents and law enforcement officials in upstate towns where wind farms were either built or being developed. No one has been prosecuted as a result of the investigation.
 But Mr. Cuomo expects that the Wind Industry Ethics Code will stem abuses and threats in communities where wind power companies are eager to install turbines. Mr. Cuomo expects other wind power companies to agree to follow the code as well. 
 ''Wind power is an exciting industry for the state that will be a cornerstone of our energy future,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''But it is important to make sure that this alternative-energy sector develops in a way that maintains the public's confidence, and that is what this new code of conduct does.''
 Mr. Cuomo's office also set up a task force to monitor compliance with the new code. The group includes three district attorneys, the executive directors of the New York State Association of Counties and the Association of Towns of the State of New York, and a director from the New York Public Interest Research Group.
 Companies caught violating the code of conduct can be fined up to $50,000 for a first offense and up to $100,000 for a second offense. Dozens of companies either have wind farms upstate or are trying to develop them.
 The attorney general's office has received many complaints about board members and other officials in upstate towns who received favors in return for approving the construction of windmills. In some cases, the complaints said, officials owned businesses that were hired by wind power companies. Mr. Cuomo is investigating whether different companies colluded to divide territory and avoid bidding against one another for the same land.
 Nine large wind farms housing 451 towers, each with a turbine, are operating in New York, with at least 840 more towers planned for construction. The towers are one of the few economic bright spots in some upstate counties. 
 The statewide guidelines governing wind companies could become a template for the policing of conflicts of interest in other industries, Mr. Cuomo said. ''There's no reason it shouldn't pertain to hotel developers, casino developers and road construction companies,'' he said.
 The attorney general dismissed concerns that the code of conduct would slow investment in wind power. Instead, he said, more projects probably will be approved because many opponents of wind farms have cited conflicts of interest by municipal officials as their reason for trying to block or slow construction.
 But Carol E. Murphy, executive director of the Alliance for Clean Energy New York, a trade group of environmental advocates and wind power producers, said opponents simply do not want the windmills in their backyards. ''The reason it's difficult to do business in New York is Nimby-ism and people not wanting to look at windmills,'' she said. 
 While Ms. Murphy said the code of conduct was sensible, she is worried that the new task force will become an additional way for opponents of wind power projects to try to block construction. ''The unfortunate thing is it singles wind out with a task force and gives an additional place for Nimbys to go to,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1283 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Fear in Motown

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Fall in this city has always felt a bit like spring elsewhere. It is traditionally the season of fresh starts for the hometown industry, a time when the auto companies get a jump on the calendar and begin shipping next year's models to dealers.
There were some new bright spots this fall, too -- or at least brighter ones. The once-grand Book Cadillac Hotel, long a dilapidated eyesore in the heart of downtown, reopened after a $200 million renovation. 
And the saga of Detroit's scandal-plagued former mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, finally ended Tuesday when he went to jail, providing relief to the city from an embarrassing run of headlines in the national media.
But even in a city that has always, of necessity, been able to cast a favorable light on the most difficult news, things could not look more bleak.
Detroit's auto companies are reeling from higher gas prices, a softening economy and tight credit that has made it harder for dealers to close a sale, even with eager buyers. Waves of layoffs for white-collar and blue-collar workers have sent the city's unemployment rate to a seasonally adjusted 8.9 percent, the second-highest rate for a United States metropolitan area, behind Riverside, Calif.
A recent headline in The Detroit Free Press captured the sense of hopelessness many people feel: ''Auto workers fear worst could get worse.''
The dire prospects for the auto companies, as they burn through billions in cash each month, have prompted General Motors and Chrysler to consider a merger that would turn Detroit's Big Three into two, a cultural shift that some people find hard to swallow.
''I would have never thought -- being born and raised here -- of one of the Big Three being gone,'' said Tom Carpenter, an electrician, who was attending the football game Saturday between Michigan State University and the University of Michigan (U. of M. lost, and is off to its worst start since 1962).
''We're all hurting,'' Mr. Carpenter added. ''It's getting scary.''
The consulting firm Grant Thornton said Thursday that half of Chrysler's 14 manufacturing plants might close in a merger and that hundreds of parts makers could go out of business.
The Michigan Economic Development Corporation has invited representatives from some cities and counties most likely to be affected by a merger to a meeting Friday near the G.M. technical center north of Detroit.
''No matter which way this goes, it's going to result in thousands of jobs lost, and not just in Michigan,'' said Richard E. Blouse Jr., president of the Detroit Regional Chamber. ''It does not take long for the ripple effect from the auto industry to go nationwide.''
Even before its talks with Chrysler became public, G.M. sought help from city pension funds, suggesting they provide $250 million for half the mortgage on its downtown headquarters, the Renaissance Center.
Few people can remember when it was this gloomy, even a generation ago when it looked like Chrysler might go belly up without federal help. At least back then, Chrysler's chief executive, Lee Iacocca, was around to provide the firepower needed to bolster the city's spirits.
''It's been a bad 20 years in Detroit, but this has been a very bad year and there's not even a light at the end of the tunnel,'' said Kevin Boyle, a Detroit native and professor of history at Ohio State University who has written extensively about the city.
The evidence is everywhere, from the mailboxes of city residents, where one in every 66 households has received a foreclosure notice, to restaurants, where many tables are empty by 9 o'clock on a weekend night.
Detroit's pro sports teams, long a refuge to distract the city from dreary news, are hurting, too. The Detroit Lions, winless through Week 7 of the season, failed to sell out last weekend -- a rare occurrence -- so their game with the Washington Redskins was blacked out on local TV.
Eddie Smith, of Canton Township, Mich., who works as a salesman for a printing company, said his firm was feeling the effects of the downturn, even though it did not have ties to the automakers. He said he was glad to have followed the advice of his father, who worked for a parts company. ''He told me, 'Do not get into the auto industry.' ''
With analysts predicting that 30,000 more Michigan jobs could be lost in a G.M.-Chrysler merger, the state's governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, has been creating contingency plans aimed at softening the blow.
Steps may include job-training programs for workers laid off by the two carmakers, as well as home mortgage assistance so jobless residents do not have to move elsewhere. There also may be help for communities that lose tax revenue because one of the companies has closed a part of its operations.
''What we can do is look at the worst-case scenario and try to move back from that,'' she said in an interview last week. ''It's so unthinkable, it's hard to digest.''
Ms. Granholm joined five other governors Thursday in asking the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve to take ''immediate action'' to aid the struggling automakers.
Even before the financial crisis, Governor Granholm and state lawmakers had been on a relentless drive to attract new investment to Michigan.
One new program offers generous incentives to entice film crews to Michigan. Movies have already started, including projects featuring Drew Barrymore and Michael Cera, who starred in ''Juno.''
But Detroit's dire straits have not escaped the attention of visiting celebrities. ''I am in detroit michigan/where the recession is already the depression,'' the actress and talk show host Rosie O'Donnell wrote on her blog last weekend. ''Hard 2 believe/unless u see it/we must save this city.''
Michael Smith, director of the Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University, expressed faint optimism that the city would bounce back, as it has from numerous past crises. ''This town, in a couple years when all the financial issues get straightened out, is still going to be pretty viable,'' he said. ''But tell that to the guy in the streets who lost his job.''
No matter the outcome, said Governor Granholm, ''I think we'll be a different state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: G.M. has sought help from Detroit pension funds for paying half the mortgage on its headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)(B1)
Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan, second from left, helped cut the ribbon for the refurbished Book Cadillac Hotel in Detroit
 Workers at a Chrysler plant in Warren, Mich. General Motors and Cerberus, the parent of Chrysler, are in merger talks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); SCANDALS (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%); LAYOFFS (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



1284 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Exxon's Profit Jumped To a Record in Quarter

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In what may prove to be a high-water mark for corporate profits, the oil giant Exxon Mobil reported another blowout quarter on Thursday, thanks to record oil prices this summer and gasoline prices that rose above $4 a gallon.
 With nearly $15 billion in profit, Exxon once more set a record for most profitable American corporation, during the three months that ended in September, when prices were at their highest. 
 Oil prices have dropped sharply in recent weeks, falling more than 50 percent from their peak just three months ago, as oil consumption slows in the economic downturn. 
 Exxon's report came as the Commerce Department said the economy shrank on an annual basis by 0.3 percent in the third quarter. The contraction, as consumers curbed their spending, signaled that the United States was probably in a recession.
 Still, the last quarter extended a staggering run for Exxon, which has routinely set records only to beat them. Exxon's profit has exceeded $10 billion in 9 of the last 12 quarters. The third quarter was no exception as Exxon's profit rose 58 percent, to $14.8 billion, exceeding its previous quarterly record by more than $3 billion.
 While the record earnings were well above analysts' expectations, they also masked a growing problem for Exxon. Its production has dropped because of contractual terms in places like Nigeria, falling output from mature fields, and disruptions caused by hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Exxon's combined oil and gas output fell 8 percent in the third quarter compared with the year-earlier period, to the equivalent of 3.5 million barrels a day. 
 But Exxon, which prides itself on its long-term view of the business, appeared unfazed by the decline. Thanks to seven major new projects starting this year, including offshore fields in Angola and Malaysia, and a large gas project in Qatar, the company expects its production to pick up in the fourth quarter and next year, according to Kenneth Cohen, the company's vice president of public affairs. 
 Excluding the effect of hurricanes and the impact of specific contracts that reduce its production when oil prices rise, Exxon's output would have dropped by 2 percent in the last quarter.
 ''These are uncertain and challenging times, and these are the times that our company is built to handle,'' Mr. Cohen said on a conference call. ''We understand we operate in a commodity business. We understand that the cycle will go up, and it will go down. We don't get excited in the highs; we don't panic in the lows.'' 
 Exxon is the latest oil giant to report stellar earnings. Royal Dutch Shell, Europe's biggest oil company, said earlier Thursday that its third-quarter profit rose 22 percent, to $8.45 billion, from $6.9 billion in the period a year ago. At the same time, Shell's crude oil and natural gas output declined 6.6 percent.
 Earlier this week, BP, ConocoPhillips and Occidental Petroleum reported big jumps in their earnings for the quarter. Chevron reports its earnings on Friday. 
 Exxon's profit has been frequently mentioned during the presidential campaign. With less than a week before the elections, the latest report provided more fodder for the company's critics. Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, estimated that the top five oil companies would earn $150 billion this year, and accused them of failing to invest enough in alternative fuels. 
 ''For these oil companies, there are hundreds of billions of reasons why they want to keep the status quo intact,'' Mr. Markey said in a statement. 
 But as prices fall, oil company profits are set to shrink in future quarters. During the third quarter, oil prices in New York have averaged $118 a barrel, compared with $75 a barrel in the same quarter last year. Since then, however, prices have plummeted from their peak above $145 a barrel in July. Some analysts say global oil demand could fall this year for the first time in a quarter-century.
 Oil prices fell $1.54, to $65.96 a barrel, on Thursday as the government's report on economic growth kindled concern. After being down throughout the day, Exxon's shares were unchanged at the end of the trading session at $74.65.
 The turnaround in oil prices has been surprisingly swift and could have a long-lasting impact on the world's energy supplies as some companies cut their spending and slash costs. Clarence P. Cazalot Jr., the president and chief executive of Marathon Oil, said his company would cut its capital expenditures by 15 percent next year. Marathon is also considering a potential breakup of the company's businesses, Mr. Cazalot said.
 ''Given the fall in the oil price, an issue for all oil and gas companies is current levels of capital expenditure,'' said Tony Shepard, an analyst at the broker Charles Stanley, based in London.
 Shell's chief executive, Jeroen van der Veer, said the company had decided to delay a decision to invest in the second expansion phase of its Athabasca oil sands project in Canada to wait for labor and raw material prices to fall. 
 ''We are watching the world economic situation closely,'' Mr. van der Veer said in a statement. ''Shell is robust across a wide range of energy prices.''
 But Exxon said it had no plans to cut back its investment program this year, which is projected to reach $25 billion. So far this year, the company has spent $19.3 billion on exploration, including $6.9 billion in the last quarter. 
 Exxon also continued to reward its shareholders generously. It gave back $10.1 billion in the third quarter -- dividends of $2.1 billion and share buybacks of $8 billion. The company said it had $37 billion in cash.
 ''Our investment strategy is consistent through business cycles, which has led to industry-leading returns in the past, and we believe we will continue to do so in the future,'' Mr. Cohen said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Falling gasoline prices may curtail future profit records. A tanker made a fuel delivery at an Exxon station in Little Rock, Ark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); WEATHER (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); MINING OUTPUT (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); HURRICANES (69%); CONTRACTS LAW (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (95%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (95%); RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1285 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 405 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN The economy contracted from July through September, the government reported, while consumer spending dipped for the first time in 17 years. 
 RESCUE CONUNDRUM Experts say it is difficult to devise programs to aid distressed homeowners without giving everyone else a reason to mail the keys back to their lenders. [A1.] 
 MOTOR CITY SPUTTERS For Detroit, things could not look more bleak: automakers are reeling from a softening economy, and the city's unemployment rate has reached 8.9 percent. [B1.]
 The Ford Motor Company, which has been struggling with falling sales, introduced a new version of its most important product, the F-150 pickup, and said it would call back 1,000 laid-off workers to help build more trucks. [B1.]
 BIG BORROWER The American International Group has access to $144 billion in credit from the Federal Reserve under three programs, but its cash needs could grow even further. [B1.]
 RUSSIAN UNEASE Russia's cash reserves have fallen to $484 billion, from a peak of just under $600 billion, putting the success of the economy in doubt. [B1.]
 A $50 billion bailout program in Russia has resulted in loans being given to well-connected Kremlin insiders. [B4.]
 TEAMWORK The flood of investigations that sprang from the financial crisis has led to an increase in cooperation among state and federal prosecutors, especially in New York. [B1.]
 MAGAZINE REDUCTIONS Conde Nast Publications said Men's Vogue would be folded into Vogue, while Portfolio would be cut to 10 times a year. [B2.]
 COST-CUTTING Electronic Arts, the video game publisher, said it would cut 6 percent of its work force after posting a wider second-quarter net loss. [B2.]
 RECORD PROFIT Exxon Mobil reported income that broke its own record as the most profitable American corporation, earning $14.8 billion in the quarter. [B3.]
 JOB CUTS Motorola said it would eliminate 3,000 jobs and delay a planned spinoff after posting a loss in the third quarter. [B3.]
 SPREADING PIXIE DUST The Walt Disney Company is trying to turn its Disney Fairies business, centered on Tinker Bell, into a franchise on the scale of Princesses, a line built around Snow White and Cinderella that generates $4 billion a year in sales. [B7.]
 HOLIDAY CHEER Many retail campaigns will start appearing on Saturday, the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, but the timing could hardly be worse. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); BAILOUTS (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (75%); TOYS & GAMES (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (66%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); EA (NASDAQ) (66%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1286 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: American Express Plans to Trim 7,000 Jobs to Save $1.8 Billion

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The American Express Company, a big credit card lender, said Thursday that it would cut 10 percent of its work force, or about 7,000 jobs, as the company braced for an economic slowdown. 
 Amex said it expected the move to save $1.8 billion in 2009, when it anticipates a wave of new losses and a decline in the growth of consumer credit card spending. 
 ''Card-member spending in such an environment is likely to be very slow. Loan growth will be restrained and some of that will reflect the steps we're taking to lower credit risk'' as the economy weakens, the chairman and chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said in a conference call earlier this month. ''To prepare for this difficult environment, we are moving ahead with plans'' to reorganize the business.
 American Express said Thursday that the reductions would occur across business units, markets and staff groups, primarily focusing on management and other positions that do not interact directly with customers. As part of the overhaul, American Express could take an after-tax charge of as much as $290 million in the fourth quarter. 
 ''The charge is primarily associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 7,000 jobs or about 10 percent of the company's worldwide work force,'' American Express said.
 In addition, a hiring freeze has been imposed, and the company said that it was suspending management-level raises next year. The company also plans to reduce investments in technology, marketing and business development.
 American Express, which recently reported a 24 percent drop in third-quarter profit, is the latest company to report job cuts in the financial sector, which has been rapidly contracting. Moody'sEconomy.com, a research firm, raised its projection of job losses in financial services by two-thirds this month, to 100,000 from 60,000, which, it said, would thrust the New York region into recession before the end of the year.
 American Express, one of the nation's biggest credit card lenders, traditionally catered to wealthier consumers, courting them with a valuable rewards program and a prestigious brand. But as competition intensified and the company began teaming with bank issuers, analysts said it began extending credit more liberally. The strategy helped power its growth, but has now left the company more vulnerable to a recession. 
 American Express said that it wrote off about 5.9 percent of its credit card loans in the third quarter, and that the rate would increase over at least next two quarters. In September, the rate was about 6.1 percent. Executives said on the conference call earlier this month that the rapid acceleration was a result of the large number of small businesses that make up its customer base and the large concentrations of affluent cardholders who live in Florida and California, where home prices have plummeted. 
 Beyond higher losses, American Express faces tremendous pressure on its profits. Its financing costs have increased considerably amid the turmoil in the capital markets. Loan growth has slowed, as the company has tightened its lending standards and pulled in credit lines for customers who live in the weakest housing markets, work in troubled industries or even shop in the same stores as other risky borrowers. And executives are bracing for a slowdown in consumer spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Express, which is based in the World Financial Center in Manhattan, says it will suspend raises for managers next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%)

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1287 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A Retailer's Bet on Tony Bennett

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ON his new holiday album, Tony Bennett does not sing the song from ''Mame'' called ''We Need a Little Christmas.'' But retailers, confronting what may be the most challenging holiday season in years, are sponsoring a sleigh full of promotions -- even one featuring Mr. Bennett -- meant to convince consumers they still need to do a little -- nay, a lot -- of Christmas shopping. 
 Many retail campaigns will start appearing on Saturday; the day after Halloween has become the traditional start of the crucial holiday shopping season. But the timing could hardly be worse, coming amid the financial crisis and the turmoil on Wall Street -- and two days after the release of dismal economic data showing that consumer spending dropped for the first time since 1991, a severe recession year. 
 ''Nobody is going to say the fourth quarter won't be tough,'' said Jack Hruska, executive vice president for creative services at the Bloomingdale's division of Macy's Inc. Still, ''we didn't pull back,'' he added, because that would be ''foolish.''
 ''People want to feel good about the holidays and what the holidays mean,'' Mr. Hruska said, ''sharing time with family and friends.''
 And ''shopping can take your mind off the uncertainty we have to live with every minute of the day,'' he added. ''Even if you don't buy anything, you can always wander around and do something free at Bloomingdale's.''
 Bloomingdale's is making Mr. Bennett the centerpiece of an elaborate holiday promotion with the theme ''Oh what fun.'' The campaign extends a fall promotion focused on music with elements that include selling in stores and online special versions of the new Bennett album, ''A Swingin' Christmas Featuring the Count Basie Big Band,'' that contain a bonus track, ''Jingle Bells.'' Mr. Bennett has been asked to perform when the holiday windows are introduced at the Lexington Avenue store on Nov. 20, and an organization named Musicians On Call will get help raising money to bring recorded and live music to hospital patients.
 The campaign features Mr. Bennett's work as an artist as well as a singer. His painting of Santa Claus and a Maltese -- modeled after his own dog -- riding in a taxicab past the windows will be featured on the Bloomingdale's holiday shopping bags.
 ''One thing about the holidays: No matter what happens, the holidays soften everybody,'' Mr. Bennett said in a telephone interview from Dallas, where he performed two concerts this week. 
 The campaign comes two years after Mr. Bennett promoted an album, ''Duets,'' with two retailers, Target and Starbucks. As a native New Yorker, Mr. Bennett said, he has a fondness for Bloomingdale's, explaining: ''My mom was adamant about not buying anything. Except if it was from Bloomingdale's, it was O.K.''
 Mr. Bennett's son, Danny, who is his longtime manager, was asked about his father's appearance in a campaign for a big retailer at this fraught time for the national economy.
 ''If you look at history, during the Great Depression, entertainment became the escape for everybody,'' Danny Bennett replied, adding: ''For $10, you can buy a CD you can have forever. In a time where there's belt-tightening, music is an excellent value and makes an emotional connection.''
 According to Mr. Hruska, Bloomingdale's is not changing any aspects of the campaign because of the recent economic downturn. That includes having the Infiniti luxury division of the Nissan Motor Company sponsor the introduction of the holiday windows and selling, through the 725,000 copies of the Bloomingdale's holiday catalog, a ''premier edition'' of the 2009 Infiniti G convertible.
 ''The luxury market has been impacted like the rest of the car market'' by the economy, said Ben Poore, vice president for marketing at Infiniti. But ''there's still great demand for product like this that's unique, that's exclusive,'' he added, referring to a plan to limit to 200 the number of Infinitis to be sold through Bloomingdale's starting Nov. 10.
 By comparison, another coming holiday campaign, for an organization known as the Alliance for Downtown New York, has been modified since the financial crisis intensified in mid-September. The organization manages the Lower Manhattan Business Improvement District.
 ''We've tweaked the message to reflect consumer uncertainty and anxiety,'' said Elizabeth H. Berger, president of the alliance, by ''emphasizing value and affordable luxury'' at the stores in Lower Manhattan in the campaign. ''To the extent people are buying presents,'' she added, ''we want them to buy them down here.''
 A goal of the campaign, scheduled to start in mid-November, is to counter some of the negative publicity generated by the financial crisis.
 ''The national media keep conflating what happens with financial services, 'Wall Street,' with Wall Street,'' Ms. Berger said.
 ''There isn't a story that doesn't show our sign,'' she added, referring to the street signs the organization furnishes that appear in high-profile locations like outside the New York Stock Exchange.
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $300,000, is being created internally at the organization and by Farago Design in New York. It carries themes like ''Downtown: Your season ticket to the holidays'' and promotes restaurants and attractions, in addition to stores.
 The idea is to attract residents of the New York area considering thrifty holiday ''staycations,'' Ms. Berger said, as well as tourists.
 The campaign consists of brochures, ads in newspapers and magazines, posters, billboards, e-mail newsletters and a section of the organization's Web site (downtownny.com/shop).
 The media plan was expanded after the financial crisis grew, she added, to include a presence in PATH train cars and on station platforms.
 An additional $40,000 will be spent to generate interest in Lower Manhattan among retailers and the real estate brokers who find the spaces they lease or buy for stores.
 As part of that effort, the downtown alliance will be represented at an annual conference sponsored by the International Council of Shopping Centers, to be held at the New York Hilton on Dec. 8-10.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A painting by Tony Bennett is on the Bloomingdale's bag.
 A brochure in the campaign by the Alliance for Downtown New York, which altered its plans because of the financial crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); RECESSION (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); HALLOWEEN (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PAINTING (64%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (91%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1288 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; PUSHING THE LIMIT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Ex-N.F.L. Star Dreams of Taking Sports to Space

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
GREENBELT, Md. -- The game would be called Float Ball. It would combine elements of basketball, football and the Lionel Richie video for ''Dancing on the Ceiling'' into a sort of free-for-all, compelling weightless players to bounce off walls, obstacles and one another while herding weightless balls of various colors to either end of the playing space, which would be placed inside the cabin of a zero-gravity plane or, possibly, on the moon. Eventually, one day, if all went well, some sort of custom arena would be constructed. On Mars.
''There's a bonus,'' said the game's promoter, Ken Harvey, speaking to an attentive audience of National Aeronautics and Space Administration engineers, technicians and scientists at the Goddard Space Flight Center here recently, ''where you have to pick up a person holding a certain ball and throw them through a hoop as a sort of extra point.'' 
The football analogy seemed to come easily to mind. Ken Harvey was that Ken Harvey, No. 57 in your Washington Redskins program for much of the late 1990s. Playing linebacker during the largely highlight-free interregnum of Coach Joe Gibbs, Harvey made four appearances in the Pro Bowl.
Now 43, he has not played a down since he dropped out of training camp in 1999. This year, he took a day job in the front office, where he has been charged with serving, according to Redskins management, ''as a resource and adviser in the development of responsibility initiatives.''
With two sons nearing college age, Harvey has taken the steady, earthbound gig as an anchor while training his restless imagination on a high-concept project he has called, somewhat risibly, SpaceSportilization.
''I did things the hard way getting to the pros, and I'm doing things the hard way now,'' he said during an interview in a back room of the space center, where a disused model satellite served as decoration. ''But sometimes you've got to believe the unbelievable.''
For Harvey, the hard way had included dropping out of high school, working in a fast-food restaurant and rising through the junior college circuit before starting his career with the Phoenix Cardinals. After his run with the Redskins, there was talk of additional millions, then there were injuries and then there was talk of hundreds of thousands. He walked away from a shrinking pile of money into the booby-trapped netherworld of N.F.L. retirement.
While casting about as a motivational speaker, Harvey struck up a friendship with Allen Herbert, a fellow congregant at Grace Covenant Church in Chantilly, Va. Herbert, a consultant who studied aerospace engineering in college, encouraged him to consider the outer reaches of the tourism business.
In recent years, the space industry has turned increasingly to private sources of finance and inspiration. The Office of Commercial Space Transportation, a unit of the Federal Aviation Administration, has started licensing businesses for suborbital flights. One company, Virgin Galactic, has collected more than $25 million in deposits from about 250 prospective passengers.
Seeking his own role with some degree of skepticism, Harvey met with Eric Anderson, the president of Space Adventures, a private company in Vienna, Va., that has delivered six paying customers to the International Space Station.
''I've always been protective,'' Harvey said, ''because everyone's always trying to use players.''
Anderson, whose company also operates suborbital flights providing five minutes of weightlessness for $5,000, said in an interview that a Float Ball league would require a couple of decades of significant reductions in the cost of space travel. In the meantime, he said, thinking big can hardly hurt, least of all when the big thinker is a famous football player.
''Ken is a friend, and someone who has the ability to make things happen,'' Anderson said. ''It just helps get people excited about space.''
In the end, Harvey's inner Star Trek fan guided him away from the steakhouses and car dealerships of traditional N.F.L. retirement. Taking Herbert as a business partner, he set to work developing a futuristic movie, promoting envisioned athletic offshoots of extraterrestrial tourism and designing Float Ball. He has been invited to address the Global Space Technology Forum in Abu Dhabi next month.
Upon arrival here at the space flight center, on an invitation from the National Society of Black Engineers, Harvey excited a stir of autograph seekers in the security checkpoint.
Inside the campus, a collection of low-slung brick buildings dating to the 1950s, he was escorted on a tour of communications centers stranded in time, working rooms behind glass replete with mainframe computers, heavy phones and framed portraits of astronauts. The only thing missing seemed to be sweaty guys in thin neckties leaning over smoldering ashtrays. His guides spoke of long-ago flush times for space exploration in the cold war.
''You had somebody to compete against,'' Harvey said, ''like Redskins against Cowboys.''
When the time came for his presentation, Harvey descended the steps of a flag-decked auditorium. Stocky and bald-shaven, dressed in a patterned tie, gray suit, brown loafers and interlocking silver bracelets, he stood before a projection screen that displayed grainy images of the SpaceLab scientists performing gymnastic routines.
His audience, about 40 NASA specialists, fell silent. Harvey ran through a series of slides covering the troubled economy, the promise of space tourism, citations of sports in the work of science fiction novelists and precedent-setting events like Alan Shepard's lunar golf shot. He cracked jokes, digressed liberally and quickly won over the group.
''You may say, what the heck is all this?'' Harvey told his audience. ''You're talking about sports and entertainment complexes on the moon.''
Advanced concepts like the Float Ball league, he argued, would develop in time from astronaut fitness programs, virtual reality games, zero-gravity flights and educational efforts designed to instill post-space age children with new interstellar dreams.
''Sometimes,'' he said, ''it doesn't happen in your generation, but you plan to see it in the next generation.''
Then the NASA employees quizzed Harvey on his strategy for making money from space sports, a goal that has largely eluded him so far. From the fifth row, Rosalyn Nelson, a thermal blanket technician, asked how the general public could afford games like Float Ball.
''Great, great, great question,'' Harvey said. ''Next, please.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ken Harvey, a former Washington Redskins linebacker, in a zero-gravity plane. Harvey is promoting a project he calls SpaceSportilization. PHOTOGRAPHS TOP, DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW,ZERO GRAVITY CORPORATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (76%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); SPACECRAFT (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (82%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



1289 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: At Meadowlands Stadium, Lots of Bells and Whistles

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
The new football stadium in the Meadowlands will have accessories beyond the luxury suites and the large video boards in all four corners.
 It will also be surrounded by a fenced-in security perimeter 100 feet to 150 feet wide. And the bottom of the exterior walls will be blast-resistant, George Heinlein, the principal architect, said in a telephone interview from Kansas City, Mo.
 ''We have reinforced all the column bases,'' Heinlein said. ''If somebody does get past that first line and up against the building -- if they were to carry a bomb in a backpack or something like that and set it off -- we have resistance at the base of the building.''
 Heinlein said the National Football League increased security requirements after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The secured perimeter will double as a plaza for ticketed fans, according to Heinlein and Mark Lamping, the executive supervising the construction. 
 The stadium for the Giants and the Jets is 55 percent complete, Lamping said, ahead of schedule for its 2010 opening. As many as 1,600 workers provide a daily cacophony of mechanical grinding, metallic thumping and high-pitched beeping amid constant clouds of swirling dust.
 ''We're in great shape,'' said Lamping, president and chief executive of the New Meadowlands Stadium Company L.L.C. ''A lot's been done. But we still have a long way to go.''
 The cost, according to the Giants' president, John Mara, and the Jets' owner Robert Johnson IV, will be about $1.6 billion -- up from the $1.3 billion estimate of last year. Both teams should sell all their seats and suites, Mara said, despite the present economic crisis.
 ''The process has slowed down a little bit,'' Mara said of suite sales, ''but I don't think in a significant manner. We're well over halfway sold.''
 Johnson said he expected no lack of demand due to either the economic downturn or the competition from the two new baseball stadiums opening next spring in New York and the hockey arena for the Devils that opened in Newark last season.
 ''You have different buyers,'' Johnson said in a telephone interview. ''The baseball and hockey buyers are different than the football buyers. I haven't personally felt any of that, that there's competition.''
 The new stadium will have about 200 suites, compared with 118 in Giants Stadium, Lamping said. On a recent sunny day, four construction workers walked to the top of the new stadium to eat lunch.
 With no chairs there yet, they sat on the steep concrete tiers of the partly built upper deck. From their perch, the workers could see Manhattan to the east and Giants Stadium next door.
 Below them was the vast, hollow interior of the new structure, which will be twice as large as the current stadium to accommodate wide concourses and clubs within.
 Heinlein, the principal architect of 360 Architecture, said his design blends the best of 21st-century amenities with the ancient ambience of the Colosseum in Rome. His structure will not duplicate what he says are mistakes in stadiums in Pittsburgh, Indianapolis and Dallas.
 ''We have lost our way,'' Heinlein said of football stadium design. He said architects try to put too many people up too high on the sidelines and have abandoned end-zone grandstands to allow views of city skylines.
 That concept works for baseball stadiums, Heinlein said, because baseball is a leisurely summer sport in which fans ''get up, they mosey around.'' But football, he said, ''is a gladiator sport'' better presented when a big crowd surrounds the rectangular field.
 When sound cannot escape, he said, it is a home-field advantage. ''You create intimidation,'' Heinlein said. ''You lose a tremendous amount of energy inside the stadium when you open almost the entire end zone up.''
 He cited Heinz Field in Pittsburgh, where one end zone is almost entirely void of seats. ''I think they will regret doing that over time,'' Heinlein said.
 So the new Meadowlands stadium will have 82,500 seats rising high on all four sides. Although the top rows will be 30 feet farther from the field than in the current 80,242-seat stadium, Heinlein said, they will not be as distant as the highest seats in other new stadiums with smaller capacities.
 Another problem of modern stadium design, Heinlein said, is that extra decks accommodate more luxury boxes at low levels. To keep upper decks as close to the field, he said, architects compromise the sightlines of the lower decks.
 That makes it harder for people to see over those in front of them. ''The rake of the lower bowl is sometimes decreased slightly so that they can keep the upper deck where they want it and be able to put as much premium product in the middle section,'' Heinlein said. 
 The new Meadowlands stadium, he said, will have ''a very steep lower bowl.''
 Heinlein said he had spent most of his career designing arenas for basketball and hockey, and that some of those newer buildings had already been renovated.
 The problem is the luxury boxes, he said, which do not sell as well as predicted. ''My gut is telling me we're going to have to try to figure out a way to give the buildings back to the fans,'' he said.
 Heinlein designed Chicago's United Center and said he went back to remove 18 suites and turn that space into seating that cost less. ''You have to have something for every revenue stream in the marketplace,'' he said.
 But Heinlein said he did not foresee this problem in the New York area. ''New York is obviously a different economic base,'' Heinlein said. ''It's strong from a suite perspective.''
 Still, there is some discontent in other areas. Some fans, particularly those of the Giants, have objected to personal seat licenses, which they must purchase before buying season tickets.
 In addition, the effort to sell naming rights to a corporate sponsor became controversial because one bidder, Allianz, a German-based insurance company, had business ties to Nazi Germany. (That bid has been withdrawn.)
 Johnson said he did not think that setback would affect the market for naming rights in a metropolitan region of 20 million people in the media capital of the United States.
 ''A tremendous opportunity for any company,'' Johnson called it. ''There's no place they can get what they are getting from the Jets and the Giants. It is probably the most enticing naming-rights opportunity that exists anywhere.''
 Both Johnson and Mara said the teams considered adding a retractable roof that could have put the stadium in the Super Bowl rotation. But they decided against it.
 ''Spending $400 million and getting one Super Bowl, it's hard to imagine how that would pay for itself,'' Johnson said, adding that ''there was hardly an indication you could make any of that back by having indoor events.''
 Mara said money generated by the new stadium, ''provided we sell everything,'' would put both the Giants and the Jets among the top four teams in revenue in the 32-team N.F.L.
 Currently, he said, the two New York teams are in the bottom half. But, as with many economic models, there is a downside.
 ''Both teams will move to Nos. 1 and 2 in terms of amount of debt service,'' Mara said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The new, still unnamed, football stadium for the Jets and the Giants is rising next to Giants Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK JETS (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1290 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'APPALOOSA' (R, 1:47) Ed Harris, who directed, stars with Viggo Mortensen, Renee Zellweger and Jeremy Irons in this sly, relaxed western, which is less concerned with gunfighting and law and order than with jealousy, friendship and the perils of frontier romance. It's a somber shoot-em-up with the mischievous soul of a sex comedy. (A. O. Scott)
 'AZUR & ASMAR' (PG, 1:39) Unfolding in a flat, luminous storybook style, this handsome animated fable from France tells of two boys on a quest to release an enchanted fairy and re-establish their childhood friendship. (Nathan Lee) 
 'BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA' (PG, 1:25) As multimillion-dollar frivolities about the pets of the ruling class go, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is reasonably diverting. As one released in the middle of an economic meltdown, its mere existence feels utterly insane. (Lee) 
 'BODY OF LIES' (R, 2:06) Ridley Scott's new movie raises a potentially disturbing question. If terrorism has become boring, does that mean that the terrorists have won? Or, conversely, is the grinding tedium of this film good news for our side, evidence of the awesome might of Western popular culture, which can turn even the most bloodthirsty real-world villains into fodder for contrived and lifeless action thrillers? (Scott)
 'CHANGELING' (R, 2:01) Clint Eastwood directs Angelina Jolie in this long, shapeless tale of a mother in distress, based on the true story of Christine Collins, whose young son disappeared in Los Angeles in 1928. There are some effective scenes, but the labored period details, the flagging pace and Ms. Jolie's exhausting performance get in the way of any real intensity or insight. (Scott) 
 'EAGLE EYE' (PG-13, 1:58) Shia LaBoeuf and Michelle Monaghan on the run from something. From what? A ticked-off government computer, apparently. Did I spoil it? Sorry. I mean, you're welcome. (Scott)
 'THE EXPRESS' (PG, 2:09) Like ''Glory Road,'' ''The Great Debate'' and numerous similar movies, ''The Express'' packages a real-life story of athletic triumph and social progress into an accessible, rousing melodrama that is no less potent for being almost entirely predictable. (Scott)
 'FEAR(S) OF THE DARK' (No rating, 1:20, in French) Shot in luminous whites, pulsing blacks and gorgeous grays, this animated anthology showcases six of today's most talented graphic artists. Exploring sexual insecurity, rural superstition and sociopolitical anxieties, the stories unfold with an inventiveness that's seldom scary but never less than mesmerizing. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'FIREPROOF' (PG, 2:02) In this film aimed at the Christian market, Kirk Cameron plays a firefighter who tries to save his marriage by embarking on a faith-based regimen called the Love Dare, but his wife (Erin Bethea) seems unresponsive. It's a much better attempt to merge storytelling with faith than is usual for the genre, and the amateur cast is surprisingly good. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'THE FIRST BASKET' (No rating, 1:26) The little-known history of Jewish participation in, and influence on, the game of basketball is remembered in this functional, if narrowly interesting, history lesson. (Lee)
 'FLASH OF GENIUS' (PG-13, 2:00) In this doggedly workmanlike and passionless variation on the lone crusader doing battle with the big, bad establishment, Greg Kinnear plays the real-life inventor of the intermittent windshield wiper who sued Ford for stealing his patent. 
 (Stephen Holden)
 'FRONTRUNNERS' (No rating, 1:23) Without forcing comparisons, this mild-mannered documentary finds parallels between the national presidential elections and a recent competition for the presidency of the student union at Stuyvesant High School in New York City. (Holden)
 'HAPPY-GO-LUCKY' (R, 1:58) Happiness is a complicated, difficult matter, and for the bopping bloom at the center of Mike Leigh's generous, expansive new film -- a gurgling stream of giggles, laughs and words played by a glorious Sally Hawkins -- it's also a question of faith. 
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'HIGH SCHOOL MUSICAL 3: SENIOR YEAR' (G, 1:40) The third chapter of this Disney musical franchise moves smoothly from the Disney Channel to the big screen. If the story is negligible, as long as the film is singing and dancing, it is irresistibly peppy froth set in wholesome teenage never-never land. (Holden)
 'I SERVED THE KING OF ENGLAND' (R, 1:58, in Czech) There is hardly a moment in this picaresque slapstick epic, directed by Jiri Menzel (''Closely Watched Trains'') and set mainly in 1930s and '40s Czechoslovakia that you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events. (Holden)
 'I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG' (PG-13, 1:55, in French) The French novelist Philippe Claudel, making his debut as a director, shows sobriety and restraint in this story of a woman making her way back into normal life after serving a prison sentence for the murder of her son. Kristin Scott Thomas gives a remarkable lead performance, and Elsa Zylberstein as her sister is nearly as good. A climactic plot twist cheapens and diminishes the film somewhat, but it is still, for the most part, a powerful and subtle melodrama. (Scott)
 'MAX PAYNE' (PG-13, 1:40) In this video-game-based action-revenge spectacle, Mark Wahlberg battles winged creatures, drug addicts and a ruthless pharmaceutical company. Or something. (Scott)
 'PASSENGERS' (PG-13, 1:40) Heaven knows why reputable actors like Anne Hathaway, Patrick Wilson and Dianne Wiest attached themselves to ''Passengers,'' a supernatural thriller so mechanically inept and lacking in suspense that it doesn't pass muster as lowbrow Halloween-ready entertainment. (Holden)
 'PRIDE AND GLORY' (R, 2:05) An extended family of Irish cops fighting, shouting and weeping in New York. Nothing you haven't seen before, but not badly directed by Gavin O'Connor, and featuring a fine, quiet performance by Noah Emmerich, who steals the picture from the designated blusterers Colin Farrell and Edward Norton. (Scott)
 'QUARANTINE' (R, 1:26) The recent resurgence of the pseudo-documentary horror movie continues with this tale of a television news team trapped in an urban apartment building whose residents are harboring a mysterious infection. Cleverly working his claustrophobic setting (and the adapted script from the Spanish movie ''[REC]''), the director, John Erick Dowdle, keeps the action tight and the injuries nasty. (Catsoulis)
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'RELIGULOUS' (R, 1:41) The comedian and outspoken religious nonbeliever Bill Maher travels the world interviewing Christians, Jews and Muslims about their beliefs, which he views as dangerous nonsense.
 (Holden)
 'ROCKNROLLA' (R, 1:57) In his latest, the director Guy Ritchie pumps up the volume, tilts the camera, flexes the muscle, struts the stuff for some bang bang, blah blah. (Dargis)
 'SAW V' (R, 1:39) It would be nice to be able to say that the latest installment of the ''Saw'' franchise is a revolting, nerve-racking trip into the cesspool of the human imagination, since that seems to be the general point of this undying franchise. This time around, however, the result is just plain boring, and even a little tame -- albeit by the standards of a genre that helped bring the phrase ''torture porn'' into existence. (Lee)
 'A SECRET' (No rating, 1:45, in French) Claude Miller's adaptation of Philippe Grimbert's autobiographical novel is a subtle and moving exploration of intimacy and desire in a French Jewish family before and after World War II. (Scott)
 'THE SECRET LIFE OF BEES' (PG-13, 1:50) A warm bath of folksiness, racial tolerance, life lessons and honey in South Carolina, around 1964, from Sue Monk Kidd's best seller. (Scott) 
 'SEX DRIVE' (R, 1:48) Sean Anders's aggressively puerile, fitfully amusing and sluggish teenage sex comedy reserves all its creativity for ways to revolt and ostensibly delight its target audience. (Dargis)
 'STRANDED: I'VE COME FROM A PLANE THAT CRASHED ON THE MOUNTAINS' (No rating, 2:06, in Spanish) The 16 survivors of the famous 1972 plane crash in the Andes that decimated a Uruguayan rugby team and forced them to cannibalize the corpses of the casualties to stay alive, tell their story in Gonzalo Arijon's documentary. It is an inspiring story of teamwork and solidarity. (Holden)
 'SYNECDOCHE, NEW YORK' (R, 2:04) To say that Charlie Kaufman's feature debut is one of the best films of the year or even the one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. (In other words: Go!) (Dargis)
 'TYLER PERRY'S THE FAMILY THAT PREYS' (PG-13, 1:51) The suds that cascade through Tyler Perry melodrama more than equal the cubic footage from nighttime soaps like ''Dallas,'' ''Dynasty'' and their offspring. (Holden)
 'THE UNIVERSE OF KEITH HARING' (No rating, 1:30) The life and times of the artist Keith Haring are remembered in this loving, if routine, documentary. (Lee)
 'W.' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither a pure (nor impure) sendup of the president nor a wholesale takedown, Oliver Stone's queasily entertaining biopic reminds us what a long, strange trip it's been to the Bush White House. Josh Brolin stars as the frat boy who would be king. (Dargis)
 'WHAT JUST HAPPENED' (R, 1:50) Who cares? (Scott)
 Film Series
 'EL FUTURO MAS ACA: THE FUTURE SOUTH OF THE BORDER' (Friday through Sunday) This series offers a peek into the universe of Mexican science-fiction, courtesy of Cinema Tropical and the Mexican Cultural Institute of New York. Titles to be screened include Alfredo B. Crevenna's 1965 ''Planet of the Female Invaders,'' in which a Mexican boxer and his entourage are captured by aliens and spirited off to the matriarchal planet Sibila (Friday and Saturday); Crevenna's 1966 ''El Santo vs. the Martian Invasion,'' featuring the venerable wrestler-action star Santo -- the Man in the Silver Mask -- battling three-eyed space invaders (Friday and Sunday); and Rafael Portillo's 1957 ''Aztec Mummy vs. the Human Robot,'' the third and final installment of the trilogy starring Popoca, a mummified Aztec warrior who comes back to life to protect the treasure buried in a royal tomb. Itala Schmelz, one of the programmers of the series, will moderate a discussion on Saturday at 6 p.m. 92Y Tribeca, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org/film; $12. (Dave Kehr)
 MIAAC 2008 (Wednesday and Thursday) The eighth annual Mahindra Indo-American Arts Council film festival opens on Wednesday at Frederick P. Rose Hall with a gala premiere for ''Heaven on Earth,'' a new feature by Deepa Mehta (''Water'') about a young bride who finds refuge from her harsh family life by indulging in fantasy. The festival, devoted to films of the Indian diaspora, continues through Nov. 9 with 31 other film premieres, panel discussions, an art exhibition and a concert at several locations around the city, including the Museum of Art and Design and the TriBeCa Cinemas. (212) 594-3685, iaac.us/MIAAC2008; $15 for most films. (Kehr)
 'UNIDENTIFIED FILMIC OBJECTS: THE FILMS OF JEAN-DANIEL POLLET' (Friday through Wednesday) The French filmmaker Jean-Daniel Pollet is known in America, if he is known at all, only for his contribution to the anthology film ''Six in Paris,'' but there is much more to his eccentric, unclassifiable body of work. This series includes ''Mediterranee'' (1963), a lyrical sort-of-documentary with a narration by Philippe Sollers and a score by Antoine Duhamel; ''L'Ordre,'' a strange and powerful 1973 study of an abandoned leper colony; ''L'Amour C'est Gai, L'Amour C'est Triste,'' a broad 1971 comedy about a sexually anxious tailor; and Mr. Pollet's most recent feature, ''Ceux d'en Face'' (2000), a two-handed drama starring Michael Lonsdale and Valentine Vidal. A generous selection of Mr. Pollet's short films rounds out the programs in the series, which will be shown in rotation through Wednesday. Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org, $8. (Kehr) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ANIMATION (79%); TERRORISM (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (59%); CLINT EASTWOOD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1291 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Cigna Reports Quarterly Profit Down 53%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The health insurer Cigna Corporation posted a 53 percent decline in third-quarter profit and forecast disappointing profit growth for 2009 as it continued to struggle with competition and broader economic turmoil. 
 The company projected its enrollment would fall by about 2 percent next year as it lost members to lower-priced rival plans and employer layoffs. Cigna also cut its health insurance outlook for 2008, its second cut since August.
 For the quarter, net income fell to $171 million, or 62 cents a share, from $365 million, or $1.28 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 10 percent, to $4.85 billion, from $4.41 billion.
 Cigna was hurt by two businesses it no longer actively markets: a minimum-income benefits business and a death benefits business, which involve annuities. In both businesses, the company said its liabilities increased in periods of declining equity markets and interest rates.
 Cigna also said it might have to contribute to its pension plan based on funding requirements. Aetna said on Wednesday that pension expenses would weigh on results next year.
 Stock in Cigna, which is based in Philadelphia, fell $4.27, or 22 percent, to $15.58 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (93%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (96%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (96%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1292 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Motorola to Cut Jobs and Delay Spinoff

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
Motorola said it would shed 3,000 jobs, or slightly less than 5 percent of its work force, and delay a planned spinoff of its mobile devices unit as it spends 2009 trying to develop smartphones that will excite the public. 
 The slow economy and waning interest in its lineup of cellphones will make the job even harder. Sanjay K. Jha, who took over as chief executive of the mobile devices business in August, warned investors on Thursday that a turnaround was more than a year away. 
 Motorola, once the market leader, finds itself behind other handset makers because it did not design smartphones, as Nokia, Samsung and Apple did. Motorola had the best-selling cellphone by 2006, the Razr, but lost its lead by churning out updated models. When that phone's popularity faded, Motorola had little to replace it.
 It will not have much in the pipeline until late next year, and it will begin selling its first touch screen phone in the United States, the Kraze ZN4, this fall.
 Mr. Jha said Motorola would make smartphones to compete with the various BlackBerry models made by Research in Motion and the iPhone by Apple.
 ''We have been too focused on bright shiny objects and not on the user experience,'' Mr. Jha said in a conference call with analysts after Motorola announced its third-quarter results. 
 He said he planned to have phones designed that used one of only two operating systems: the new Android by Google and Windows Mobile by Microsoft. Motorola hopes to introduce an Android-supported smartphone in time for the Christmas buying season in 2009. It also plans to announce other smartphones using Windows Mobile next fall.
 ''The reality is, there is no good fix here,'' he said. Mr. Jha was chief operations officer at Qualcomm, the maker of chips used in cellphones. He oversaw Qualcomm's research and development, including its Flarion unit, the maker of fourth-generation wireless technology that makes it easier and faster for users to surf the Web on their mobile phones.
 Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Ill., said it lost $397 million, or 18 cents a share, in the third quarter, compared with a profit of $60 million, or 3 cents a share, a year ago. Sales fell 15 percent, to $7.48 billion, from $8.81 billion a year ago. Net cash was $3.4 billion, compared with $3.6 billion in the second quarter.
 The mobile devices division was the hardest hit. Sales fell 31 percent, to $3.1 billion, from $4.5 billion a year ago. The division reported an operating loss of $840 million, compared with a loss of $248 million in the quarter a year ago. Mr. Jha said the division planned to cut $600 million next year, or about three-quarters of the overall $800 million in cuts planned companywide. 
 The company began the year with 66,000 employees, but according to government filings, 4,800 employees affiliated with Motorola were laid off in the first nine months of the year. 
 ''In the end, they still have to come up with well-designed phones,'' said Roger Entner, a communications analyst at Nielsen IAG. ''I think Sanjay is finally realizing what a mess the organization is in.''
 By choosing to use Android and Windows Mobile, Mr. Entner said it showed that Mr. Jha ''had zero faith'' in the proprietary operating system that Motorola used for some of its phones. He added that while Motorola was long known for its innovative hardware design, its software design was considered a laggard. 
 Windows Mobile, though, has often been blamed for not fostering innovative mobile devices. Mr. Jha conceded that the current iteration of the operating system ''could be better,'' but said he had seen previews of newer versions and was encouraged that they would be more consumer-friendly.
 Motorola plans to open an office in Silicon Valley to be near Google engineers and another in Seattle to work more closely with Microsoft. Motorola also makes set-top boxes and products used by businesses and law enforcement officials for scanning and fingerprinting, as well as data and video communications systems for public agencies like fire departments. It is the more profitable side of the business.
 Last spring, Motorola announced it would separate its mobile phone business from the rest of its operations in 2009. But the company has called off plans to do so next year, in part because of the weak economy.
 The company also said it lost $141 million in its Sigma Fund, an institutional money market fund, because of faltering investments in, among others companies, Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sanjay Jha, head of mobile devices at Motorola, said, ''The reality is, there is no good fix here.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); LAYOFFS (91%); SMARTPHONES (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); 4G WIRELESS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (65%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (64%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GOOGLE INC (54%); QUALCOMM INC (53%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: SANJAY K JHA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1293 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: A National Mobility Project

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Government spending is growing at an astounding pace. Congress and the president have thrown hundreds of billions into stimulus packages, domestic programs, military spending and other initiatives. Total federal spending is growing at a 13.8 percent annual rate.
 Has all this money done anything to actually stimulate private economic activity? Not that you'd notice. Consumption is cratering. The U.S. economy just experienced the sharpest real drop in consumer spending since 1974.
 The lesson here is that we have a right to be skeptical of so-called stimulus packages. The Federal Reserve can effectively stimulate the economy. There are certain automatic government programs, like unemployment insurance, which also do it. But the history of the past century suggests that politically designed, ad hoc stimulus packages rarely work. 
 Often they get the timing wrong; they come too late to do any real good. Often they get the pressure points wrong; the economy is simply too complicated for lawmakers to know where to apply the stimulus patch. Almost always, they get psychology wrong. When you give people a chunk of money in the midst of economic turmoil, they don't spend most of it. They save it. 
 Nevertheless, economists continue to propose new stimulus ideas with unshaken confidence and over the next six months, the government will almost certainly pass more gigantic programs. Republican economists are talking of plans larger than $100 billion, and Democratic ones are hatching plans in the $300 billion range. 
 Bad policy ideas are coming in profusion. There are plans to bail out automakers. There are plans to issue more rebate checks (even though the last ones didn't work). Barack Obama is proposing one-time tax credits for small businesses that are hiring. This is an ineffectual ploy that would shower federal money on those few firms that would be hiring anyway while doing nothing for companies in struggling sectors.
 These and other plans amount to an economic sugar rush. And yet the political climate being what it is, something big is going to pass.
 In times like these, the best a sensible leader can do is to take the short-term panic and channel it into a program that is good on its own merits even if it does nothing to stimulate the economy over the next year. That's why I'm hoping the next president takes the general resolve to spend gobs of money, and channels it into a National Mobility Project, a long-term investment in the country's infrastructure.
 Major highway projects take about 13 years from initiation to completion -- too long to counteract any recession. But at least they create a legacy that can improve the economic environment for decades to come. 
 A major infrastructure initiative would create jobs for the less-educated workers who have been hit hardest by the transition to an information economy. It would allow the U.S. to return to the fundamentals. There is a real danger that the U.S. is going to leap from one over-consuming era to another, from one finance-led bubble to another. Focusing on infrastructure would at least get us thinking about the real economy, asking hard questions about what will increase real productivity, helping people who are expanding companies rather than hedge funds.
 Moreover, an infrastructure resurgence is desperately needed. Americans now spend 3.5 billion hours a year stuck in traffic, a figure expected to double by 2020. The U.S. population is projected to increase by 50 percent over the next 42 years. American residential patterns have radically changed. Workplaces have decentralized. Commuting patterns are no longer radial, from suburban residences to central cities. Now they are complex weaves across broad megaregions. Yet the infrastructure system hasn't adapted.
 The smart thing to do is announce a short-term infrastructure initiative to accelerate all those repair projects that can be done within a few years. Then, begin a long-term National Mobility Project.
 Create a base-closings-like commission to organize federal priorities (Congress has forfeited its right to micromanage). Streamline the regulations that can now delay project approval by five years. Explore all the new ideas that are burgeoning in the transportation world -- congestion pricing, smart highways, rescue plans for shrinking Midwestern cities, new rail and airplane technologies. When you look into this sector, you see we are on the cusp of another transportation revolution.
 A mobility project would dovetail with the energy initiatives both presidential candidates have offered. It would benefit from broad political support from liberals and business groups alike. It would rebalance this economy, so there is more productive weight to go along with Wall Street wizardry.
 Smart investors are going to take advantage of the current panic to make money. A smart president could take advantage of it to build something that will last for decades and decades to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (79%); BAILOUTS (79%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RECESSION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); TAX LAW (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); SALES REBATES (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1294 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: In Ohio, McCain Is Everywhere Even if Joe the Plumber Isn't

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Virginia Beach.

DATELINE: MENTOR, Ohio 

 BODY:
In case anyone was wondering if Ohio was a combat zone for Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, consider that five days before the election the candidate took a 220-mile, six-stop, 12-hour bus tour across the northern breadth of the state. Along the way, he deployed his unofficial running mate, a disappearing and reappearing Joe the Plumber, to try to drive his points home.
 ''I know history,'' Mr. McCain shouted out at a cold rally on Thursday morning in Defiance, a place whose name summed up his mood. ''I know the last time anyone was elected president of the United States without carrying the state of Ohio was John F. Kennedy. My friends, we're going to carry Ohio, and we're going to win the presidency, and we need you out there working every single moment over the next five days.'' 
 By the end of the day, Mr. McCain was on a roll. ''I've been in a lot of campaigns, and I can feel momentum, and I can feel momentum in this room tonight!'' Mr. McCain hollered at a rally in the gym at Mentor High School, shortly before the crowd began a deafening chant of ''Joe the Plumber! Joe the Plumber! Joe the Plumber!''
 For all of Mr. McCain's Ohio hopes, the latest polls show that Senator Barack Obama has an edge in this perennial battleground, keeping the Republican ticket on an expensive offensive. Mr. Obama has more than 80 offices across the state, and tens of thousands of volunteers, and his campaign expects he will benefit because of the economic and mortgage crisis that has hit Ohio hard. 
 Still, Mr. McCain's advisers say their own polling shows the race much closer and predict that Mr. McCain will eke out a narrow triumph here. 
 ''We think we can win over a swath of conservative Democrats as well as independents and obviously Republicans,'' said the campaign's political director, Mike DuHaime.
 What Mr. DuHaime and Mr. McCain's other advisers leave unsaid is that without Ohio, Mr. McCain will most likely lose the election.
 So, as Sandusky goes, so goes the nation, or so the McCain campaign hopes. To help, Mr. McCain enlisted Joe the Plumber, otherwise known as Samuel J. Wurzelbacher of Holland, Ohio, the McCain campaign's embodiment of a small-business American everyman. But despite Mr. Wurzelbacher's newfound celebrity, he had something of a wobbly start on Thursday.
 ''Joe's with us today!'' Mr. McCain called out at the rally at Defiance Junior High School. ''Joe, where are you? Where is Joe? Is Joe here with us today?''
 Nothing.
 ''Joe, I thought you were here today,'' Mr. McCain continued, with dimmed enthusiasm.
 Still nothing. The crowd murmured.
 ''All right,'' Mr. McCain said, realizing that Joe was nowhere to be found. ''Well, you're all Joe the Plumbers!''
 It turned out that Mr. Wurzelbacher, as he told CNN, had never received final confirmation from the McCain campaign that he was expected. The campaign, after watching Mr. McCain haplessly call out for Mr. Wurzelbacher on the cable networks, dispatched a car and rushed the plumber to Mr. McCain's next event, in Sandusky, where Mr. Wurzelbacher spoke.
 ''All right guys, I didn't prepare anything,'' Mr. Wurzelbacher said at a rally at the Washington Park gazebo in Sandusky. ''The only thing I've been saying is just get out and get informed. I mean, really know what you're talking about when you're talking about it. Don't take everyone's opinions. I came to my own opinions by research. Get involved in the government. That way we can hold our politicians accountable and take back our government. It's all ours.''
 Mr. Wurzelbacher is the man Mr. Obama encountered in Holland on Oct. 12 and told him in response to a question about the flat tax that he wanted to ''spread the wealth around.'' The McCain campaign seized on the remarks and has been trying to portray Mr. Obama as a socialist.
 Mr. McCain's Ohio bus tour took him from west to east, from Defiance to Youngstown, across solid Republican areas and then into ''Reagan Democrat'' counties where Mr. McCain wants to appeal to working-class and conservative Democrats. He will spend another full day here on Friday. 
 Mr. Obama, who has traveled extensively across the state, will be here again on Sunday.
 Ohioans have come to expect no less. ''This year some other states are trying to supplant our role as the decider,'' said John C. Green, a political scientist and pollster who is director of the Bliss Institute at the University of Akron. ''And I have to say, a lot of Ohioans are getting pretty irritated by that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain speaking Thursday in Defiance, Ohio. ''I know history,'' Mr. McCain said as he predicted victory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); CREDIT CRISIS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1295 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: We're All Bankers Now. So Why's the A.T.M. Still Charging Us $2?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail:haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
According to our math, not the most reliable of guides, each taxpayer in this country has a $1,785.71 ownership share in the banks of America.
 This figure is based on the $250 billion that the Treasury Department is investing in banks to prod them to start lending again. We divided $250 billion by 140 million, which the Internal Revenue Service says is the number of individual tax returns filed last year. By our count, that gives every taxpayer a $1,785.71 stake in JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and the rest.
 (In that 140 million, we are not including Charles J. O'Byrne, who resigned under fire as Gov. David A. Paterson's top lieutenant. We can't be sure that Mr. O'Byrne has fully recovered from what his lawyer calls late-filing syndrome when it comes to his taxes. Also excluded is Joe the Publicity-Hungry Unlicensed Plumber. Public records have shown that Joe suffers from Sticky Fingers Syndrome in paying all that he owes.) 
 Far be it for us to tell Henry M. Paulson Jr., the treasury secretary, or Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, how to manage $250 billion. They're the brains. And they're doing a heck of a job. Thanks to all that brilliance in Washington and on Wall Street, the rest of us now know how to make a small fortune: by investing a large fortune.
 But as shareholders, we have thoughts on aspects of banking that seem beyond the scope of Messrs. Paulson and Bernanke. Call them small-bore issues. But they affect ordinary people every day.
 Let's start with something really easy. Is it too much to ask that all banks have pens that work on the counters with the deposit and withdrawal slips? In too many places, the pens are useless. How can people feel confident that their money is being managed wisely if those in charge can't even provide a functioning pen?
 As shareholders, we were going to suggest that the top executives of the banks forgo end-of-year bonuses, but Andrew M. Cuomo, New York's attorney general, was ahead of us. He sent a letter on Wednesday to nine big financial institutions asking for information about their plans in this regard. It doesn't guarantee that mega-bonuses are finished. But, really, why should we give a dime to executives who had to come to us hat in hand? Better to give an extra buck or two to the guy in the subway with an outstretched plastic cup.
 How about a moratorium on new bank branches in New York neighborhoods? The tanking economy will probably take care of that anyway. But an ironclad agreement by the banks to halt further expansion would delight New Yorkers. Many are infuriated as they watch cherished local stores die and give way to impersonal bank outlets, often located within yards of one another. Enough is enough.
 Why not forbid any bank receiving taxpayer money to purchase naming rights to sports stadiums and arenas? Citigroup is handing the Mets something like $20 million a year to call their new stadium Citi Field. Surely, the Mets do not need Citigroup's money -- not to mention yours -- to keep failing to make the playoffs.
 Might we end the procedure by which banks stiff you when you deposit a large check? Often, you are initially credited with only part of the deposit, and must wait a few days to gain access to the rest. Meanwhile, the bank is using the withheld portion to pick up a few bucks for itself. Check-clearance times have been speeded up in recent years. But why shouldn't depositors be able to get at their money immediately, all of it?
 For that matter, why must bank customers pay several times to retrieve cash at an A.T.M. (known to some as short for Always Taking Money)? If you use an A.T.M. at a bank other than your own, that bank usually charges you a fee. Fair enough. But your own bank also charges you for the same transaction. So you pay twice for the privilege -- no, make that the right -- to withdraw your own money. How is that?
 As long as we have $1,785.71 at stake, can't we ask that banks have recognizable names?
 A few years ago, something called Sovereign Bank began popping up all over town. We'd never heard of Sovereign. Now, just as we've been getting used to the name, we learn that Sovereign has had it. 
 A full-page advertisement in Thursday's paper announced that Sovereign had been taken over by a company called Santander. What in the name of the Bailey Savings and Loan is Santander?
 Turns out that the full name is Banco Santander, based in Spain. Want to bet that Santander left out ''banco,'' except in very small type at the bottom of the ad, so that few would see right away that another piece of America had been acquired by a foreign institution.
 Sovereign, we hardly knew ye. But at least you didn't go by a dopey moniker like WaMu. That's what Washington Mutual called itself before it, too, flopped. The name WaMu will soon be gone, whammo!
 Here's hoping the same doesn't happen to our $1,785.71.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%); BEN BERNANKE (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%); DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1296 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Growing Doubts on Palin Take a Toll, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and DALIA SUSSMAN; Marjorie Connelly, Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A growing number of voters have concluded that Senator John McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, is not qualified to be vice president, weighing down the Republican ticket in the last days of the campaign, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. 
 All told, 59 percent of voters surveyed said Ms. Palin was not prepared for the job, up nine percentage points since the beginning of the month. Nearly a third of voters polled said the vice-presidential selection would be a major factor influencing their vote for president, and those voters broadly favor Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee.
 And in a possible indication that the choice of Ms. Palin has hurt Mr. McCain's image, voters said they had much more confidence in Mr. Obama to pick qualified people for his administration than they did in Mr. McCain. 
 After nearly two years of campaigning, a pair of hotly contested nominating battles, a series of debates and an avalanche of advertisements, the nationwide poll found the contours of the race hardening in the last days before the election on Tuesday. Twelve percent of the voters surveyed said they had already voted. These were among the findings: 
 Mr. Obama is maintaining his lead, with 51 percent of likely voters supporting him and 40 percent supporting Mr. McCain in a head-to-head matchup.
 Some perceptions of race are changing, with a marked increase in the number of people who say they believe that white and black people have an equal chance of getting ahead in America today.
 Mr. McCain's focus on taxes, including his talk about Joe the Plumber, seems to be having some effect, as a growing number of voters now say Mr. McCain would not raise their taxes.
 Eighty-nine percent of people view the economy negatively, and 85 percent think the country is on the wrong track.
 Mr. Obama continues to have a significant advantage on key issues like the economy, health care and the war in Iraq.
 The survey found that opinions of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain had hardened considerably, as 9 out of 10 voters who said they had settled on a candidate said their minds were made up, and a growing number of them called it ''extremely important'' that their candidate win the election. Roughly half of each candidate's supporters said they were ''scared'' of what the other candidate would do if elected. Just 4 percent of voters were undecided, and when they were pressed to say whom they leaned toward, the shape of the race remained essentially the same. 
 Bolstered by the fiscal crisis and deep concerns about the direction of the country, Mr. Obama has seemed to solidify the support he has gained in recent months. When likely voters were asked whom they would vote for in an expanded field that included several third-party candidates, Mr. Obama got the support of 52 percent of them, Mr. McCain 39 percent, Bob Barr 1 percent, and Ralph Nader 2 percent.
 The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Saturday through Wednesday with 1,439 adults nationwide, including 1,308 registered voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
 The poll was conducted as a wide range of state polls have shown Mr. Obama, of Illinois, ahead or tied in several crucial contested states, including some traditionally Republican states that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, must carry to win the election.
 The survey suggested that Mr. Obama's candidacy -- if elected, he would be the first black president -- has changed some perceptions of race in America. Nearly two-thirds of those polled said whites and blacks have an equal chance of getting ahead in today's society, up from the half who said they thought so in July. And while 14 percent still said most people they knew would not vote for a black presidential candidate, the number has dropped considerably since the campaign began. 
 Mr. McCain's heavy focus on taxes in the final weeks of the campaign seems to be having some effect, the poll found. Forty-seven percent of voters said Mr. McCain would not raise taxes on people like them, up from just 38 percent who said so two weeks ago. (And 50 percent said they thought Mr. Obama would raise taxes on people like them, while 44 percent said he would not; both numbers are similar to two weeks ago.) 
 With just days until Americans choose a new president, the survey found them deeply uneasy about the state of their country. Eight-five percent of respondents said the country was pretty seriously off on the wrong track, near the record high recorded earlier this month. A majority said the United States should have stayed out of Iraq. And President Bush's approval rating remains at 22 percent, tied for the lowest presidential approval rating on record (which was President Harry S. Truman's rating, recorded by the Gallup Poll in 1952). 
 Mr. McCain's renewed efforts to cast himself as the candidate of change have apparently faltered. Sixty-four percent of voters polled said Mr. Obama would bring about real change if elected, while only 39 percent said Mr. McCain would. And despite Mr. McCain's increased efforts to distance himself from President Bush, a majority still said he would generally continue Mr. Bush's policies.
 Dixie Cromwell, a 36-year-old cosmetologist from Shelby, N.C., who is a Republican, said in a follow-up interview that she had already voted for Mr. Obama. 
 ''I generally vote Republican, but this year I voted Democrat,'' she said. ''I just don't feel we can go through any more of the same old thing that we've been going through with the Republican Party.''
 Mr. Obama's policies were seen as much more likely to improve the economy, provide health insurance to more people, and scale back military involvement in Iraq than Mr. McCain's were. But Mr. McCain enjoyed an advantage when it came to questions about which candidate would make a better commander in chief: 47 percent of voters said Mr. McCain was very likely to be an effective commander in chief, compared with 33 percent who said Mr. Obama would be. 
 While a majority viewed Ms. Palin as unqualified for the vice presidency, roughly three-quarters of voters saw Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, as qualified for the job. The increase in the number of voters who said Ms. Palin was not prepared was driven almost entirely by Republicans and independents. 
 Over all, views of Ms. Palin were apparently shaped more by ideology and party than by gender. Ms. Palin was viewed as unprepared for the job by about 6 in 10 men and women alike. But 8 in 10 Democrats viewed her as unprepared, as well as more than 6 in 10 independents and 3 in 10 Republicans. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gov. Sarah Palin, campaigning Thursday in Cape Girardeau, Mo., as poll numbers flagged.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITNEY CURTIS/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A18) CHART: Hardening Views: In July, voters were asked how important it was to them that their candidate won the 2008 election for president. They were asked again over the past week. Shows pie-charts for each candidate.
 Voters on the Issues: How registered voters view how each candidate would handle certain issues if elected president. Based on nationwide telephone interviews the latest of which was conducted Oct. 25-29 with 1,308 registered voters. Various issue-related polls.(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (72%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1297 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Economy Shrinks With Consumers Leading the Way

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Floyd Norris and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Less than a week before Americans go to the polls to select a president, the government reported on Thursday that the economy contracted from July through September. In a stark indication of widening national distress, consumer spending dipped for the first time in 17 years.
 Economists said the drop in economic activity -- with the gross domestic product shrinking at a 0.3 percent annual rate -- presages more bad news in the months ahead. The impacts of a now-global financial crisis are continuing to squeeze companies and impede investment, causing more layoffs and austerity, while prompting Congress to consider a fresh round of spending aimed at stimulating commerce.
 ''The economy has taken a turn for the worse, big time,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist for Decision Economics, a consulting and forecasting group. ''Consumption literally caved in. It is a prelude to much worse news on the economy over the next couple of quarters. The fundamentals around the consumer are all negative, and there are no signs of any help anytime soon, from anywhere.''
 With the economy the dominant issue in the presidential election, the latest batch of dismal data offered no comfort to the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has been running behind the Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, in polls. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Obama seized on the latest evidence of the backsliding economy to warn that Mr. McCain would deliver more of the same. 
 ''Our falling G.D.P. is a direct result of eight years of the trickle-down, Wall Street-first, Main Street-last policies that have driven our economy into a ditch,'' Mr. Obama said while campaigning in Florida. ''If you want to know where Senator McCain will drive this economy, just look in the rearview mirror. Because, when it comes to our economic policies, John McCain has stood with President Bush every step of the way.''
 Mr. McCain's campaign asserted that Mr. Obama's efforts to increase taxes on wealthy Americans would deepen economic troubles. 
 ''Obama's ideologically driven plans to redistribute income will impose higher taxes on families, small businesses and investors,'' Mr. McCain's chief economic adviser, Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, said in a statement distributed to reporters.
 Economic downturns have proved unkind to the incumbent party in elections. Many analysts argue that the recession of 1990 and 1991 cost President George H. W. Bush a chance at re-election in 1992. President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, lost his 1980 re-election bid to Ronald Reagan after a particularly nasty recession earlier that year. In 1960, in the midst of a recession, John F. Kennedy, a Democrat, defeated Richard M. Nixon, who had been vice president in the Eisenhower administration.
 Not since 1900, when William McKinley, a Republican, won re-election, has the incumbent party retained the White House in the midst of a recession or within a few months after one.
 In a statement Thursday morning, the White House acknowledged the weakening of the economy, while pinning the blame on a series of unusual events and arguing that the $700 billion bailout of the financial system would soon deliver relief.
 ''Today's G.D.P. report is weak, but it is not unexpected,'' said a White House spokeswoman, Dana M. Perino. ''A number of things contributed to the slowing economy in the third quarter -- record high energy prices, housing and credit concerns, two major hurricanes and a prolonged Boeing strike. The president is taking forceful actions to return the economy to growth and job creation by early next year.''
 Whoever captures the White House seems certain to inherit a starkly challenging economic picture. The economy began slipping in the last three months of 2007, dipping at a 0.2 percent annual rate. Then it grew modestly for six months, aided by tax rebate checks, but has since succumbed anew to slowdown.
 Consumer spending -- which makes up more than 70 percent of American economic activity -- dipped at a 3.1 percent annual rate between July and September, after growing at a 1.2 percent annual rate in the previous three months.
 That was the largest three-month drop since the second quarter of 1980, a contraction that was in some sense artificial: the Carter administration, seeking to suffocate inflation, imposed limits on bank borrowing. Putting that episode aside, this year's drop represents the sharpest decline in consumer spending since the end of 1974.
 Economists saw in the data a testament to the degree to which many households are so strapped that the very culture of American consumption has been altered.
 After years of pulling winnings from soaring stock markets, borrowing against the appreciating value of homes and leaning on abundant credit cards, Americans are finding those arteries of finance sharply constricted. 
 ''The American consumer is finally hitting a wall that simply hasn't been there for 17 years,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''What you see here is just a confluence of negative events closing every avenue that consumers have tapped over the years. There's only a couple of ways that consumers can finance their spending. It's labor income or nonlabor income, and both are on the mat.''
 The economy has shed 760,000 jobs since the beginning of the year, with layoffs accelerating in recent months. Many companies have cut the hours of workers on the payroll, further diminishing paychecks.
 Housing prices have continued to plunge, removing home loans as a channel for finance. Banks still reckoning with disastrous investments on real estate have cut credit even to people with relatively decent histories.
 This month, consumer confidence, a broadly watched gauge of American sentiment in use since 1967, plunged to its lowest level on record, attesting to the new psychology of worry and scrimping that now holds sway.
 Tucked into the data released Thursday was a worrying sign of a new, potentially pernicious phase of the downturn. Investment by businesses for things like machinery, trucks, computers and software slipped by 1 percent in the third quarter. If past downturns are a guide, that dip could swiftly accelerate, as companies recognize diminishing business opportunities and forgo purchases. 
 In the last recession, in 2001, this type of outlay, capital spending, slipped at a 14 percent annual rate in the worst quarter. 
 ''When business decides it's time to cut back, it happens quickly,'' Mr. Sinai said. ''They say: 'We're not hiring, so why do we have to buy equipment if we don't have additional workers? Why do we have to replace equipment?' ''
 As orders dry up, layoffs accelerate, further diminishing spending power and further reducing business in a downward spiral. 
 This is the thinking behind forecasts that now broadly assume the unemployment rate could jump from the current 6.1 percent to beyond 8 percent by the middle of next year, a level last seen a quarter-century ago. 
 This is the image that has many analysts assuming that the next six months will bring more pronounced contraction, as the downturn deepens into the most painful recession since the early 1980s, and perhaps even the 1970s, when the oil shocks assailed the nation.
 ''We are now entering the harshest part of the recession,'' Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for the research group, IHS Global Insight, declared in a note to clients.
 One bright spot throughout the downturn has been American exports, which continued to advance in the thirdquarter, expanding at a 5.9 percent annual rate. But that was down sharply from the 12.3 percent clip seen from April to June. 
 Most economists think a continued slowdown in exports is inevitable as much of the globe follows the United States into disarray. The financial crisis born in the United States has spread to Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Many countries that have been major buyers of American-made goods are now suffering.
 ''How are you going to export into that world?'' asked Barry P. Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
 Another continued source of economic growth is government spending, which expanded at a 5.8 percent annual pace in the third quarter. Military spending surged at an 18.1 percent annual rate, and federal spending over all jumped at a 13.8 percent annual clip.
 ''There's a message in that,'' said Mr. Bernstein, the Economic Policy Institute economist, who has urged Congress to create another package of government spending measures to stimulate the economy. ''The one part of the G.D.P. we can reliably count on in these times is government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Newark job fair sponsored by Monster.com, the help-wanted Web site, was thronged on Thursday. Many expect unemployment to pass 8 percent by mid-2009.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A23) CHART: An Economic Omen: Downturns in spending by consumers and corporations are usually associated with a recession. In the third quarter of this year, consumer spending fell further than it has since 1980, a sign that worse economic news could be on the horizon.(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)
 Rare Decline: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar and line graphs. (pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); TAX INCREASES (66%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1298 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Hitting the Backroads, And Having Less to Say

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, played before a couple of thousand people at a minor-league ballpark in Florida. On Thursday, Mr. Biden drew fewer than 1,000 in a college gymnasium in this Pennsylvania city, home to the Little League World Series.
 That is not to say that the man who has taken to calling himself Joe the Biden is strictly small-time. He appeared Wednesday night before an estimated 20,000 people at the BankAtlantic Center in Sunrise, Fla. (However, he was the undercard for a guy named Obama.) 
 With the political world fixated on the Barack Obama phenomenon and the Sarah Palin curiosity, Mr. Biden is flying low, speaking at smaller locations and in out-of-the-way towns in battleground states. While he avoids the national news media, fearing a major gaffe, he has done an estimated 200 interviews with local television and radio stations and regularly appears on the front pages of newspapers in places like Williamsport; Greenville, N.C.; and Danville, Va.
 The Biden operation feels more like an early primary enterprise than a campaign in the final week of an intensely contested presidential race. His traveling entourage is relatively small. And the crowds at his rallies -- lately numbering in the low thousands, rather than the low hundreds seen earlier this fall -- are dwarfed by those who come out for Senator Obama, of Illinois; Senator John McCain of Arizona; and Governor Palin, of Alaska.
 Yet at the Biden rallies, there is a genuine enthusiasm among the people, who sense the historic nature of the race and for whom a speech by Mr. Biden is as close as they will get this year to seeing a national candidate. 
 Many at the Biden stops know only the outlines of his biography, but they all know that he has spent much of his life in the Senate, is a foreign-policy expert and is not Ms. Palin, his counterpart on the Republican ticket. They tend to be quite a bit older than the people who show up at Obama events, and, naturally, they are partisans.
 An unscientific sample of Florida voters was given a short word-association test this week. 
 Joe Biden?
 ''Change,'' said Patrice Kelly, 55, a commercial photographer from Jupiter.
 ''Good guy,'' said Walt Huston, 57, an unemployed former furniture-store manager from Ocala.
 ''He speaks his mind,'' said Zonnie Woods, 64, a retired teacher from McIntosh. ''I love him, O.K.?''
 Dave Bowden, 65, of Leesburg, a publisher of training manuals for music teachers, said, ''Honest.'' As for the Alaska governor, Mr. Bowden said, ''I think she's gorgeous but, bless her heart, she's not ready to be president of the United States.''
 Somewhat Silenced
 On the trail this fall, Mr. Biden has curbed his noted volubility -- or, rather, had it curbed for him by his masters at Obama headquarters, in Chicago. He never goes to the press section of his campaign plane to talk to the reporters who accompany him, he has not held a news conference since early September and he does not take questions from his audiences (not since he told one person that he thought Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York would have been a better choice for vice president). Then again, Mr. Biden's assignment does not include outreach to the national news media. 
 Still, Mr. Biden has not been fully silenced, leading even Mr. Obama to chide him for what Mr. Obama referred to diplomatically as ''rhetorical flourishes.'' Some Biden musings last week about Mr. Obama most likely being tested by a hostile power in his early months in office were turned into an attack advertisement by the McCain campaign and a spoof on ''Saturday Night Live.''
 These days, Mr. Biden races through his thoroughly vetted stump speech, sometimes delivering it in as few as 15 minutes -- a mere throat-clearing for the old Joe Biden. He reads from a teleprompter, altering the text only slightly to mention the place where he is speaking and the local dignitaries who are present. (Mr. Biden will also occasionally slip in a geographically appropriate pander. ''How 'bout them Phillies?'' he said in Williamsport of the team that won the World Series. And on Wednesday in South Florida, he mentioned his longtime support for Israel.)
 Connecting With Voters
 A national poll from the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press released last week found that 60 percent of respondents viewed Mr. Biden favorably, while 44 percent had a similar view of Ms. Palin.
 Surveys indicate that he is well regarded in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, states where he has been spending a large share of his time and where his task is to attract blue-collar workers, Roman Catholics and older people.
 Because of the lighter security cordon around him, Mr. Biden can connect with voters in a more visceral way than Mr. Obama. Last week, at an ice-cream shop in Charleston, W.Va., he spoke in a whisper for five minutes with Sara Beal, a young woman who had suffered a ruptured brain aneurysm like the one that almost killed him 20 years ago. 
 During a stop on Tuesday in Titusville, Fla., he met a 1-year-old named Hunter. That happens to be the name of Mr. Biden's younger son, who is traveling with the campaign this week. 
 Mr. Biden fetched Hunter Biden, 38, from the motorcade and introduced him to the toddler. ''Hey Hunter,'' the senator said. ''Meet Hunter.''
 And the old man, bless his heart, was beaming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph R. Biden Jr., on Thursday in Williamsport, Pa., has been visiting out-of-the-way places and reining in his talkativeness.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MUSIC (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DANVILLE, VA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1299 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: McCain and Obama Advisers Briefed on Deteriorating Afghan War

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and ERIC SCHMITT; Thom Shanker and Peter Baker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, senior Bush administration officials gathered in secret with Afghanistan experts from NATO and the United Nations at an exclusive Washington club a few blocks from the White House. The group was there to deliver a grim message: the situation in Afghanistan is getting worse. 
 Their audience: advisers from the presidential campaigns of John McCain and Barack Obama. 
 Over two days, according to participants in the discussions, the experts laid bare Afghanistan's most pressing issues. They sought to make clear that the next president needed to have a plan for Afghanistan before he took office on Jan. 20. Otherwise, they said, it could be too late. 
 With American casualties on the rise and Taliban militias gaining new strength, experts on Afghanistan say the next president will need to decide swiftly if he intends to send more troops there, because even after deployment orders are issued, it could take weeks or months for American forces to arrive.
 The next president will also face what could be politically fraught decisions about how aggressively to pursue a campaign against militants taking shelter in Pakistan's tribal areas and whether to embrace negotiations under way in Afghanistan aimed at getting elements of the Taliban to lay down their arms. The discussions were started earlier this month in Saudi Arabia, and talks among Afghan officials and Taliban representatives have continued in Kabul at the request of President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. 
 The Bush administration has been wary of these talks, on the grounds that they could involve fighters who have killed American troops, and in the belief that senior Taliban leaders have no interest in serious negotiations. But some senior American officials, including William B. Wood, the American ambassador in Kabul, are said to have pressed the White House to at least consider flexibility in its position. 
 The briefing on Afghanistan appears to have been the most extensive that Bush administration officials have provided on any issue to both presidential campaigns. It was organized by Barnett R. Rubin, an Afghanistan expert and a professor at New York University, and included John K. Wood, the senior Afghanistan director at the National Security Council; Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, a former American commander in Afghanistan who is now at NATO headquarters; and Kai Eide, the United Nations representative in Afghanistan, according to some participants.
 ''The intent was to ensure that everyone understand that the situation is very fast-moving, and if the new administration spends three months trying to figure out what to do, it's too late,'' said one administration official who participated in the discussion. 
 The Obama campaign sent Jonah Blank, a foreign policy specialist for Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., and Craig Mullaney, another Afghanistan adviser for Mr. Obama, participants said. They said the McCain campaign was represented by Lisa Curtis and Kori Schake, two former State Department officials. 
 The sessions were unclassified, but the participants agreed not to discuss their briefings or the contents of their discussions publicly. 
 The briefing was part of an effort by the departing Bush administration to ease the transition to the next team in a time of war and economic dislocation and allowed officials to try to have some influence over the next administration's plans. 
 Both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain have promised to increase the number of American troops in Afghanistan. Many in Washington are awaiting the results of a review to be led by Gen. David H. Petraeus, who takes over command of all United States forces in Iraq and Afghanistan at Central Command on Friday. 
 American intelligence officials believe that Taliban commanders are convinced that they are winning. Not only are they establishing themselves in larger swaths of the country, but their campaign of violence is shaking the will of European countries contributing troops to the NATO mission. 
 General Petraeus's review will ultimately make recommendations about whether additional troops are needed in Afghanistan and, if so, how many. Gen. David D. McKiernan, the top American commander in Afghanistan, has requested three additional brigade combat teams for the mission, above the one extra Army brigade and one Marine Corps battalion already approved by President Bush.
 General McKiernan's request, if approved, would be expected to add more than 15,000 combat and support troops to the mission, beyond the 8,000 or so scheduled to arrive in January under the orders issued by Mr. Bush. 
 American commanders have also spoken of the importance of better engaging Afghan tribes as a weapon against Taliban encroachment. Some have suggested using the model of the ''tribal awakening'' that occurred in Iraq, when the American military teamed with some former Sunni insurgents to try to drive out Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. 
 But General McKiernan has cited significant differences in the history and culture of Afghanistan, as well as a greater complexity in the Afghan tribal system, as reasons why the Iraqi model does not directly apply in Afghanistan. Of the more than 400 major tribal networks inside Afghanistan, the general said recently, most have been ''traumatized by over 30 years of war, so a lot of that traditional tribal structure has broken down.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan elders in the Korengal Valley met on Thursday with military officials from Afghanistan and the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1300 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: After Term Limits Vote, Mayor Finds a Less Compliant Council

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Tensions between City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn and aides to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are erupting just a week after Ms. Quinn shepherded the mayor's divisive legislation to loosen the city's term limits law through the Council.
 Feelings are raw between the two sides largely because Ms. Quinn took heavy political shrapnel for the mayor during the term limits battle as she rounded up support for what became an unusually difficult vote.
 The strains at City Hall could stymie the Bloomberg administration's agenda in the middle of the deepest financial crisis to strike New York City in decades.
 In closed-door meetings over the last few days that occasionally escalated into shouting, Ms. Quinn has told the mayor's aides to back off a plan that would change how hundreds of programs for the elderly are financed, a proposal that has infuriated several council members. 
 According to people briefed on the conversations, she has warned that the mayor's plan to push for a property tax increase as early as next week could encounter resistance, especially since council members are still reeling from the term limits vote.
 The tensions reveal the degree to which the bruising term limits battle, initiated by the mayor so that he can run for a third term, altered the political landscape, with Ms. Quinn and her colleagues feeling empowered to challenge the Bloomberg administration as never before.
 ''There is a sense that the mayor has damaged his popularity and that is emboldening members,'' said David Yassky, a councilman from Brooklyn who supported the mayor's term limits extension.
 To calm nerves, Mr. Bloomberg, in a step that is unusual for him, has begun to personally call every council member, telling them they must find ways to work together even if they disagreed over term limits. But some of those calls are not going very well, as council members say the mayor expressed fleeting gratitude for their support before launching into lectures about taxes.
 ''I thought that the phone call was going to be simply and purely, 'Thanks for casting a tough vote,' '' said Councilman Lewis Fidler of Brooklyn, who voted to change the term limits. ''I didn't expect him to talk about the next tough vote.''
 Charles Barron, another council member from Brooklyn who was an outspoken opponent of the term limits change, ended his telephone conversation with the mayor by vowing ''to meet you on the battlefield'' over the measure, which is now the subject of legal wrangling. 
 In discussions with senior administration officials, Ms. Quinn pointedly described a new political reality following the difficult term limits fight, which drew unusual attention and almost daily criticism of the Council. Members are reluctant to quickly tackle another contentious issue, council members and administration officials said.
 Next week, the mayor is expected to rescind, six months early, a 7 percent property tax cut and lay out a 5 percent annual cut in spending for city agencies, according to city officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plans are not yet public. 
 Both measures require the support of council members, and Ms. Quinn has already embraced Mr. Bloomberg's call for swift action on the budget.
 A Bloomberg spokesman, Stu Loeser, said the administration was aware of the frayed feelings and, in response, began to brief Ms. Quinn and her staff on Mr. Bloomberg's budget cuts and tax plans unusually early in the process. Traditionally, the administration tells the speaker about its plans a day or two before they become public. This time, it gave her nearly two weeks' warning. 
 ''We are working with the Council on both the seniors and the budget to give them as much planning time and advance notice as possible,'' Mr. Loeser said.
 But the administration's actions have inflamed Ms. Quinn and her colleagues. Several days ago, the speaker learned that the Bloomberg administration would resume a push to bring corporate-style accountability measures to the city's network of programs for the elderly, to improve services and increase the number of people using them. Council members are especially outraged by the mayor's plan to centralize up to $20 million in financing for senior centers across the city. The council members say that would minimize their influence over the process.
 Two lawmakers who voted for Mr. Bloomberg's term limits legislation, James Vacca and Maria del Carmen Arroyo, both of the Bronx, immediately expressed their anger over the plans for the seniors programs to Ms. Quinn. Mr. Vacca said that early this week, he told the speaker's staff members that ''if we don't fight this, the Council will be the emperor with no clothes.''
 ''I walked right down the hall to the speaker's office, and within minutes, I talked to her, and she was upset,'' he said.
 Ms. Quinn went on the offensive. In a heated meeting on Tuesday, she scolded Linda Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services, for what Ms. Quinn described as an ill-timed, politically sensitive measure, according to people briefed on the meeting. 
 Ms. Quinn told Ms. Gibbs that she should at the least delay the plan, which would change the way service centers for the elderly seek money from the City Council and the city's five borough presidents. In the past, the centers have relied on those elected officials to dole out millions of dollars a year in discretionary funds. 
 In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Quinn said, ''I have come to believe this is not the right time for this restructuring,'' citing the economic turmoil, which could make the centers even more crucial to city residents. 
 Ms. Quinn said she had not been given the assurances she needs from the Bloomberg administration that senior centers would not lose financing -- or close -- under the overhaul now under consideration. 
 Asked about her tense meeting with Ms. Quinn, Ms. Gibbs said that the speaker ''feels comfortable speaking frankly with me.''
 Before the term limits vote, Ms. Quinn and her colleagues had sought to postpone the new restrictions, and had assumed that the Bloomberg administration would hold off for many months. Instead, the administration indicated almost immediately after the vote that it wanted to overhaul the system of services for the elderly by July 1. ''We did the issue of term limits, so what's the rush now?'' Ms. Arroyo said.
 Mr. Vacca, whose district in the Bronx has a dozen senior centers, said that ''this is the wrong time and the wrong reform.''
 ''I should say 'supposed' reform,'' he added, ''because I can't call it that. It will force many centers to close.'' 
 On Thursday, in response to the concerns, administration officials said the city might postpone the changes. 
 ''I think there are a lot of questions about what's the best process and best timing and whether doing everything at once makes the best sense,'' Ms. Gibbs said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Speaker Christine C. Quinn joined forces on a measure that allows the mayor to run again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Speaker Christine C. Quinn has told Bloomberg aides to back off a plan to alter how programs for the elderly are financed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1301 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2281 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 31, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 SOUTH AFRICAN PARTY GIVES BIRTH
 To Its Own Political Rival
 South Africa's 14 years as a democracy have been guided by the African National Congress, the party that unshackled the nation from apartheid and then reassured it with the grandfatherly mien of Nelson Mandela. But a major split in the party -- set in motion by its national executive committee's recent decision to oust President Thabo Mbeki, Mr. Mandela's successor, before his term expired -- seems to be in the works. PAGE A6
 DELAY POSSIBLE FOR BEATIFICATION
 Pope Benedict XVI told Jewish leaders that he was ''seriously considering'' delaying the beatification of Pope Pius XII, the pope from 1939 to 1958, until the archives of Pius's papacy have been opened to scholars. The remarks came after weeks of controversy over the sainthood of Pius. Jewish leaders have said he did not do enough to stop the deportation of Jews during the Holocaust. PAGE A13 
 LOSING FAITH IN A LEADER
 President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea swept into office in February promising to use his business acumen as a former construction company executive to revive the nation's economy. Instead, he stumbled from the start, and now finds himself fighting to regain credibility as South Korea careens toward a recession. On Thursday, the United States Federal Reserve agreed to open credit lines worth up to $30 billion to South Korea. PAGE A9
 IRAQ MINISTER REQUIRES NEUTRALITY
 Iraq's defense minister announced that all employees of the ministry, from the highest officials to the lowliest soldiers, would be required to remain politically neutral. Officials in the ministry will be required to sign pledges stating that they will not run for political office, work on political campaigns, attend political demonstrations or join any political organizations. PAGE A10
 FAREWELL TO A BERLIN AIRPORT
 Tempelhof Airport, built by the Nazis but best known as the site of the Berlin airlift of 1948 and 1949, closed after a legal battle that went on for several years. Those who wanted it closed called it an unprofitable drain on the city's budget. Supporters saw it as an architectural masterpiece and a historic monument to freedom. PAGE A6
 HUSBANDS FOR HAMAS WIDOWS
 They are matches made, if not in heaven, at least in some measure of peace. With Hamas, the militant Islamist group, observing a truce with Israel, its underground fighters have little to do. Hundreds of the group's women, meanwhile, are widows from one bit of violence or another. So Hamas leaders have turned to matchmaking, bringing together single fighters and widows. PAGE A8
 Negotiations on Tibet Resume A9
 Some Calm in Congolese City A12
 national
 WASHINGTON STATE TO VOTE
 On Controversial Suicide Law
 In the 11 years since Oregon became the first state to allow physician-assisted suicide, even some of the law's strongest opponents say their worst fears have not been realized. And yet, since the law was enacted, no other state has followed its lead. That is until now, as Washington is to decide whether to adopt its own assisted-suicide law, which would allow terminally ill adults to receive a doctor's prescription for a lethal dose of medication upon request. PAGE A14
 FIRST OVERSEAS TORTURE CONVICTION 
 A federal jury convicted Charles McArthur Emmanuel, the son of the former president of Liberia, of torturing suspected opponents of his father's government. It was the first case brought under a 1994 law that makes it a crime for United States citizens to commit torture overseas. He faces a possible life sentence. PAGE A16
 COMBINED THERAPIES AID CHILDREN
 Children and adolescents with disabling anxiety are most likely to recover when treated with a combination of talk therapy and an antidepressant, according to the largest study of anxiety disorders in this age group. The study clarifies the treatment picture for these young patients and should increase interest in combined therapy, experts said. PAGE A15
 ARREST MADE IN IOWA PLANT CASE
 Federal immigration agents arrested the former chief executive of Agriprocessors, the nation's biggest kosher meatpacking company, accusing him of harboring illegal immigrants at a plant in Postville, Iowa, where about 400 immigrant workers were arrested in a raid in May. He also faces state criminal charges of child labor violations, and the company faces $10 million in fines over wage violations. PAGE A14
 Inside Obama's Campaign Expenses A18
 Whose Tax Plan Is Better? A14
 obituaries
 EDITH EVANS ASBURY, 98
 An award-winning reporter for The New York Times, she routinely covered hard news in an era when most of her female colleagues were consigned to writing about white-gloved society luncheons. PAGE B10
 WILLIAM WHARTON, 82
 He was a successful impressionist painter who at 53 published his first novel, ''Birdy,'' which won a National Book Award, became a critically acclaimed movie and led to a dozen more books. PAGE B10
 NEW YORK
 NATIONAL REPUBLICANS ENDING AID
 For Most of State's House Races
 National Republican officials have decided to withhold financial support from all but two closely contested Congressional races in New York. Republican leaders are diverting money to candidates in other races. ''You have to decide who comes off life support and who gets a massive infusion,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island. PAGE A24 
 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR WIND PROJECTS
 Two of New York's largest developers of wind power agreed to follow a new, stringent code of conduct created by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, who has been investigating the companies over allegations that they bribed or intimidated municipal officials to approve wind projects. ''It is important to make sure that this alternative-energy sector develops in a way that maintains the public's confidence,'' said Mr. Cuomo. PAGE A24
 SPORTS
 FOR PHILLIES MANAGER,
 What Counts Is What Works
 Manager Charlie Manuel, above, of the Phillies has been belittled for his ill-fitting uniform, his avuncular nature, his unusual syntax. But he outfoxed everybody this season, making the right moves in the Game 5 clincher, while his counterpart, Joe Maddon of the Rays, made the wrong ones. As a result, he joined Dallas Green, the only other manager to lead the Phillies to the World Series title. PAGE B11
 A TEAM BUILT TO LAST
 The Tampa Bay Rays of 2008 ultimately fell short, but people -- even in Boston and New York -- should get comfortable seeing the Rays as an American League force. When your potential free-agent list starts with two part-timers, Cliff Floyd and Rocco Baldelli, your winter is sure to be warm, Alan Schwarz writes. PAGE B13 
 N.F.L. MANTLE PASSES
 This is the fourth year in a row that the N.F.L. has used the game between the Indianapolis Colts and the New England Patriots, often considered the biggest of the regular season, as the unofficial start to the second half by scheduling it on the first Sunday after the World Series. But this year, things are not quite what they have been: it is not even the best game of the weekend, ceding its spot to the Giants and the Cowboys. PAGE B11 
 BRING ON THE LIONS
 The new football stadium in the New jersey Meadowlands will have accessories beyond the luxury suites and the large video boards in all four corners. The architect also promises seating designed to accommodate fans of ''a gladiator sport.'' PAGE B15 
 BUSINESS
 EXXON MOBIL, RIDING OIL WAVE,
 Sets Quarterly Profits Record
 Exxon Mobil reported nearly $15 billion in profit for the quarter, up 58 percent, breaking the record for most profitable American corporation previously held by -- Exxon Mobil. But with oil prices having dropped sharply, Exxon's third-quarter profit could stand as the corporate record for years. A spokesman for the company said that this was more than $1,800 in profit a second, but he added that the company also paid $4,000 a second in taxes. PAGE B3
 DETROIT'S UNSEASONABLE FALL
 Fall is traditionally the season of fresh starts for the hometown industry in Detroit, a time when the auto companies get a jump on the calendar and begin shipping next year's models to dealers. But not so much this year. The auto companies are reeling from higher gas prices, a softening economy and tight credit, and the city's unemployment rate is the second-highest for a United States metropolitan area. PAGE B1
 RUSSIA'S RESERVES DRAINING
 At the start of the global financial crisis, Russian authorities insisted they had ample cash reserves to weather any storm. But as one crisis has piled upon another, Russia has had to spend its reserves faster than anybody imagined. PAGE B1
 PROSECUTORIAL COOPERATION
 The financial crisis has spawned the inevitable investigations by state and federal prosecutors. What is unusual is the cooperation among prosecutors, especially in New York, where in the past they have not been shy about bumping elbows and sometimes had to resolve conflicts at the highest level of the Justice Department. PAGE B1
 PRESSURE GROWS ON SUN
 Sun Microsystems is famed for its inventive spirit and prominent role in building out the Internet's infrastructure. But since the end of the dot-com boom, it has struggled to adapt. And with the report Thursday of dismal sales and a big charge, it is clear that the company is coming under increasing pressure to do something radical. PAGE B3
 Amex to Trim 7,000 Jobs B6
 Conde Nast Makes Cuts B2 
 ESCAPES
 QUIRKY PARTS OF SEATTLE
 That Refuse to Blend In
 In addition to a famous market with fish being tossed about, coffee offerings at every turn and a tall, needle-inspired structure, Seattle has a couple of neighborhoods, Ballard and Fremont, of a particularly independent-minded kind. Each has its unique character: Nordic and proudly maritime in Ballard, arty and free-spirited in Fremont, with its troll statue, above. PAGE D1
 Weekend
 DEAD AND NOT LOVING IT, 
 Not Even a Little Bit
 Wander hallways spattered with blood, and listen to eerie music and the howls of anguish from once-human throats. Do all of this and never leave the couch. Dead Space, a new science fiction survival horror game from Electronic Arts, lets you tour a ship mired in the depths of space as an engineer sent to repair it. But there are some things you can't fix; a ship where most, if not all, have been killed is one of them. It's a delectable adrenaline rush that's almost perfect, Seth Schiesel writes. Page C1 
 DISCOVERING A FORGOTTEN MASTER
 His main claim to fame was his close friendship with Rembrandt, with whom he often worked side by side, but Jan Lievens steps from the shadow of his friend in ''Jan Lievens: A Dutch Master Rediscovered'' at the National Gallery of Art. Famous in Northern Europe for his portraits and religious paintings, he slipped beneath the surface of history. He was a child prodigy, but his later work seemed to lose steam, and his career was a tale of unrealized promise, Ken Johnson writes. Page C26 
 AS BELLS TOLL IN A GRAY PARIS SKY
 Murder, injustice, deformity, intolerance, heartbreak and the Renaissance, such themes fill the stage of the New Victory Theater and spill over in a retelling of ''The Hunchback of Notre Dame.'' This telling is peopled with masked humans and puppets, all marching to a score of atmospheric music. The performance is a fine introduction to Victor Hugo, and it delivers the tale with humor and eeriness. Perfect for Halloween, Lawrence Van Gelder writes. Page C5 
 THINK PORCUPINES AREN'T SCARY?
 Don't cross the mutant, monster variety of porcupines. Right after you make sure not to get abducted by criminals while camping and hide in a convenience store. But ''Splinter'' wouldn't be a horror movie if all of the above didn't happen, so strap in and watch nasty critters that aren't really porcupines shoot spikes into dead flesh and reanimate it. Guess what happens next? Page C10 
 WAR, GENDER ROLES AND VITRIOL
 There is almost nothing of war and killing that has escaped the notice of Martin van Creveld or his book ''The Culture of War.'' It's 485 pages of ramrod-straight commentary about the nature of war and our society as a whole. Mr. van Creveld is going to put wimpy men and women who don't know their roles deeply in place. And no, in case you were curious, you can't handle the truth, Barry Gewen writes, or much more malevolent stomping on the part of the author. Page C28 
 Editorial
 MORE MONEY FOR DETROIT
 Here is a measure of just how grim the economic outlook is: It seems to make sense to pump billions more taxpayer dollars into Detroit's automakers even though they will quite possibly go bust anyway. At this juncture, Detroit is too big to allow it to fail. And who knows? It may learn to survive. page A30
 PALIN'S SAME OLD, SAME OLD
 The energy speech from Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska this week began with great promise, as if Sen. John McCain's all-but-anointed energy czar was on to something. And then, boom, came the same old fix: ''Drill here and drill now.'' page A30
 ZIMBABWE WAITS
 President Robert Mugabe is responsible for much of Zimbabwe's terrible suffering. But so long as Africa's leaders allow him and his henchmen to bully them into silence, they are fully complicit. page A30
 op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Sooner or later, American consumers were going to have to pull in their belts. But the timing of the new sobriety is deeply unfortunate. page A31
 DAVID BROOKS
 A national mobility project would dovetail with the energy initiatives that both presidential candidates have offered. It would benefit from broad political support from liberals and business groups alike. page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HAMAS (84%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HOLOCAUST (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SUICIDE (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (61%); HISTORIC SITES (61%); DEPORTATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (69%); THABO MBEKI (58%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); TIBET (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1302 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CAMPAIGN ADVERTISING; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: 'Godless' Link Prompts Lawsuit

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
The Democratic candidate for Senate in North Carolina fired back in court on Thursday after a television advertisement questioned her Christian faith and linked her to a political group called the Godless Americans. 
The candidate, State Senator Kay R. Hagan, above left, filed a defamation lawsuit against her Republican opponent, Senator Elizabeth Dole, above right, and released a 30-second television response affirming her belief in God.
Mrs. Dole's advertisement, which has been running statewide since Tuesday, accuses Ms. Hagan of secretly attending a fund-raiser hosted by a founder of the Godless Americans, a group that advocates the total separation of church and state.
After video clips of atheists questioning Jesus' existence and calling for the removal of ''In God We Trust'' from dollar bills, Ms. Hagan's face appears on screen as a woman's voice says, ''There is no God.'' The voice belongs to a female member of the secularist group, not Ms. Hagan, but the implication seems to be that Ms. Hagan is uttering the words.
''Elizabeth Dole's attacks on my Christian faith are offensive,'' Ms. Hagan said in her response. ''My faith guides my life, and Senator Dole knows it,'' she added. ''Sure, politics is a tough business, but I approve this message because my campaign is about creating jobs and fixing our economy -- not bearing false witness against fellow Christians.''
Dan McLagan, a spokesman for Mrs. Dole, called the lawsuit and advertisement ''a political stunt'' and said her commercial was ''100 percent factual.''
''They know it, and they're crying lawsuit to distract people from the facts in the ad, which they don't like very much,'' Mr. McLagan said.
Ms. Hagan's aides admit that she attended a fund-raiser in September at the Boston home of Woody Kaplan, a developer and founder of the Godless Americans. But they say that the event had nothing to do with the secularist group and that there were dozens of other co-hosts, including Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts.
Polls show the two candidates running neck and neck.
ROBBIE BROWN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SOUSA/NEWS-ARGUS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON E. MICZEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (72%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



1303 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Sun Microsystems Posts $1.7 Billion Loss

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
With falling revenue, problematic acquisitions, product slips and a stock that has lost three-quarters of its value in the last year, Sun Microsystems is finding that Wall Street is losing patience. 
 The company, which makes computer servers, reported dismal sales and a large write-off Thursday -- but otherwise announced no changes in a strategy that has so far failed to restore the luster that Sun had during the dot-com era.
 ''Sun is a problem child, and the problem child has to change,'' said Brent Bracelin, a hardware analyst for Pacific Crest Securities. 
 For its first quarter, ended Sept. 28, Sun reported a net loss of $1.68 billion, or $2.24 a share, compared to net income of $89 million, or 10 cents a share, in the same period last year. The loss includes a $1.45 billion charge to write down the value of past acquisitions and a $63 million restructuring charge. 
 The company's revenue dropped 7 percent, to $2.99 billion, from $3.22 billion in last year's first quarter. ''Certainly, along with our customers, Sun is experiencing a slowdown as a result of the challenging economic climate,'' Jonathan I. Schwartz, Sun's chief executive, said during a conference call with investors. ''There is a new reality in the marketplace.'' 
 Revenue declined across the globe but was particularly bad in North America, where sales fell 20 percent among financial services customers.
 Sun's servers and Java software are the driving force behind many Web sites and business operations. But in recent years, Sun has struggled to adapt as customers gravitated away from its high-end machines that use custom software and processors to cheap computers powered by commodity parts and free, open-source software.
 Sun's bets on new server and storage systems, new processors and its own open-source software have not come through as fast as the company had hoped. 
 This month, the company's top product developer and co-founder, Andreas von Bechtolsheim, left as chief architect to become chairman and chief development officer at a start-up company. And the global financial crisis is pounding the company as Wall Street and telecommunications customers, which make up an estimated 40 percent of Sun's sales, have collapsed or curtailed technology spending.
 Sun's results were announced after the market close. Shares closed at $5.29 in regular trading Thursday, up nearly 10 percent, giving the company a market value of about $4 billion despite annual sales of about $14 billion. The low market capitalization, combined with Sun's vast intellectual property portfolio and $2 billion in cash, suggest to some observers that Sun needs to do something drastic to bring out its shareholder value. Options include going private with the help of supportive investors or selling its old-line server business to its partner, Fujitsu. 
 Sun moved Thursday to placate Wall Street by disclosing more information than usual about its various product lines, showing strong growth with some of its more radical server designs and traditionally slow-selling storage products. It also hinted at impending layoffs.
 It is unclear if that is enough to satisfy some of Sun's largest investors. ''They need to cut,'' said Chris Whitmore, an analyst with Deutsche Bank.
 Over the last few months, Southeastern Asset Management, a Memphis investment firm run by O. Mason Hawkins, has acquired more than 20 percent of the company. Southeastern has said it expects to actively engage in discussions with Sun's management and third parties about the company's future. 
 In a rare public comment, Jason E. Dunn, a vice president at Southeastern, said Thursday that ''competitors and bears'' have highlighted Sun's low stock price, while ignoring its cash, the value of Sun's technology assets and its chances to cut costs. ''We are seeking the best ways to capitalize on Sun's large intrinsic value,'' Mr. Dunn said.
 Sun's woes stem in part from declining sales of servers that run the Unix operating system -- a long-shrinking market dominated by Sun, I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard. Sun has poured billions of dollars into new products meant to offset these losses, but many of the products are a year or more late to market.
 In addition, Sun has tried to increase the adoption of its software by giving away prized products under an open-source model. Sun argues that mass distribution of its software will lead to more hardware and services revenue, although results have been lackluster so far. 
 Last November, Sun tried to polish its image through a one-for-four reverse stock split. Over the last 11 months, Sun shares have tumbled to pre-split prices. 
 Sun remains a cash machine, however, taking in more than $1 billion during its last fiscal year. While the company has used some of this money for large share repurchases, it has also made some questionable acquisitions, including the $4.1 billion purchase of StorageTek, a lumbering maker of tape storage units, which was included in Thursday's charge. 
 Morale inside Sun, long a favored bastion of top engineers, is sagging, according to current and former employees. The company has endured a number of large layoffs in recent years, although the company still employs about 33,000 people.
 Mr. Schwartz suggested that more cuts are on the way. Sun understands ''the need to balance our costs in light of the new economic reality,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan I. Schwartz, Sun Microsystems' chief executive, says weakness in the broader economy is hurting his company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (86%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); STARTUPS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1304 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

BYLINE: By ALIZA ROSENBAUM, ROB COX, JEFF SEGAL and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Suddenly, Exxon Is Challenged
 Exxon Mobil's chief, Rex Tillerson, might want to encase the company's third-quarter earnings release in Lucite -- because it's unlikely to be repeated. While the oil giant raked in a $14.8 billion profit, a new record for a United States corporation, it must now consider buying a rival at home to protect itself from a worsening environment toward Big Oil abroad. 
 The days of $145 a barrel are over, at least for the foreseeable future. With oil now trading at around $65 a barrel, it will become harder to obscure the industry's biggest challenge: declining reserves and increasingly inhospitable host nations. 
 To wit, Exxon produced 8 percent less oil and gas equivalent last quarter than it did a year earlier. That's not good when one considers that sky-high prices last quarter should have naturally motivated the company to ramp up production.
 Some of the decline had to do with events like hurricanes. But lower entitlement volumes -- industry parlance for the amount of oil host nations let their private drilling partners skim off -- also played a big factor. 
 Exxon faces a further challenge to its profits as falling prices pressure oil-producing nations to keep more of the spoils for themselves. When oil was strong, Venezuela, Russia, Iran and others ramped up their budget spending. As oil prices slide, their budgets risk fall into deficit. Some are already there. Iran, according to Deutsche Bank, needs some $95 a barrel to balance its budget. 
 As a result, governments will try to keep more of their oil to themselves. Brazil, which has offshore fields with enormous reserves, is contemplating the creation of a new state-owned entity to manage them. Earlier this week, Mexico failed to loosen oil and gas rules that might have opened the doors to foreign companies.
 Add that to a 26 percent quarterly jump in Exxon's capital spending, which reflects the difficulty the industry faces in obtaining and exploiting the few new energy reserves it manages to get its drills into, and it's clear Exxon will need to put some new options on the table.
 With headwinds like these, it won't be long before Exxon breaks down and uses its $37 billion cash pile to buy a weaker rival, preferably one with energy assets in the United States, which -- at least for now -- hasn't begun to arbitrarily claw back profits from private oil producers. 
 Games, Not iTunes 
 ''Back in Black'' has more in common with ''Love Me Do'' than meets the ear. Both AC/DC and the Beatles, who recorded those hits, respectively, refuse to sell their songs on Apple's iTunes. Yet both are now getting big into video games. 
 No, rock gods haven't replaced getting high and scoring with getting high scores. The economics of the video game business are just more compelling for the artists and create fewer piracy issues.
 Both bands have fought the allure of iTunes. AC/DC's front man even went as far as to say Apple's service would ''kill music.'' Their reluctance may be understandable. Rock stars have a lifestyle to maintain: hotel rooms to trash and Maseratis to crash. Fans often download a couple of songs for 99 cents each on iTunes, instead of spending $12 or more to buy an entire album.
 So AC/DC's agreement last month to let the maker of the popular Rock Band video game create an updated version based entirely on its songs was a smart business decision. This week the same company signed the Beatles to their very own game. 
 Rock Band has sold four million copies and generated $600 million in revenue. And people can't solely listen to music through the games, so it shouldn't cannibalize CD sales. On the contrary it may just send gamers out to the stores, though they will be limited to Wal-Mart if they want the new AC/DC disc.
 Piracy is also less of a potential problem with video games. It's a lot harder to download an entire illegal game than it is to rip and burn a couple of songs onto a CD.
 At some point the groups will probably have to embrace iTunes. Album sales have fallen more than 25 percent in the last two years as consumers flock to the convenience of buying songs online. But with their transformation to video game avatars, the Beatles and AC/DC may be able to rock on solo for a little while longer.
 ALIZA ROSENBAUM, ROB COX, JEFF SEGAL and ROBERT CYRAN 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AC/DC's Brian Johnson, left, and Angus Young played Tuesday in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MAZUR/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); WEATHER (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (77%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); APPLE INC (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (77%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (77%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1305 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: National G.O.P. Ending Aid to Most New York House Races

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
National Republican officials have decided to withhold financial support from all but two closely contested Congressional races in New York, as the party braces for the possibility that it could lose several more House seats in the state. 
 The decision to abandon much of the state came after internal party polls showed Republican candidates in at least three once-promising races falling behind their Democratic opponents, a party official briefed on the internal deliberations said.
 As a result, Republican leaders are diverting money to candidates in other races in which party officials believe they have a greater chance of success, the official said. 
 The decision by national Republicans to focus on a smaller group of races underscores the degree to which the party is on the defensive not only in New York but also in New Jersey, Connecticut and many other states. The national party is short on cash and is being forced into the difficult position of deciding where to continue to fight -- and where to effectively surrender -- as the election enters the final days of campaigning.
 ''Tough decisions have to be made,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island, who conceded that the party was seeking to minimize its losses. ''You have to decide who comes off life support and who gets a massive infusion.''
 Two of the races effectively being written off in New York are in districts currently held by Republican incumbents who are retiring at the end of the year -- the 25th Congressional District in the Syracuse region, now held by James T. Walsh; and the 13th District on Staten Island, where Vito J. Fossella is stepping down. Representative Fossella was found guilty in a Virginia court this month on a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol.
 A third New York race the party has chosen not to finance is in the 20th District, a heavily Republican area that runs from the mid-Hudson Valley to Lake Placid. It is represented by Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat who is completing her first term.
 Republican leaders had high hopes of toppling Ms. Gillibrand earlier in the year and recruited Alexander Treadwell, an independently wealthy former state Republican Party chairman, to run as the party's candidate.
 Peter Constantakes, a spokesman for Mr. Treadwell, said on Thursday that the national party's decision not to finance the race was not surprising given its limited resources. But he noted that Mr. Treadwell had spent nearly $6 million of his own money on his campaign in a race that his supporters clearly believe is still competitive.
 ''We knew at the outset that they would be focusing on protecting incumbents and helping challengers for open seats,'' Mr. Constantakes said, referring to national party leaders.
 In 2006, Democrats picked up five seats in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and now hold a 34-to-13 advantage in the three states' delegations.
 Republicans are not entirely on the defensive in the Northeast. The party is mounting what even Democrats agree are strong challenges in two Democratic-held districts, those of Representatives Carol Shea-Porter of New Hampshire and Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania.
 Democrats have been making a strong push to pick up Republican-held districts in six races that are being fiercely contested in New York, Connecticut, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
 Over the last two weeks, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spent roughly $5.3 million buying television and radio advertisements in those six races, more than double the roughly $2 million the National Republican Congressional Committee has spent on the same races in that period.
 The national parties are battling particularly hard, and spending hundreds of thousands of dollars, in New Jersey, where the retirement of two Republican congressmen, Mike Ferguson and H. James Saxton, has created prime opportunities for Democrats to pick up additional seats.
 In the case of Mr. Saxton's seat, in New Jersey's Third Congressional District, outside Philadelphia, the Democratic candidate, State Senator John H. Adler, has vastly outspent the Republican, Chris Myers, who is the mayor of Medford and a Lockheed Martin executive. But even Democrats concede that the race is a tossup, underscoring the conservative composition of the district.
 In the case of Mr. Ferguson's seat, in the heavily Republican Seventh Congressional District in northern New Jersey, the Democrat, Assemblywoman Linda Stender, has also poured much more money into the race than her Republican rival, State Senator Leonard Lance. But that race remains tight as well, strategists in both parties say.
 Democrats are also focusing on Representative Christopher Shays, a 10-term Republican who barely won re-election two years ago in Connecticut's Fourth Congressional District in the affluent New York City suburbs.
 Mr. Shays has proved to be a deft politician in past elections, blurring any differences between himself and Democrats in a district with strong Democratic leanings.
 This year, he faces what both parties say is a strong challenge from Jim Himes, a former Goldman Sachs executive who has tried tying Mr. Shays to President Bush's policies on the economy, a potentially potent issue in a district with many Wall Street executives and employees.
 In one particularly telling advertisement currently on television, the image of Mr. Bush appears alongside an image of Mr. Shays, with both men quoted as saying that the economy is fundamentally ''strong.'' The narrator then intones: ''Chris Shays supports George Bush's failed economic policies.''
 The only two New York districts where the national Republican Party is financing candidates are the 29th, in the state's Southern Tier, and the 26th, in the Buffalo area. 
 In the 29th District, Representative John R. Kuhl Jr., a Republican, is being challenged by Eric Massa, a former Navy officer whom Mr. Kuhl defeated two years ago. In the Buffalo race, Chris Lee, a Republican, is battling Alice Kryzan, a Democrat, for the Congressional seat currently held by Thomas M. Reynolds, who is retiring. 
 The national party is also helping the Republican incumbent in the Third Congressional District of Pennsylvania, Phil English, who is facing what analysts describe as a strong challenge from Kathleen Dahlkemper, a Democrat who is receiving considerable financial support from Democratic leaders in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher Shays, a Republican in a Connecticut district with strong Democratic leanings, campaigning in Westport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY/AP)(A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (67%)

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (58%); PETER T KING (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); JAMES T WALSH (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1306 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Obama Plans a Four-Day Hunt for More Democratic Voters

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama is spending the final four days of his campaign mining for votes in places where Democrats have not turned out at full strength in recent presidential races, hoping to offset other areas in swing states where his candidacy may need a lift.
 As Mr. Obama arrived for a rally here on Thursday night, the finishing touches were being etched into his itinerary for the last 96 hours of the contest. He is scheduled to visit at least eight states across three time zones, focusing on liberal and conservative regions from Nevada to Florida where his strategists believe the Democratic margins could be increased by one or two percentage points. 
 ''Don't believe for a second this election is over. Don't think for a minute that power concedes,'' Mr. Obama said, imploring his supporters to consider the critical importance of their ballots. ''We have to work like our future depends on it in this last week -- because it does.''
 While Mr. Obama is briefly swinging through Iowa on Friday afternoon, aides described it as a valedictory return to the state that is most responsible for propelling his candidacy after he won the caucuses there in January. Mr. Obama also wanted a site near Chicago, where he is planning to take a three-hour respite from politics to celebrate Halloween with his two daughters.
 His aides say they think the electoral battlegrounds of Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, Wisconsin and New Mexico are trending toward Mr. Obama, though advisers do not rule out a last-minute visit to any place that suddenly looks troublesome. Instead, he will focus his attention on six states that President Bush won four years ago. 
 After a late-night rally on Friday evening in Indiana, Mr. Obama heads Saturday to Henderson, Nev.; Pueblo, Colo.; and Springfield, Mo. He is scheduled to make a three-city fly-around on Sunday. And on Monday, he is set to dash through Florida, North Carolina and back here to Virginia.
 The breadth of Mr. Obama's travel underscores the number of Republican-leaning states that his advisers believe remain within his reach. It is a wide path to claiming the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency, a strategy intended either to offer a multitude of options to get there or pave the way for a larger margin of victory.
 Mr. Obama, who traveled from here to a late-night rally on Thursday in Columbia, Mo., suddenly scheduled a second stop in Missouri on Saturday evening. The state's economic condition, as well as information gathered from polls and door-to-door canvassing, gave Mr. Obama's advisers reason to think a weekend visit could pay dividends.
 ''It's one more red state where we are playing offense,'' said Robert Gibbs, a senior adviser to the Obama campaign. ''We don't think this race is over, but I'd rather be us than them.''
 The path of his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, is considerably more constricted. As Mr. Obama hit three states on Thursday, Mr. McCain encamped in Ohio, where he is also scheduled to spend Friday. He is set to campaign in Virginia on Saturday and New Hampshire over the weekend. On Monday, a six-state barnstorming tour is on deck.
 As Mr. Obama worked to keep alive a wide array of electoral options, advisers in a war room at the campaign's Chicago headquarters kept a careful watch on polling, early voting statistics and intensity in a variety of states. Democratic-leaning states were also being monitored for any late developments that would warrant a visit by Mr. Obama or his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 Among the biggest focal points in the final lap of the race is Florida, where Mr. Obama began the day on Thursday with a rally at a baseball field in Sarasota, an area dominated by Republicans. But Mr. Obama ventured into the territory, as he intends to do in other regions all weekend, to encourage Democrats to increase their margins even if they do not carry the area.
 Former Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, were heading to Florida on Friday. Mr. Biden was heading back on Sunday, while Mr. Obama was scheduled to return for a rally on Monday morning in Jacksonville, Fla. 
 Some Democrats advised Mr. Obama to make a quick detour to Arizona, the home state of Mr. McCain, where some party officials believe the presidential race has narrowed. Strategists to Mr. Obama have not agreed to such a move, saying they are intent on winning the states where they have spent millions on television advertisements and building ground organizations.
 But the campaign schedule, aides noted, is written in pencil through Election Day. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama entering a rally at Ed Smith Stadium, in Sarasota, Fla., an area of the state dominated by Republicans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HALLOWEEN (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (53%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (53%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008



1307 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: A Presidential Vanishing Act, by Design

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's the week before Election Day. Do you know where your president is? 
 Probably not, and that is by design. With Senator John McCain lagging behind in the polls and many other Republicans fighting for their political lives, the nation's top Republican -- President Bush -- is intentionally lying low this week, and is likely to do so until after Americans cast their ballots to pick his successor. 
 Mr. Bush, an ardent student of politics, knows what it feels like to be down in the polls, and he is keeping a careful eye on the campaign. Earlier this week, he made a surprise visit to the headquarters of the Republican National Committee to offer thanks to those who have served him for the past eight years, and deliver a little pep talk to lift the spirits of beleaguered McCain supporters. 
 ''He talked about how he was never supposed to win a campaign,'' said one person who attended, speaking anonymously because the session was off-the-record. ''He talked about how in '94, 2000, 2004, they always said he had no chance, and he just encouraged us, to say it's just important to keep doing what we're doing and keep working hard.'' 
 The message was not entirely surprising. What was striking is that Mr. Bush chose to deliver it in private. Presidential visits to campaign headquarters are routine business in election years; the day before voters cast their ballots in 2000, President Bill Clinton dropped in on Democratic headquarters in Little Rock, Ark. to buck up campaign volunteers, even as he conceded that he had no idea which way the race between Vice President Al Gore and Mr. Bush, then the governor of Texas, would go. 
 Mr. Bush, though, has made himself increasingly scarce as Election Day approaches. His campaign season effectively ended on Oct. 21 -- two weeks before the election -- when he attended his last political fund-raiser, a $1 million event for the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee. (His wife, Laura, is still on the stump; on Thursday she headlined a get-out-the-vote rally in Mississippi.) 
 With Mr. Bush's job approval ratings at historic lows, political analysts have long said Republican candidates simply do not want to be seen with him. But now, with the election just days away, it seems that Republican candidates do not want Mr. Bush to be seen, period. 
 ''One of McCain's biggest challenges has been how to deal with Bush, and he never quite got it right,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who ran Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign. ''Now, the best thing is silence.'' 
 So the president has temporarily dropped out of sight. Until recently, Mr. Bush was giving talks about the battered economy on nearly a daily basis, prompting some Republicans to grumble privately that so much presidential face time was hurting their election chances. This week, Mr. Bush stepped back, holding just four public events, none with real policy implications. 
 He hosted two foreign leaders, the presidents of Paraguay and the Kurdistan Regional Government, at the White House, stepping before the cameras for a total of 11 minutes. He gave the graduation speech at the F.B.I. Academy in Quantico, Va. And he and Mrs. Bush hosted a light-hearted celebration in honor of the 150th birthday of Theodore Roosevelt, complete with a bespectacled Roosevelt impersonator who looked about the East Room and commented wryly, ''Well, I must say, I like what you've done with the place.'' 
 Joe Lockhart, a former Clinton press secretary, said Mr. Bush's absence from the public stage, though brief, had consequences. ''This has an impact,'' Mr. Lockhart said. ''The world marches on; we're in an economic crisis. We have tensions at home and abroad, yet I think if you walk down the street and ask people, 'Has the president already left?' you'd have a lot of people saying, 'Yeah, I think so.' '' 
 On Friday, Mr. Bush was to leave Washington at noon to spend the weekend at Camp David. Unlike elections past, he will not travel to his ranch in Crawford, Tex., to vote; casting his last ballot as president in person would almost certainly have drawn the sort of news coverage the White House might not want. Instead, the Bushes sought the privacy of absentee ballots this year, casting their votes for Mr. McCain by mail. 
 The couple will watch the election returns from the White House; Dana Perino, the White House press secretary, said the public would most likely hear from her, and not the president, on Tuesday night. To avoid getting drawn into a discussion about the race, Mr. Bush has steered clear of news conferences all fall; Ms. Perino would not say this week when reporters might get a chance to question the president directly about the outcome. 
 If the past is any guide, Mr. Bush will be matter-of-fact about the result. At the Roosevelt event, the president ''seemed sort of fatalistic'' about Mr. McCain's chances and his own place in history, said Representative Peter King, Republican of New York, who was there. Mr. King said his wife grew emotional, telling the president how much she would miss him. Mr. Bush did not grow emotional in return. 
 ''He just said, 'Yeah, yeah,' -- he seemed like, what happens, happens,'' Mr. King said. ''I always feel that he thinks it's his job to keep everybody's spirits up.' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

 
