

801 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: 'Lean In'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
So the persistent wage gap between men and women is caused by women who psych themselves out? The glass ceiling is the result of women who sabotage their careers in anticipation of child rearing? The male-dominated executive suite is really the result of women lacking the courage to seize opportunity? For a male chief executive of an employers' association, this is very comforting. I thought the wage gap had something to do with systemic obstacles within the corporate culture, such as gender stereotyping and sex-based bargaining strategies. I thought I had to work hard to promote gender equality within my organization. But Sheryl Sandberg has given me a new perspective. To get ahead, women should just act more like men.
JOHN J. SARNOLivingston, N.J.The writer is president and general counsel of the Employers Association of New Jersey. 
To the Editor:
While I appreciated the discussion in Anne-Marie Slaughter's review of Sheryl Sandberg's ''Lean In'' (March 10) of the steps needed to ensure that ''caregivers still have paths to the corner office,'' I believe both author and reviewer omit a critical element for making work-life balance more available to all employees. While providing advice to women to build their confidence (the focus of Sandberg's book) and calling on employers to develop ''better models . . . of fitting work and life together'' (as Slaughter does), they overlook the role of government policy -- or lack thereof -- in helping employers offer, and employees gain, a better work-life balance.
The United States lags far behind other industrialized countries in providing support to new mothers and fathers. We just celebrated the 20th anniversary of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which guarantees only unpaid time off to women and men in organizations with more than 50 employees. Since the F.M.L.A., there has been no new federal legislation specifically addressing work-life balance for the vast majority of American workers. It has been 25 years since the Ford Foundation began its initiative on ''Work and Family Responsibilities: Achieving a Balance.'' I applaud Sandberg and Slaughter for bringing this discussion back to public attention but would urge them to also address, as the Ford Foundation initiative did, the need for enhanced federal and state action. Benefits like paid sick days, for example, and incentives like family leave insurance, would send a strong signal that as a society we recognize a systemic need for greater work-life balance and that government plays a vital role in supplementing the support provided by individual families and their employers.
JUNE ZEITLINWashingtonThe writer was the Ford Foundation program officer responsible for the Work-Family program initiated in 1987. She currently directs the Human Rights Education Project at the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights.
To the Editor:
Both Anne-Marie Slaughter and Sheryl Sandberg focus primarily on the corporate world (and its higher echelons at that). Neither addresses the many other fields where women still hit the glass ceiling -- politics and government, publishing, technology and even nonprofits and the arts.
For the past year, I have been collecting first-person stories of glass-ceiling experiences for a proposed book. In several cases, women have told me they are afraid to share their stories since they still work in the field where advancement was denied. In my case, it was not my unwillingness to ''lean in'' but sheer prejudice that enabled my boss at the time to hire a male M.B.A. with no experience in my field and tell me to ''teach him the business.'' During the time I held that job, all four of my children had head lice; I'll save that story for my own book, but needless to say, we weren't on a corporate jet.
SUSAN ELEUTERIOChicago
To the Editor:
Sheryl Sandberg and Anne-Marie Slaughter ignore the day-to-day realities faced by working-class and poor women, and women of color. The legions who serve as nannies, house and office cleaners, massage therapists, manicurists, cafeteria workers, chauffeurs, hairdressers and teachers are the invisible facilitators of women at the top. The unemployed, underemployed, factory workers, migrant workers -- where are they supposed to lean? Most women in this country are already leaning in so much in their overworked lives that they are ready to topple. I come from a working-class family, and my mobility required simultaneously raising twins, working and going to graduate school at night, with no staff or nursery built next to my office. I was so leaned in I was near collapse.
MADELINE BELKINBrooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WRITERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (89%); FAMILY LEAVE (89%); FAMILY (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (87%); MEN (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (76%); CORPORATE CULTURE (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); SICK LEAVE (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); LAWYERS (54%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



802 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2230 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Defining Mental Illness

 BODY:
Readers discuss criticisms of how conditions are diagnosed.
To the Editor:
Controversy surrounding the soon-to-be-released fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or DSM-5 -- often called ''psychiatry's bible'' -- has cast a harsh light on psychiatric diagnosis. For psychiatry's more radical critics, psychiatric diagnoses are merely ''myths'' or ''socially constructed labels.'' But even many who accept the reality of, say, major depression argue that current psychiatric diagnoses often ''stigmatize'' or ''dehumanize'' people struggling with ordinary grief, stress or anxiety.
We can certainly debate the legitimate boundaries of disease and ''normality,'' as in the controversy over ''normal grief'' versus major depression after a recent bereavement. But there is nothing inherently dehumanizing or ''stigmatizing'' about a psychiatric diagnosis. Ironically, such inflammatory charges only worsen society's animus and prejudice toward those with mental illness, by implying that having a psychiatric disorder is grounds for shame. Diagnoses in other medical specialties rarely provoke such a reaction. 
Critics typically reply that other medical specialties have ''objective'' criteria for diagnosis of disease, whereas psychiatrists merely apply ''labels'' to behaviors they (or society) find offensive. But in truth, numerous medical and neurological diagnoses, such as migraine headache, are based on the same type of data that psychiatrists use: the patient's history, symptoms and observed behaviors. I believe that psychiatric diagnoses are castigated largely because society fears, misunderstands and often reviles mental illness.
''Diagnosis'' means knowing the difference between one condition and another. For many patients, learning the name of their disorder may relieve years of anxious uncertainty. So long as diagnosis is carried out carefully and respectfully, it may be eminently humanizing. Indeed, diagnosis remains the gateway to psychiatry's pre-eminent goal of relieving the patient's suffering.
RONALD PIES Lexington, Mass., March 18, 2013
The writer is a professor of psychiatry at SUNY Upstate Medical University and Tufts University.
Readers React
It is impossible to be totally for, or totally against, psychiatric diagnosis. Done well, diagnosis is the essential prelude to an effective treatment. Done poorly, diagnosis can do more harm than good. Diagnosis and the use of psychotropic drugs have both gotten out of hand; 20 percent of the adult population qualifies for a mental disorder, and 20 percent take medicine. The boundary of psychiatry keeps expanding; the realm of normal is shrinking.
How did this happen? As chairman of the DSM-IV Task Force, I must take partial responsibility for diagnostic inflation. Decisions that seemed to make sense were exploited by drug companies in aggressive and misleading marketing campaigns. They sold the idea that problems of everyday living are really mental disorders, caused by a chemical imbalance and cured with a pill.
Meanwhile, we are neglecting the severely ill who can be accurately diagnosed and effectively treated. State budgets for mental health have been slashed, radically reducing access to care for the people who most need medicine and are likely to benefit from it.
The soon to be published DSM-5 will worsen this absurd misallocation of resources by recklessly introducing new and untested diagnoses and reducing the thresholds for existing ones. People who don't need diagnosis and treatment will get it, while people in desperate need will be frozen out; and drug companies will laugh all the way to the bank.
We badly need a conversation about a diagnostic system that is far too loose, a drug industry that is far too unregulated and a mental health system that is badly broken. But the pages of The New York Times are not enough; it is time for a Congressional investigation.
ALLEN FRANCES Coronado, Calif., March 20, 2013
The writer is professor emeritus of psychiatry at Duke University.
I write as someone who has received a psychiatric diagnosis, and as director of a recovery community for others who have been so labeled. Yes, many of us rail against the diagnostic system not only because it is theory masquerading as scientific fact, but also because those labels have the power to take away our most basic civil liberties. As someone who has received diagnoses of both ophthalmic migraines and psychiatric disorders, I can assure you that no one has attempted to hospitalize or medicate me against my will for the former.
On a regular basis through my work, people introduce themselves as a psychiatric diagnosis sometimes before even stating their name. Yes, it is true, as Dr. Pies claims, that many find relief in their diagnosis, but what about when relief becomes identity and resignation?
Had I resigned myself to the psychiatric labels I was given in my teens and 20s and followed the recommended course of treatment (hospitalizations, therapy and medication), I would not now be director, mother, wife and homeowner. Those are the labels that I find humanizing. The others I have shed.
SERA DAVIDOW South Hadley, Mass., March 20, 2013
The writer is director of the Western Massachusetts Recovery Learning Community.
Why are many people worried about the DSM in general, and the DSM-5 in particular? Dr. Pies claims that it is because our society ''fears, misunderstands and often reviles mental illness.'' Quite the opposite: We have domesticated mental illness, we have made it into an integral and somewhat banal part of our culture. On TV, Tony Soprano suffers from panic attacks and depression, and Carrie Mathison (''Homeland'') struggles with bipolar disorder. We all know someone who suffers from a psychiatric disorder, whether it is depression, anxiety or A.D.H.D.
It is precisely this omnipresence of mental illness in our culture that worries many critics of psychiatric diagnoses. Do we want a society in which each and every flaw of character is understood as a disease? What are the moral and legal implications?
Of course, this concern is reinforced by our knowledge of the dark history of psychiatric diagnoses. In the 19th century the diagnosis of ''drapetomania'' was suggested to describe slaves who flee from their masters, and until the 1970s ''homosexuality'' was in the DSM.
Instead of wondering whether receiving a diagnosis is stigmatizing or relieving for the patient, we need to reflect on the much larger ethical, legal and social consequences of creating (or deleting) diagnoses.
PATRICK SINGY Niskayuna, N.Y., March 20, 2013
The writer is a historian and philosopher of science who is co-editing a book about the DSM-5.
The problem with the DSM is that psychiatry over at least the last four decades has attempted to categorize mental and psychological manifestations as distinct illnesses, similar to the categorization of medical and surgical illnesses, instead of recognizing that the best way to understand psychological health is on a spectrum. All of us are a little depressed, a little obsessional, a little histrionic and a little borderline. Some of us have a little more of one of these qualities and less of one of the others. We seek help when one of our traits cause us or those around us too much psychic pain.
Sigmund Freud taught us an important lesson: The border between the normal and the abnormal is not as distinct as we think. There are many shades of gray. Mental health professionals should approach each patient as a unique individual and together decide on the best treatment.
LEON HOFFMAN New York, March 20, 2013
The writer, a psychiatrist, is director of the Pacella Parent Child Center at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society.
Surprising though it may seem, psychiatric diagnosis is not scientifically grounded, does not reduce human suffering and carries risks of a wide array of serious kinds of harm. Even more disturbingly, it is totally unregulated, making it even less regulated than the financial institutions in this country.
I served for two years on two committees that wrote the current DSM but had to resign on ethical and professional grounds when I saw the way they ignored or distorted what high-quality research showed but presented junk science as though it were good when it suited their purposes.
The potential damage caused by a diagnosis is virtually limitless, including loss of custody of a child, loss of employment, skyrocketing insurance premiums, and loss of the right to make decisions about one's medical and legal affairs.
PAULA J. CAPLAN Palm Desert, Calif., March 20, 2013
The writer is a clinical and research psychologist and the author of ''They Say You're Crazy: How the World's Most Powerful Psychiatrists Decide Who's Normal.''
When I was a teenager, I embraced a diagnosis given to me by a psychiatrist because I was desperate for an answer to the emotional and existential pain I'd been experiencing for several years. Initially, as Dr. Pies suggests, that diagnosis provided me relief. But that relief was short-lived, for in internalizing that diagnosis, I stopped thinking of my emotions as part of the spectrum of human experience, and instead came to see them as ''symptoms'' of a ''disease.''
That psychiatric diagnosis stripped me of an authentic sense of self and of a connection to those around me, because my ''condition'' made me different. Only in leaving behind that psychiatric diagnosis and the treatment it required did I find a path through my emotional struggles to the other side, where I could accept myself as I was, and be fully human again.
LAURA DELANO Boston, March 20, 2013
Dr. Pies gets it right that psychiatry's first priority is to alleviate suffering, that a respectfully given diagnosis for often confusing symptoms can be a great relief for many patients and that social stigma against mental illness may extend to the field of mental health.
Psychiatric diagnosis and its manual, the DSM, are a work in progress, with the shortcomings of any human endeavor in which scientific knowledge is incomplete. Psychiatric problems, whether influenced by genes or life events, are rooted in the brain, arguably the most complex organ in the body. The science of what goes wrong in the brain to cause psychiatric symptoms has only scratched the surface of this mysterious organ.
While we wait for better science, we still need ways to organize symptoms to guide research and treatment that may relieve mental or emotional pain. That, after all, is what a patient wants most.
MICHAEL F. GRUNEBAUM New York, March 21, 2013
The writer is an assistant professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University.
Much of the criticism of psychiatric diagnosis comes from within the profession, not just from its ''radical critics.'' Mine are twofold.
First, Dr. Pies is too quick to dismiss our own tendency to confuse social and biological constructs. Our profession has a long and not always admirable history of fostering that confusion. Responsibility for the stigmatization of large groups of people can partly be laid at our door. Just ask gay people who were around before 1973, when homosexuality was finally removed from the DSM.
Second, an emphasis on making diagnoses tends to get in the way of our understanding people in depth. Dr. Pies says, ''For many patients, learning the name of their disorder may relieve years of anxious uncertainty.'' It's all very well for a patient to know what he ''has.'' But what he really needs is to know who he is. When that happens, the ''diagnosis'' tends to disappear. It's just too little an idea to account for human complexity.
VICTOR A. ALTSHUL New Haven, March 20, 2013
The writer is a psychiatrist.
The Writer Responds
I agree with Dr. Frances that careful diagnosis is ''the essential prelude'' to effective treatment. That diagnosis is sometimes not ''done well'' -- for example, after a perfunctory evaluation -- argues for reforming our health care system, not castigating psychiatry. I also agree that psychiatric diagnosis should focus on seriously impaired, suffering individuals, not the ''worried well.''
But no classification scheme should be held responsible for the excesses of ''Big Pharma'' or for overzealous prescribing practices. Nor is it fair to blame psychiatric ''labels'' for the abridgment of civil liberties, as Ms. Davidow does. Psychiatrists, like all physicians, are governed by civil law and judicial oversight.
Re Mr. Singy's comments: Sadly, Hollywood's ''domesticated'' depiction of psychiatric illness hardly reflects the animus and prejudice of society at large. Furthermore, the straw-man argument that psychiatry turns ''every flaw of character'' into a disease amounts to a caricature of standard psychiatric diagnosis, which derives its medical and ethical legitimacy from recognition and alleviation of the patient's suffering.
Dr. Hoffman is right that the border between ''normal'' and ''abnormal'' is often indistinct -- but this is true in most of general medicine. Even in oncology, the boundary between an ''atypical'' and a ''malignant'' cell is sometimes unclear. Finally, I fully agree with Dr. Hoffman that clinicians should consider each patient a unique individual. As Maimonides taught us eight centuries ago, ''The physician should not treat the disease but the person who is suffering from it.''
RONALD PIES Lexington, Mass., March 22, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY INCA PAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (93%); PSYCHIATRY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); DEPRESSION (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



803 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Cultural Capital

BYLINE: By DEBORAH NEEDLEMAN

 BODY:
This issue starts off in America, or at least an idea of America. Brooklyn, N.Y., has, as we all know, become a bastion of handcrafted, locally sourced, small-scale-production everything, from bikes to beer. The irony is that this passion for authenticity, diversity and a longing for realness have now turned what was once just a borough into a global brand, one that is vigorously being exported around the world: France, Russia, the United Arab Emirates. The local has gone global, or in other words, anti-homogenization is itself now being homogenized: In Paris you find food trucks, in Gorky Park a snack kiosk called Williamsburg, there is a Brooklyn Diner in Dubai, and even the native beer, Brooklyn Brewery, is planning an outpost in Stockholm -- how local is that? When a value system based on unscalability starts to scale, it may be time to turn to other locales for a sense of uniqueness and locally grown culture. 
In this issue, we went searching for the world's new cultural capitals, places percolating with individuality. In Seoul, thanks to the newly cash-fueled economy, development is indeed happening superfast, but in a way that doesn't feel like just a mad rush to acquire Western food and fashion, but rather feels truly Korean, completely cool and still underappreciated. In Brussels, we found a powerful new art center. The city's art scene is quite unlike those in Paris, Berlin, London and New York, particularly because it is totally un-sceney. There is a thoughtful, convivial community of artists, enthusiasts and collectors devoted to young, and even somewhat difficult art. And in São Paulo, the new middle class is challenging the city's rigid social stratification and gentrifying and revitalizing formerly blighted districts and turning them into vibrant night life hubs. In Paris, French cuisine is being created from the bottom up rather than the top down. A group of young, multicultural chefs are bringing their diverse perspectives and passion for locally sourced meat and produce to their new restaurants. It is in fact a little like Brooklyn in that sense. But, in the authentic sense, in that it is a global, modern sensibility transforming and reinvigorating the age-old hegemony of la gastronomie française.
Yet for our cover, we returned home to the American desert in Utah to shoot the season's minimalist fashion against the starkly beautiful canyon surrounding the Amangiri resort -- juxtaposing the architecture of the clothing and the human form against that of the landscape and the building itself. Travel is about seeing new things, and also familiar things in a new way. We hope this issue provides a similar sense of discovery.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROYAL TREATMENT: A performance at the Marinsky Ballet in St. Petersburg, Russia, rendered here by Konstantin Kakanias, is one of the highlights of a luxury globe-trotting arts and culture tour. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (90%); BREWERIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



804 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Life After Oil and Gas

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL. 
A reporter on environment and health for The New York Times.

 BODY:
WE will need fossil fuels like oil and gas for the foreseeable future. So there's really little choice (sigh). We have to press ahead with fracking for natural gas. We must approve the Keystone XL pipeline to get Canadian oil.
This mantra, repeated on TV ads and in political debates, is punctuated with a tinge of inevitability and regret. But, increasingly, scientific research and the experience of other countries should prompt us to ask: To what extent will we really ''need'' fossil fuel in the years to come? To what extent is it a choice?
As renewable energy gets cheaper and machines and buildings become more energy efficient, a number of countries that two decades ago ran on a fuel mix much like America's are successfully dialing down their fossil fuel habits. Thirteen countries got more than 30 percent of their electricity from renewable energy in 2011, according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency, and many are aiming still higher.
Could we? Should we? 
A National Research Council report released last week concluded that the United States could halve by 2030 the oil used in cars and trucks compared with 2005 levels by improving the efficiency of gasoline-powered vehicles and by relying more on cars that use alternative power sources, like electric batteries and biofuels.
Just days earlier a team of Stanford engineers published a proposal showing how New York State -- not windy like the Great Plains, nor sunny like Arizona -- could easily produce the power it needs from wind, solar and water power by 2030. In fact there was so much potential power, the researchers found, that renewable power could also fuel our cars.
''It's absolutely not true that we need natural gas, coal or oil -- we think it's a myth,'' said Mark Z. Jacobson, a professor of civil and environmental engineering and the main author of the study, published in the journal Energy Policy. ''You could power America with renewables from a technical and economic standpoint. The biggest obstacles are social and political -- what you need is the will to do it.''
Other countries have made far more concerted efforts to reduce fossil fuel use than the United States and have some impressive numbers to show for it. Of the countries that rely most heavily on renewable electricity, some, like Norway, rely on that old renewable, hydroelectric power. But others, like Denmark, Portugal and Germany, have created financial incentives to promote newer technologies like wind and solar energy.
People convinced that America ''needs'' the oil that would flow south from Canada through the Keystone XL pipeline might be surprised to learn that Canada produced 63.4 percent of its electricity from renewable sources in 2011, largely from hydropower and a bit of wind. (Maybe that is why Canada has all that oil to sell.) The United States got only 12.3 percent of its electricity from renewables in 2011. Still, many experts say that aggressively rebalancing the United States' mix of fossil fuel and renewable energy to reduce its carbon footprint may well be impractical and unwise for now.
''There is plenty of room for wind and solar to grow and they are becoming more competitive, but these are still variable resources -- the sun doesn't always shine and the wind doesn't always blow,'' said Alex Klein, the research director of IHS Emerging Energy Research, a consulting firm on renewable energy. ''An industrial economy needs a reliable power source, so we think fossil fuel will be an important foundation of our energy mix for the next few decades.''
Fatih Birol, chief economist at the 28-nation International Energy Agency, which includes the United States, said that reducing fossil fuel use was crucial to curbing global temperature rise, but added that improving the energy efficiency of homes, vehicles and industry was an easier short-term strategy. He noted that the 19.5 million residents of New York State consume as much energy as the 800 million in sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South Africa) and that, even with President Obama's automotive fuel standards, European vehicles were on average more than 30 percent more fuel efficient than American ones.
He cautioned that a rapid expansion of renewable power would be complicated and costly. Using large amounts of renewable energy often requires modifying national power grids, and renewable energy is still generally more expensive than using fossil fuels. That is particularly true in the United States, where natural gas is plentiful and, therefore, a cheap way to generate electricity (while producing half the carbon dioxide emissions of other fossil fuels, like coal). Promoting wind and solar would mean higher electricity costs for consumers and industry.
Indeed, many of the European countries that have led the way in adopting renewables had little fossil fuel of their own, so electricity costs were already high. Others had strong environmental movements that made it politically acceptable to endure higher prices in order to reduce emissions.
But Dr. Birol predicted that the price of wind power would continue to drop, while the price of natural gas would rise in coming years, with the two potentially reaching parity by 2020. He noted, too, that countries could often get 25 percent of their electricity from renewable sources like wind and solar without much modification to their grids. A few states, like Iowa and South Dakota, get nearly that much of their electricity from renewable power (in both states, wind), while others use little at all.
So as Europeans have grown accustomed to wind turbines dotting the landscape, much of America continues to regard renewable power as a boutique product, cool but otherworldly. When I tell colleagues that Portugal now gets 40 percent of its electricity from renewable power, the standard response is ''Portugal is windy.'' But many places in America are, too. When I returned from Kristianstad, Sweden, and marveled at how that city uses waste from farms, forestry and food processing plants to make biogas that supplies 100 percent of its heat, the response is likewise disbelief. But I'd venture that a similar plan could work fine in Milwaukee or Burlington, Vt., cities that also anchor rural areas.
MAPPING studies by Dr. Jacobson and colleagues have concluded that America is rich in renewable resources and (unlike Europe) has the empty space to create wind and solar plants. New York State has plenty of wind and sun to do the job, they found. Their blueprint for powering the state with clean energy calls for 10 percent land-based wind, 40 percent offshore wind, 20 percent solar power plants and 18 percent solar panels on rooftops -- as well as a small amount of geothermal and hydroelectric power.
Dr. Jacobson said that careful grid design and coordination of power sources would ensure a stable power supply, although a smidgen of natural gas would be needed for the 0.2 percent of the time that renewables failed to generate sufficient electricity. The report claims that the plan would create 58,000 jobs in New York State (which now imports much of its power), create energy security and ultimately stabilize electricity prices.
The authors say the substantial costs of enacting the scheme could be recouped in under two decades, particularly if the societal cost of pollution and carbon emissions were factored in. The team is currently working on an all-renewable blueprint for California.
Sounds good on paper, but even Europe is struggling a bit with its renewable ambitions at the moment.
Germany, which got 20.7 percent of its electricity from renewable energy in 2011, is re-evaluating the incentives it provides to increase that share to 35 percent by 2020, because of worries that its current approach will drive up power prices inordinately at a time of economic uncertainty. It has had trouble ramping up transmission capacity to carry the wind power generated in the blustery North to the industrial South, where it is needed.
Dr. Birol said that natural gas and renewable energy could ultimately be ''a good couple'' for powering New York State, and elsewhere. But in what mix? If, in 20 years, cars are 50 percent more efficient and New York State could get much of its electricity from wind and solar, should we be more measured in making fossil fuel investments? As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo considers the boundaries of hydraulic fracturing in New York State and as Secretary of State John Kerry decides the fate of the Keystone XL pipeline, how much we really ''need'' fossil fuels is worth pondering.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT SAMUEL HANSON) (SR1)
 GRAPHIC: How Much Electricity Comes From Renewable Sources: Circles below are sized according to the electricity use per capita for a selection of countries. (Source: International Energy Agency) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (83%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



805 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: Your Wallet Here

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
The emerald hedgerows that are a natural euphemism for Hamptons exclusivity (out here, good hedges, not good fences, make for felicitous neighbors) are hanging tight.
Most of the double-decker dunes that define the East End's ocean coastline are hanging tight, too. That unfortunately can't be said for patches of Long Island, Fire Island, New Jersey and Connecticut, where the extraordinary weather events of autumn 2012 transformed undulating beaches and waterfront homes to sodden pancakes. On the South Fork of Long Island, where the array of villages and hamlets includes Southampton, Bridgehampton, Sag Harbor and Montauk, agents and town officials say only one home, owned by the Lauder family and precariously perched at water's edge in Wainscott, drowned in the maelstrom created by Hurricane Sandy. But erosion is a perennial enemy, and efforts to rebuff it, continual.
Otherwise, it's back to business bolstering the bulkheads and merchandising the seductive strata of housing stock (from darling shingled cottages to resorts-masquerading-as-mansions), with brokers forecasting yet another pricey summer season. ''Nobody really suffers from Hamptons sticker shock anymore,'' said Judi Desiderio, the founder of Town and Country Real Estate. 
Harald Grant, a senior vice president of Sotheby's International Realty, has already rented out an oceanfront house in Southampton for $550,000 for the month of August alone and has a stack of 14 contracts and purchase memos on his desk representing pending sales of $4.5 million to $25 million. Not to worry: the most expensive oceanfront property in the Hamptons, on East Hampton's Lily Pond Lane and co-listed by Tim Davis of the Corcoran Group and Diane Saatchi of Saunders & Associates, is still available for $40 million.
For high-rolling renters, Mr. Grant has a trio of oceanfront rentals in Southampton that can be had for the summer for $400,000, $600,000 or $800,000. Why pay $25 million to buy, and more to maintain, a summer getaway when you can rent and run? Or, for a million or so, you can rent year round.
''But in general what's different this season,'' Mr. Grant said, ''is that in the mind of most buyers, less is more, and nobody wants to be the king of the hill and flaunt their wealth the way people were doing before the recession.
''Folks who spent $20,000 for a month's rental,'' he continued, ''may be looking to spend $15,000. Folks who could be driving a Rolls-Royce are settling for a Mercedes. People aren't saying, 'I have to have it; I'll pay anything,' and writing checks on the spot. An owner who says, 'I want $32 million for my oceanfront house' probably isn't going to get it. He'll get somewhere in the mid-20s.''
But only if the house has a pool, a tennis court and central air-conditioning; just being oceanfront isn't enough anymore.
Still, abundant deals are to be had for perceptive buyers who don't require fur vaults, wine caves or home theaters.
''I just sold a wonderful house for $2.9 million in Southampton Village,'' Mr. Grant said. ''Five bedrooms, five bathrooms and a pool on half an acre. My clients would have liked a tennis court, but instead of spending $5 million, they scaled back a bit and they're happy and comfortable with that decision.''
Mr. Davis, of Corcoran, found a $1.75 million mini-estate on 1.7 acres near Little Peconic Bay in Southampton for Barry LePatner, a Manhattan lawyer, and his wife, Marla Tomazin, an image consultant, after they told him they were looking for a private spot with year-round proximity to the city and great curb appeal. ''We wanted to find a house that made us happy and excited to see it every time we pulled into the driveway,'' Mr. LePatner said.
It wasn't an easy search, until Mr. Davis remembered a house he had listed a few years back at what he thought was an exorbitant price. It hadn't sold, and he no longer had the listing. But when he approached the owners, who were eager to retire to Florida, they were open to an offer.
''We loved the house the minute we saw it,'' Mr. LePatner said. ''It had great trees, a great big garden, a pool, and I never imagined I'd be able to buy a second home with a tennis court.'' (He plays.)
''The icing on the cake,'' he continued, ''was that we got a 15-year fixed mortgage at 2.8 percent, and on Jan. 9 we closed. The timing was just right -- maybe if you bought out here in 2006 you made a big mistake and paid too much, but Tim assured us there was no way we'd lose out buying at this price in a rising market.''
In a departure from years past, Ms. Desiderio said, 6 of the 10 most expensive Hamptons homes to sell in 2012 were inland. There, the pastoral and pristine prevailed. But for a few extra leaves in the swimming pool, the landlocked housing stock survived the meteorological dramas of last fall mostly unscathed.
And prices are in fine fettle, same as those trademark hedges. Quarterly reports indicate that they are not only intact, but even embarking on a growth spurt. Properties under $1.4 million in turnkey condition are, said Caroline Sarraf of Brown Harris Stevens, ''flying off the shelves, especially if they're within walking distance of the villages. Younger buyers all want something that's 'done' and doesn't need any work.
''Waterfront properties,'' she continued, ''are always sought-after, but it's probably safe to say that waterfront with elevation is becoming more important. Maybe that's the new value that's priceless.''
There is even opportunity for water-lovers who aren't billionaires. The oceanfront sales listings at the Corcoran Group start at $249,000 (a co-op in Westhampton).
''Prices have not gone down in the first two months of this year,'' said Ernest Cervi, an executive managing director of Corcoran, ''and the median price of our rentals actually increased 21 percent over this same time last year.''
This being the Hamptons, and the clientele being a tad demanding, properties that aren't technically in the supply chain are also in play. ''People are always looking to buy things that aren't available,'' Mr. Cervi said. ''I just reviewed the paperwork on the sale of a waterfront home in Water Mill that hadn't even been listed for sale. But when somebody wants to give you $11.5 million in the middle of the winter, sometimes you listen.''
According to John Gicking, a vice president and brokerage manager of Sotheby's East Hampton office, ''The luxury property sales, which to us means $10 million and over, went up 60 percent in the last year, and we're also seeing a lot of private sales, where we're asked to market properties quietly and make discreet inquiries.
''Of the top 20 sales,'' he said, ''all properties costing $15 million or more, Sotheby's participated in 11 sales and privately brokered 4 that totaled $79 million.
''Value was the word of the year for 2012,'' Mr. Gicking added. ''The smart money watched and waited patiently for a correctly priced home, and among prime properties in the most desirable areas, we've seen bidding wars continuing into 2013, a clear indicator that, after a few turbulent years, buyers are confident about jumping back into the Hamptons market again.''
Throwbacks to giddier seasons, bidding wars have erupted on both the rental and sales fronts. In East Hampton Village, a regal oldie priced at $24.5 million sold for $25.75 million, no water views included, unless one counts the pool. In Montauk, a $35,000 summer rental inspired a bidding war among clients of Rosehip Partners that was ultimately resolved at $38,500.
''Montauk is scorching hot, already 95 percent rented,'' said James Young, a principal of Rosehip, a brokerage that also operates HamptonsRentals.com, which offers season-long rentals ranging from $17,000 to $95,000. Last summer, Rosehip set a company record with a $375,000 oceanfront Montauk rental.
Paul Brennan, of Douglas Elliman Real Estate's Bridgehampton office, agreed that Montauk is the cutting-edge destination of an increasingly wealthy, and youthful, subset of Hamptons habitués. ''We've already done 10 Montauk deals from this office,'' he said, ''because people are coming out, looking around, and migrating out there because they see it as the last bastion of the way it was in the old days before everything was gentrified and Ralph Lauren-ed out. Montauk is definitely percolating. Luckily for folks who like it the way it is, the land is 70 percent reserve.''
So it won't become a second Sagaponack, the no-man's-land of potato fields that morphed into an elite pumpkin patch of hedge-fund managers' McMansions.
''I can count 10 spec houses priced at $15 million or more sitting there waiting to be sold,'' Mr. Brennan said of Sagaponack, which also has the region's most expensive non-oceanfront property: a 33-acre estate on Sagg Pond that belongs to Robert Hurst, a former Goldman Sachs executive. It went on the market in June and at last glance was still asking $65 million.
''When I started out in this business three decades ago,'' Ms. Desiderio said, ''you couldn't give the dirt away in Sagaponack south. It was flat, barren land, not one green twig. Now it's a lushly landscaped, beautiful area, but it's an area where prices inexcusably doubled between 2005 and 2007, loaded up with Bear Stearns and Lehman dice. Then the bottom fell out.''
Christopher Peluso, a developer who has built houses on speculation in the $8 million to $12 million bracket in Water Mill, Southampton and Bridgehampton, has carved out his own niche in the marketplace by offering fully furnished properties. ''Everything that gets built out here sells eventually,'' he said, adding that buyers are sophisticated and quick to spot flaws.
''These trophy properties are a personal statement for them,'' he said, ''but one thing they all want, even with a traditional shingled exterior, is modern amenities. They don't want to feel like they're at their grandmother's beach house. They want bright, modern and airy. They want the space to flow for entertaining. They want every bedroom to have an en-suite bath. Shared bathrooms have gone the way of the dodo-bird; no one shares a bathroom in the Hamptons unless they're under the age of 3. Amenities that used to be considered upgrades, now everybody wants them.''
The record price for a house remains the $60 million paid in 2008 for 108 Gin Lane in Southampton, but not every buyer operates on an elastic budget.
Back on less rarefied ground, Ms. Desiderio said, most transactions in 2012 occurred in the $500,000-to-$999,000 range, where shared baths occasionally apply. ''There were 542 recorded sales, more than any other price category.''
Still, median home prices in Amagansett, another spot where 2013 summer rentals are already scarce, rose 22 percent to $1.8 million last year. And East Hampton Village raised the bar in every category. It accounted for 6 of the 10 most expensive sales, had an average sale price of $3 million, and was home to 10 of the 33 sales recorded in the $10 million-and-over range. It exudes the quintessence of desirability. So snagging a deal in or near the village can be cause for euphoria.
Steve Cohen and his partner, who share an Upper West Side apartment with their 2-year-old daughter and a dog, had convinced themselves they wanted a charming century-old Hamptons fixer-upper. But after spending most of last year looking for the right place at the right price -- $1.5 million or less -- they wound up buying a 1986 colonial on the fringes of East Hampton Village that they had seen and rejected at the beginning of their search.
''When we first saw this home we were in and out in like two minutes,'' acknowledged Mr. Cohen, a broker with the Corcoran Group in New York City. ''It was yellow, it was blah, wasn't an antique, wasn't for us.
''But,'' he continued, ''after a year of being educated as to what else was out there, we realized we'd totally misjudged it: here was a house with great bones in a great neighborhood within walking distance of the playground and the village, and almost unbelievably, the price had been reduced. It's like it was waiting for us; it was meant to be.''
They paid $1.275 million, closed on Dec. 24, and are in the midst of renovations. ''We feel like we got in before the market took off again,'' Mr. Cohen said.
They have a good excuse for feeling that way: in early March, they received a call from their home's listing broker, Ms. Saatchi of Saunders & Associates. She had received an offer on their house for considerably more than they had paid, and asked if they were interested in selling. Negative. They're busy moving in and making it their own.
''For years,'' Ms. Saatchi said, ''time was on the buyers' side. They would look and look and from one visit to the next, prices would go down and inventory up. Now, waiting is starting to mean higher prices and fewer choices. As in the city, we're running out of prime inventory.''
As for the perpetually picturesque waterfront, buyers with $20 million to spend are showing no post-Sandy qualms about securing the totemic Hamptons trophy: a south-of-the-highway oceanfront estate with all the trimmings of a five-star resort. But the Montauk Highway is losing its traditional role as the great divider. Alec Baldwin and Paul McCartney could live anywhere in Amagansett, said Arlene Reckson, a broker with Corcoran's Amagansett office, but both settled north of the highway. ''The action is brisk right now on both sides of the highway,'' she said. ''People want to buy now and be in for the summer. This quarter is a barometer for the way the rest of the year is going to go.''
The next time the sales market heats up, she predicted, will be at summer's end: ''It will happen in September, when nobody wants to leave.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coopers Beach in Southampton, above, is considered one of the most desirable places in the country to spend the summer. A bidding war broke out last year for a 14-bedroom 1891 mansion, right, on two acres in East Hampton Village. Listed at $24.5 million, the property sold for $25.75 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
Steve Cohen and his partner recently traded $1.275 million for a colonial-style walk-tovillage house in East Hampton. Top, an oceanfront house with a pool and a tennis court on coveted Meadow Lane in Southampton is on the market for $28.5 million.
For Marla Tomazin and Barry LePatner, a house in Southampton with a pool and a tennis court was love at first sight. They closed on the 1.7-acre property late last year, paying $1.75 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MATT DUTILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); WEATHER (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); AUCTIONS (71%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); CITIES (70%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (67%); SAUNDERS & ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (53%)

PERSON: STEVE COHEN (50%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



806 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Waits, Apprehensive, For Manager To Take Over

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and STEVEN YACCINO; Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit, and Steven Yaccino from Chicago.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The City Council is both anxious and defiant. Public employees' unions are bracing for a showdown. Protests and lawsuits are promised. Meanwhile, the mayor has simply stopped talking about what is on nearly everyone's mind in this troubled city.
All across Detroit, tension is building as a state-appointed emergency manager prepares to take control of the city government on Monday and begin a drastic restructuring of its finances and operations.
''There is anxiety. There is fear of the unknown,'' said Yolanda Langston, the president of a Service Employees International Union's local in Detroit. ''We don't know which way he's going to go.''
Since Gov.Rick Snyderannounced the state takeover on March 1, there has been a dearth of information about the first steps in the long-awaited turnaround of Detroit. 
But that will change at 12:01 a.m. Monday, when Kevyn D. Orr, a 54-year-old bankruptcy lawyer from Washington, is given the authority to fix the city however he sees fit.
Mr. Orr has spent the past week entrenched in a state office building in downtown Detroit, poring over briefing books and privately meeting with outside consultants and behind-the-scenes supporters in the city.
He has so far held back from talking with elected officials, union leaders and creditors -- even as speculation grows about how he will tackle the cash shortfalls and huge long-term liabilities that have crippled many city services for Detroit's 700,000 residents.
Yet he knows that once he is on the job, he will have to generate cooperation for some painful measures or force them on people who already resent his appointment.
''I'm used to meeting resistance,'' Mr. Orr said in an interview, alluding to his legal career in bankruptcy court. ''What I'm hoping is that once we get into it and get rid of some of the initial angst and concern, we'll move to the rule of reason.''
The Republican governor's decision to install an emergency manager for the Democratic-controlled city had been widely expected for months. Still, the reality of a state takeover of its largest city has left many here shocked and visibly nervous about the future.
At the City Council's last meeting before the takeover, some residents vented their anger, while Council members wondered aloud if they would have any statutory powers at all once Mr. Orr took office.
''I am angry, like so many thousands of other residents of Detroit,'' said Kathy Montgomery, 64. ''Angry that our governor and mayor decided we need an emergency manager. We must oppose them.''
The emergency-manager law gives Mr. Orr extraordinary powers to reshape the city, including eliminating Council members' salaries.
''I don't know what kind of role we can have,'' said Brenda Jones, one of nine City Council members. ''I feel that we are just sitting here as a symbolic symbol right now.''
MayorDave Bing, who chose at the final hour not to oppose Mr. Orr's appointment, will not publicly discuss what happens next. At a news conference on Friday on new police initiatives, he declined to answer questions about Mr. Orr.
Resistance, however, is building among some more vocal opponents, like the city's Council of Baptist Pastors, which has called for a lawsuit to block Mr. Orr's appointment.
The president of the Detroit chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., the Rev. Wendell Anthony, said he expected to see protests in the coming week. ''It's not about how we should brace for Mr. Orr,'' he said. ''Mr. Orr should brace for Detroit.''
Reaction to Mr. Orr's arrival has been more favorable among business leaders and other community groups. And even as some union leaders worry about job cuts, others hope for a dialogue that minimizes reductions.
Mr. Orr, for his part, said he was eager to begin fruitful negotiations, while at the same time reserving the possibility of a bankruptcy filing that would void city contracts.
''You never want to enter a situation by taking anything off the table,'' he said. ''You have to be honest.''
He can expect the same candor in return from the chiefs of the police and fire unions, groups that have absorbed repeated personnel and budget cuts despite increases in homicides and arsons.
''Our numbers have been driven into the ground,'' said Mark Diaz, the president of the Detroit Police Officers Association, which has seen its ranks fall below 2,000 officers. ''I hate to say we're at rock bottom, but I hope we're at rock bottom.''
The firefighters' union is currently suing the city for ''failure to provide safe fire response in the city'' because there are only about 40 stations left to cover nearly 140 square miles. And the head of the union, Daniel F. McNamara, worries that Mr. Orr could cut even more. ''This person has the ability to tear up our contracts, to come in and not listen to anyone,'' Mr. McNamara said.
Emergency managers in other Michigan cities have sold assets, privatized services and eliminated entire government departments. But Detroit has been struggling financially on a much larger scale. The state's review team said its cash shortfall could reach $100 million by June.
Still, there has been stubborn resistance to privatization from residents and unions, suggesting that Mr. Orr is in for protracted battles on possible moves like selling off the city's water and sewerage department.
''We will not let him do it,'' said Michael Mulholland, an official with Afscme Local 207, which represents 900 city workers. ''As they say, when hell freezes over, I'll fight on the ice.''
Mr. Orr played down the prospect of confrontation and said his first priority would be addressing basic needs like turning on streetlights that have gone dark because of budget cuts. He acknowledges that residents have heard those promises before and are skeptical that the state can provide what the city has not delivered.
''I'm not a political animal,'' he said. ''I'm a restructuring professional, and I'm going to function in that capacity.''
Mr. Orr has already felt the political spotlight that comes with his new job, when The Detroit News reported that the State of Maryland had filed tax liens against him for failing to pay unemployment insurance for a nanny for his two children.
He immediately apologized for a ''remarkably embarrassing'' oversight and made restitution to the state. ''To be honest,'' he said, ''I had not expected to be under that level of scrutiny.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on March 24 with an article about the mood of apprehension in Detroit as the city awaited the arrival of a state-appointed emergency manager misidentified the area of the city shown. And because of an editing error, a correction in this space last Sunday misidentified the picture that carried the erroneous caption. The photograph was of several rundown buildings and they were in midtown Detroit, not in downtown; the erroneous caption was not with a picture of a police officer patrolling on horseback. (That was another photograph with the article, and its caption was correct.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sgt. Douglas Muston, above, on patrol in Detroit with Elmo, said only, ''It will be interesting to see what happens in the next couple of years.'' Kevyn D. Orr, below left, will take over as the city's emergency manager on Monday. Below right, downtown Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LITIGATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013



807 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Is the Estate Tax Doomed?

BYLINE: KENNETH F. SCHEVE JR. and DAVID STASAVAGE


HIGHLIGHT: As inequality has risen in the developed world, many governments have been dismantling &#8212; not increasing &#8212; estate taxes. In the United States, it took national wartime mobilization to create the political conditions that made progressive estate taxation possible. 

 BODY:
Under the deal struck by President Obama and Congress to avert the "fiscal cliff," the estate tax - long targeted for elimination by Republicans - survived, but in a substantially diminished form.
In 2001, the year George W. Bush became president, individual estates over $675,000 were taxed and the top rate was 55 percent. Now, the maximum tax is 40 percent and only individual estates worth more than $5.25 million are taxed (a figure that will now be automatically adjusted for inflation).
The estate tax has a history as long and controversial as the income tax. Its first modern version appeared in the federal tax code in 1916, three years after the ratification of the 16th Amendment, which authorized the federal income tax. Advocates of the estate tax see it as a crucial tool for raising revenue and a buffer against the sharp, nearly inexorable rise in inequality over the past four decades. Opponents, who call the levy "the death tax," say it penalizes savers, harms growth and interferes with parents' ability to pass on their wealth to their children. 
With income inequality at levels not seen since the 1920s, and low economic mobility, some liberals hope that in the coming years our lawmakers will face intense political pressures to maintain, and even raise, taxes on inherited wealth. In this view, economic realities are building a compelling case for a more progressive tax system.
But judging from the experience of other wealthy countries, the opposite may be true. As inequality has risen in the developed world, many governments have been dismantling - not increasing - estate taxes. Countries from Austria to Canada to Sweden have abolished estate taxes outright.
There is nothing inevitable about high estate taxation in a democracy - even in an era of fiscal inequality, and even if a country is in fiscal crisis. Estate taxes have survived when their proponents have demonstrated that they are needed to ensure shared sacrifice in a collective effort. Over the past two centuries this has most often happened during the most extreme instance of national purpose: mass warfare. In an article published last year in the American Political Science Review, we presented evidence covering estate or inheritance tax rates in 19 industrialized countries over two centuries. This analysis allowed us to see the forces that have shaped estate taxation over the long run.
In many ways, our discoveries flout the conventional wisdom on estate taxation. Consider first that across the 19 countries, estate taxes are often very old. England has had such a tax since the probate duty of 1694. As early as 1791, France adopted a universal estate tax. In most cases, estate taxes were established more than a century before an income tax. The United States federal government is an exception to this pattern, but at the state level, estate taxes commonly predated income taxes by many years. Why? For much of history, it was easier for a government to record the value of an estate than to track income on an annual basis. The lesson is clear: estate taxation first arose because it was easy, not because of concerns about inequality.
Consider next a second fact: by long-term historic standards, current estate tax rates are actually relatively high. Before 1914 it was almost unheard-of for a government to maintain a top estate-tax rate above 10 percent - well below the 40 percent rate just agreed to by President Obama and Congress. Low rates prevailed both in monarchies and democracies. This was true even though the late 19th and early 20th centuries were a period of very high wealth inequality across the industrialized world. The lesson is again clear: democracies have often taxed estates lightly even during periods of rampant and rising inequality.
What happened after 1914? Governments that conscripted their populations for the two world wars also raised top rates of estate taxation to levels previously thought unimaginable. By the end of World War II, the top marginal estate-tax rate reached 75 percent in Britain and 77 percent in the United States. In strong contrast, countries that did not mobilize their populations en masse made no such change. In 1945, the top estate-tax rate in Norway was only 35 percent, and just 9.45 percent in the Netherlands. As we have shown in other work, this same divergence between countries also held for the income tax. Perhaps this divergence is no surprise. The two world wars were costly, and it may have been urgent to increase taxes on the rich along with the rest. In fact, we found that the two world wars not only led to an overall increase in taxes, but also led to the wealthy bearing a greater share of the tax burden than ever before. In the case of the estate tax, rates on large estates increased significantly more than those on small estates. But it was not just the need for revenue that explains why taxes also became more progressive in this way.
Our research identifies the political reason that estate taxes, and taxes in general, became more progressive in countries that mobilized for war. Proponents of progressive taxation made a clear case that if the broad population was to sacrifice for the war effort, then on grounds of fairness the wealthy should make a financial sacrifice to pay for the war. During World War I this came to be known as "the conscription of wealth," a turn of phrase arguably as impressive as "death tax," in contemporary debates. Likewise, during World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and American labor unions made use of the term "equality of sacrifice" to call for heavier taxes on the wealthy. Since war debts continued after each war's end, these two terms retained their salience even after conflict had ceased.
A striking illustration of our fairness argument can be gleaned by using the Google Ngram Viewer. This allows users to scour the archive of full-text searchable historical documents to see the frequency of specific phrases. Since John Stuart Mill's use of the term in 1848, "equality of sacrifice" has been one proposed criterion for judging whether a tax system is fair. By the late 19th century, many economists argued that equality of sacrifice could be assured only if the wealthy were taxed more heavily than the rest. Each dollar in taxes represented a smaller sacrifice for the rich than for the poor. Nevertheless, the Ngram's evidence shows that "equality of sacrifice" gained real salience only with the advent of the First World War, seven decades after the term's introduction. See the graph:
Wartime experiences helped to reshape societal beliefs about a fair tax system. As a result, top rates increased significantly, and the estate tax for the first time had an impact on the distribution of wealth in American society. In their work on wealth inequality over time in the United States, the economists Wojciech Kopczuk and Emmanuel Saez suggest that the 77 percent top marginal estate-tax rate that prevailed after World War II helped ensure that the share of wealth owned by those at the top of the social ladder did not return to its prewar highs. However, given the fairly high exemption levels and rate thresholds, the effect of the estate tax was felt mainly by those with the very largest fortunes, and not by the merely well-to-do. This was fitting, since wartime calls for equality of sacrifice had focused above all on the very largest fortunes.
While reference to the term "equality of sacrifice" remained frequent for a time after World War II, its use nonetheless fell into steady decline as the wartime context receded. In step with this shift, since the 1970s there has been a parallel movement away from heavy estate taxation, both in the United States and in other countries that mobilized heavily for the two world wars. Outside a wartime context, arguments that estate tax rates must remain high in order to prevent undue concentration of wealth have failed to carry the day. Some countries that took part in the war, like Canada, Australia and New Zealand, have abolished estate taxes outright. Today, with a 40 percent top estate-tax rate, the United States is actually something of an outlier. Among the other 18 countries in our study, the average top marginal rate of inheritance taxation in 2011, the most recent year for which we have comparative data, was only 18.4 percent (counting those without a tax as having a rate of zero).
The question for supporters of the federal estate tax, and for proponents of progressive taxation more generally, is how the downward trend in estate taxation might be stopped. As the United States shifts to fighting wars with precision weapons and a relatively small volunteer Army, the argument that taxation of the rich is necessary in wartime to ensure equal sacrifice will no longer be convincing. How can one ask the wealthy to sacrifice for war when much of the rest of the population isn't really sacrificing either?
We believe that the future of the federal estate tax will instead depend on its advocates' showing that it is needed to ensure shared sacrifice of a new kind in an era of more limited wars. The same can be said for progressive taxation in general. Advocates of progressive taxation cannot assume that rising inequality will create irresistible pressure for higher taxes on inherited wealth. They will need to construct a compelling narrative of shared sacrifice, but shared sacrifice for what?
Our research shows that a narrative like this cannot be constructed out of thin air. It instead requires dramatic external events providing proponents of progressive taxation with a way to recast the debate. It is always possible that economic crisis could constitute such a new event. Absent a new narrative of this sort, we expect a continued, long-run trend toward lower taxation of the rich, and as part of this, lower taxation of estates. This also implies either that federal revenues will not rise - or if they do, then new revenues will most likely come from nonprogressive sources like a national sales tax. In short, the survival of the estate tax, and of progressive taxation as we have known it, may only be temporary.
Kenneth F. Scheve Jr. is a professor of political science at Stanford University. David Stasavage, a professor of politics at New York University, is the author of "States of Credit: Size, Power, and the Development of European Polities. 

        
Singapore's Lessons for an Unequal America
        
In the South and West, a Tax on Being Poor
        
Dependents of the State
        
The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor
        
Inequality Is Holding Back the Recovery

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); PROBATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); WILLS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LIBERALISM (71%) Income Inequality; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Taxation; United States Economy; Wills and Estates; The Great Divide

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



808 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: 'World Dream,' Business on Chinese President's First Overseas Trip

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: As Xi Jinping, China&#8217;s new leader, headed to Africa after Russia, on his first overseas trip, there was talk back home of a &#8220;China dream&#8221; to be shared by the world. And of business. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Even as President Barack Obama was wrapping up a Mideast trip - his first to Israel as president - during which he discussed war and peace, a new world leader, Xi Jinping, had begun his first overseas trip as the Chinese president, amid talk of dreams, business and even "a new type of inter-power relations." 
His destinations? Russia, with which China shares a long border (the two nations have been both close allies and bitter enemies in the six-plus decades since China's revolution in 1949), and Africa, where Chinese investment is soaring, from less then $100 million in 2003 to about $14.7 billion now, according to the International Business Times. China's annual trade with Africa has boomed to around $200 billion, the report said, citing China's Ministry of Commerce, compared with just $10.5 billion in 2000. China overtook the United States as Africa's largest trading partner in 2009, it said. 
In Russia, Mr. Xi called for closer cooperation in foreign policy and the economy, my colleagues David M. Herszenhorn and Chris Buckley reported, saying China and Russia had as they "seek to offset the influence of the developed West." Mr. Xi also called for closer military cooperation.
In Africa, "Xi is signaling a long-term commitment," Ross Anthony, research fellow at the Center for Chinese Studies at Stellenbosch University in South Africa told the International Business Times.
On Sunday, Mr. Xi was due to arrive in Tanzania for the second leg of his nine-day, four-nation tour, which will continue to South Africa and Republic of Congo. 
Given the scale of the strategic and business interests involved, it's probably safe to say that the trip "will reveal some important features of Xi's concept of world order," as Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University of China, said in a story by Xinhua, the state-run news agency. Mr. Shi is close to China's foreign policy establishment, which makes his views significant.
What is that world order?
At home, Mr. Xi has often talked about his "China dream."
 The new president spelled it out in his inaugural address last Sunday. Here's how Hong Kong's South China Morning Post analyzed it: "In his maiden speech as head of state, Xi Jinping invoked his favorite concept of the 'China dream' and laid out a vision of a stronger nation with a higher standard of living for its 1.3 billion people during his administration." 
"Painting his vision of a great renaissance of the nation, Xi stressed that the 'China dream' could only be realized by seeking 'China's own path,' cultivating patriotism and following the Communist Party's leadership. 'We must continue to strive to achieve the China dream and the nation's great revival,' he said."
That's Mr. Xi's vision in China.
"Pursuing the 'Chinese dream' of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is conducive to realizing the 'world dream,' and if the 'world dream' comes true, it could offer a sound external environment for the country to achieve the 'Chinese dream,' Mr. Shi said," according to Xinhua. 
Confused? 
Mr. Shi was more specific, sort of: "From the destinations of Xi's first foreign trip, we can tell that China is committed to promoting democratization in international relations as well as a more just and reasonable international order and system," Xinhua quoted him as saying.
A comparison with former President Hu Jintao's first overseas tour in 2003, which included Russia, other neighbors Kazakhstan and Mongolia, and a European nation, France, highlights China's shifting geopolitical interests and Mr. Xi's determination to improve China's image abroad, other Chinese analysts said.
In fact, at play is nothing less than "a new type of interpower relations" that Mr. Xi hopes will upend old, zero-sum theories by promoting win-win cooperation, Xinhua reported.
"China now advocates a new type of cooperative relationship among all major powers, including leading powers among developing countries," Xinhua wrote, citing the views of Ruan Zongze, deputy head of the China Institute of International Studies. (Mr. Ruan is also considered close to China's foreign policy establishment.)
"We should adopt a new and open attitude toward all powers," Mr. Ruan said.
It sounds promising, though it's worth noting that in Africa, there is already a roiling discussion about the benfits and drawbacks of China's intense interest in the continent, which many say is aimed at securing resources it needs to feed its fast-growing economy back home. 
"China is not trying to colonize Africa in a 19th-century way, but economically, the trade pattern with Africa resembles something of a colonial era, whether they like it or not," said Mr. Anthony, the Stellenbosch University scholar, according to the International Business Times.
In Tanzania, Mr. Xi's first stop (he will also attend a summit meeting of leader of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa in South Africa this week), expectations of the trip are running high. But there are warnings. 
"These are key issues to crosscheck: They are looking for resources to feed their industries, which Tanzania can provide," said Abdallah Safari, the former director of the Tanzania-Mozambique Center for Foreign Relations, in an article in The Citizen, a Tanzanian newspaper. "But what does Tanzania get in return?"
"The bulk of stuff going out is raw material and the bulk of stuff coming in is manufactured goods, which is bad for African countries because they are not adding any value to the economy," he said.
And Bashiru Ally, of the University of Dar es Salaam, called for a new approach to relations between China and Tanzania, "given that they are currently based on resources," the newspaper wrote.
"It is a one-way relationship," said Mr. Ally. "That means giving more while receiving less. All they are doing is defining their intentions towards our resources. The ideal situation would be for the relationship to change to an equal profits one," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) View From Asia

PERSON: XI JINPING (93%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



809 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: Why I am on Hunger Strike in Bahrain

BYLINE: ZAINAB AL-KHAWAJA


HIGHLIGHT: Zainab al-Khawaja, a human rights activist in Bahrain, writes a letter from prison about why she is on a hunger strike and how Martin Luther King Jr. guides her acts of civil disobedience. 

 BODY:
 This is a letter that Zainab al-Khawaja, a human rights activist and political prisoner in Bahrain, wrote from jail. I wrote about her in a column examining the regime's repression of protesters. The United States is a leading backer of the Bahrain government and sells it weapons. Zainab went on a hunger strike recently, after being denied family visits in jail. - Nicholas D. Kristof 
A great leader is immortal, his words and deeds echo through the years, decades, and centuries. They echo across oceans and borders and become an inspiration that touches the lives of many who are willing to learn. One such leader is the remarkable Martin Luther King Jr. 
As I read his words I feel that he is reaching out to us from another land and another time to teach very important lessons. He teaches us, for example, that we must not become bitter, that we must be willing to sacrifice for freedom, and that we can never sink to the level of our oppressors. 
As flowers of hope and resistance to oppression started spurting out of the ground across the Arab world, the people of Bahrain saw the first signs of a new dawn two years ago. It was a dawn that we hoped would end a long night of dictatorship and oppression, a long winter of silence and fear, and spread the light and warmth of a new age of freedom and democracy.
With that hope and with determination, the people of Bahrain took to the streets on February 14, 2011 to peacefully demand their rights. Their songs, poetry, paintings and chants for freedom were met with bullets, tanks, toxic tear gas, and birdshot guns. The brutal al-Khalifa regime intended to end the peaceful revolution, by using violence and spreading fear. 
In the face of this brutality Bahrainis showed great restraint, day after day protesters held up flowers to soldiers and mercenaries who would shoot at them. Protesters stood with bare chests and arms raised shouting "peaceful, peaceful" before they fell onto the ground covered in their blood. Thousands of Bahrainis were detained and tortured for crimes such as "illegal gathering" and "inciting hatred against the regime."
Two years later, the Bahraini regime's atrocities continue. Bahrainis are still being killed, detained, injured and tortured for demanding democracy.

When I look into the eyes of Bahraini protesters today, too many times I see that hope has been replaced by bitterness. It's the same bitterness Martin Luther King Jr. saw in the eyes of rioters in the slums of Chicago in 1966. He saw that the same people who had been leading non-violent protests, who were willing to be beaten without striking back, were now convinced that violence was the only language the world understood. 
I, like Dr. King, am saddened to find some of the same protesters who faced tanks and guns with bare chests and flowers, today asking "what's the use of non-violence, or of moral superiority, If no one is listening?" 
Dr. King explains that this despair is only natural when people who sacrifice so much see no change in sight and feel their suffering has been worthless.
Part of the reason that progress toward democracy is so slow in Bahrain is, ironically, that democratic nations support the dictators here. Whether it's by selling them arms, or giving economic and political support, the United States and other western governments have proven to the people of Bahrain that they stand with the al-Khalifa monarchy and against the democratic movement.
As I read Dr. King's words recently, I found myself wishing he was alive. I found myself wondering what he would have to say about U.S. support of Bahraini dictators. What he would say about turning a blind eye to the blood and tears being spilt in the quest of freedom? All I had to do was turn a page, and this time Martin Luther King spoke not to me, but to you - to America.
"The words of the late John F. Kennedy come back to haunt us. Five years ago he said, 'Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.' Increasingly, by choice or by accident, this is the role our nation has taken - the role of those who make peaceful revolution impossible by refusing to give up the privileges and the pleasures that come from the immense profits of overseas investment. I am convinced that if we are to get on the right side of the world revolution, we as a nation must undergo a radical revolution of values," Dr. King said, "a true revolution of values will soon cause us to question the fairness and justice of many of our past and present policies."
King continued: "These are revolutionary times. All over the globe men are revolting against old systems of exploitation and oppression and out of the wombs of a frail world new systems of justice and equality are being born. The shirtless and barefoot people of the land are rising up as never before. 'The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light.' We in the West must support these revolutions. It is a sad fact that, because of comfort, complacency, a morbid fear of communism, and our proneness to adjust to injustice, the Western nations that initiated so much of the revolutionary spirit of the modern world have now become the arch anti-revolutionaries."
Concluding his speech, Dr. King added, "We must move past indecision to action. We must find new ways to speak for peace," He said, "If we do not act we shall surely be dragged down the long dark and shameful corridors of time reserved for those who possess power without compassion, might without morality, and strength without sight.
The echo of Martin Luther King's words has travelled across oceans, through the walls and metal bars of a Bahraini prison, and into the overcrowded and filthy cell I sit in. I hear the words of this great American leader. A presidency isn't what made this African American leader great, but his unbending dedication to morality and justice.
As I marvel at his wisdom, I wonder if America is also listening.
As a political prisoner in Bahrain, I try to find a way to fight from within the fortress of the enemy as Nelson Mandela once said. 
When I was placed in a cell with fourteen people - including two convicted murderers - and I was handed orange prison clothes, I knew I couldn't put them on without having to swallow a little bit of my dignity. Not wearing the convicts' clothes, because I have committed no crime, that became my small act of civil disobedience. Not letting me see my family and my three-year-old daughter, that has been their punishment. That is why I am on hunger strike. 
Prison administrators ask why I am on a hunger strike and I reply "because I want to see my baby" and they reply "obey and you will see her." But if I obey, my little Jude won't be seeing her mother, but a broken version of her. In a letter, I told the prison administration that I will not be wearing the convicts' clothes because, as Dr. King said of Henry David Thoreau's essay pn civil disobedience, "no moral man can patiently adjust to injustice."
What makes jail difficult is that you are living with your enemy. Even in the most basic ways, if you want to eat you stand in front of him with your plastic tray. Every day one faces the possibility of being ridiculed, shouted at, or humiliated for any reason.
But I have let the words of great men help me through these times.
When the "specialist" threatened to beat me for telling an inmate she has a right to call her lawyer, I did not shout back, I repeated King's words in my head "no matter how emotional your opponents are, you must be calm." 
When I had had enough of people telling me that I'm getting all my rights and refusing to face that I have responsibilities, I got angry. I felt so frustrated that I shouted back at the people who told me that over and over. 
But hadn't a great man said, in the struggle of justice we "must not become bitter," and we must "never to sink to the level of our oppressors"?
A doctor came to see me and said "you might go into a coma, your vital organs might stop working, your blood sugar levels are so low, and all this for what? A uniform."
I replied: "I'm glad you weren't with Rosa Parks on that bus, to tell the woman who sparked the civil rights movement "that it was all for nothing but a chair." When the doctor started asking about the civil rights movement I offered him my Martin Luther King book. If you knew me you'd know that's rare for me - I hardly ever give away my books.
Sometimes, through his words, Martin Luther King has been a companion, a cell mate more than a teacher.
He wrote "no one can understand my conflict who hasn't looked into the eyes of those he loves, knowing that he has no alternative but to take a stand that leaves them tormented." I do understand. It is as though he sits beside me. The jail experience, he said, "is life without the singing of a bird, without the sight of the sun, moon, and stars, without the felt presence of fresh air. In short, it is life without the beauties of life, it is bare existence - cold, cruel, degenerating".
When my father, my hero and my friend, was sentenced to life in prison for his human rights work, he also refused to wear the grey prison uniform. As usual the government tries to put us in our places by taking away what means the most to us. They will not allow my father to receive visits from his family. 
Cruelty is the al-Khalifa regime's trademark, but unwavering courage is my father's. No emotional pressure will break him.
The family visit is the one thing one looks forward to in prison. My father and I will not be seeing our family or each other, but the struggle for our rights will continue.
Until we see our family next, we hold them in our hearts.
Yesterday, while looking at my prison cell door with its iron bars, I had a dream. This time it was a small and simple dream, not a grand dream of democracy and freedom. I just saw my smiling mother, holding my daughter's hand, standing at the door of my prison cell. I saw them walk through the metal, my mother sat on my prison bed, my daughter and I lay side by side, our heads in her lap. I tickle Jude and she laughs, my heart fills with joy. Suddenly I feel that we're in a cool and protective shadow, I look up and see my father standing by the bed, looking at the three of us and smiling. I dream of those I love, and it is their love that gives me the strength to fight for the dreams of our country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (89%); TORTURE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); RIOTS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POETRY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%) American politics; Bahrain; Barack Obama; Middle East; President Obama

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



810 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WOOL, HAROLD

 BODY:
WOOL--Harold, a gentleman and a scholar to the final days of a very full life, died on March 20th at age 96 in Tinton Falls, NJ. An accomplished labor economist and an avid tennis player, he will be greatly missed by his wife Helen of 16 years, three daughters from his wife Muriel (deceased), four grandchildren, and all his extended family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%); ATHLETES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



811 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Economic data to be released include durable goods for February, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller housing price index for January, new home sales for February and consumer confidence for March (Tuesday); pending home sales for February, weekly jobless claims, fourth-quarter gross domestic product (revised) and the Chicago P.M.I. for March (Thursday); personal income and spending for February and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for March (Friday). 
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments on whether drug companies and makers of generics are engaged in so-called pay-for-delay anticompetitive practices; a trial is scheduled to begin in Sacramento on whether Stockton, Calif., can continue its bankruptcy case; and New York State and Irving Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff's firm, will be in court over their separate lawsuits against J. Ezra Merkin, who was accused of funneling investments to Mr. Madoff's Ponzi scheme.
On Tuesday, Apple and Samsung will ask an appeals court to overturn a ruling that they disclose financial information they want to keep confidential.
On Wednesday, a bankruptcy judge plans to rule on final approval of the merger of American Airlines and US Airways, and Pinnacle Foods, owned by the Blackstone Group, will price its I.P.O.
On Thursday, bond markets close early, at 2 p.m.
On Friday, financial markets are closed in the United States in observance of Good Friday.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman; Olivier Blanchard, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund; and Axel Weber, a former member of the governing council of the European Central Bank, will take part in a public discussion at the London School of Economics.
On Tuesday, the leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa gather for two days in Durban, South Africa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); BRICS COUNTRIES (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BONDS (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); EASTER SEASON (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); AIRLINES (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PONZI SCHEMES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); JUDGES (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); BOND MARKETS (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); PINNACLE FOODS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%); BX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (67%); BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



812 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Pension Funds Wary as Bankrupt City Goes to Trial

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Wall Street is taking America's biggest pension fund to court this week, for a long-awaited battle over who takes the losses when a city goes bust -- workers and retirees, municipal bondholders, or both.
Stockton, Calif., declared Chapter 9 bankruptcy last year after suffering one of the country's sharpest riches-to-rags swings when the mortgage bubble burst. Struggling to stay afloat, Stockton has slashed tens of millions of dollars' worth of city services -- firefighters, senior centers, library programs for at-risk children -- and said it would cut its municipal bond repayments to a degree never seen before in a municipal bankruptcy.
But it has drawn the line at slowing down its current workers' pension accrual, or cutting the benefits its retirees now receive. 
Mutual funds that hold the threatened bonds, and the insurers that guarantee them, have cried foul, citing the principle that in bankruptcy, similar classes of creditors must be treated the same way. Their objections have prompted the federal bankruptcy judge handling Stockton's case, Christopher M. Klein, to schedule a four-day trial this week, starting Monday.
The immediate question before the judge is whether Stockton qualifies for Chapter 9 at all; unlike companies, cities must meet certain criteria before they can get federal court protection from creditors.
But there is a looming, larger question that has pension funds around the country nervous: Will a victory by bondholders in Stockton pave the way for cuts in its workers' pensions and its payments to Calpers, which, in turn, could lead to the demise of other public pension plans?
One small city in Rhode Island, Central Falls, has already cut its pensions severely, but legal experts say Rhode Island's laws made it easier there than it would be in most other places -- particularly California, where the huge state pension system has deep pockets to fight legal battles. Central Falls was not part of any state system, and its pension fund for police officers and firefighters nearly ran out of money.
''People will be watching very closely,'' said Michael A. Sweet, a bankruptcy lawyer at Fox Rothschild in San Francisco, whose practice includes advising local governments on Chapter 9 issues.
Cities, school districts and local governments all over the country have promised their workers pensions that looked reasonable in better times, but have turned into budget-busters since the financial crisis. Local taxpayers are increasingly unwilling to shoulder the rising costs, yet conventional wisdom has it that public pensions cannot be reduced. Some officials are quietly wondering if that means not even in bankruptcy.
''Every member of every city council that's struggling with these issues, who takes their job seriously, is looking for solutions,'' Mr. Sweet said. ''No one wants to talk about it, and no one really wants to go there. But if Calpers can be forced to take a haircut in Stockton, then what's to stop another city from saying, 'Gee, we'll file for bankruptcy and cut in half our $10 million pension contribution?' ''
He and other public finance lawyers said that what happens in Stockton could help guide Detroit, which is not in Chapter 9 but was recently put under emergency management by the state of Michigan.
Calpers is a $252 billion giant that administers pensions for California state employees and many municipal workers. It calculates how much its member cities must set aside each year, bills them, collects the money, invests it and sends retirees their benefits. When Calpers's investments lose money, as they did in the stock market crash, the bills increase.
In 2011, Stockton paid a little more than $20 million to Calpers -- about double what it paid to run its public libraries. Its payments are expected to nearly double in the next 10 years, making Calpers the city's biggest creditor. Stockton says it has no choice but to keep paying, even as it pares other costs, including its payments to bondholders. It says that if it cuts the rate at which its workers build up their pensions, workers will leave -- especially the police, who have been recruited with the promise of large, early pensions. Last year, Stockton asked Calpers for a ''hardship exemption,'' allowing it to slow down its contributions. Calpers said no, fearing that if Stockton fell behind, it might never catch up.
''They're scared to death,'' Mr. Sweet said. ''Calpers says, 'You can't give us a haircut, because if you do, the world is going to collapse. If it happens in Stockton, it's going to happen in San Bernardino, and if it happens in San Bernardino it's going to happen in Modesto, and if it happens in Modesto it's going to happen in Bakersfield, and if it happens in Bakersfield it's going to happen in Fresno.' ''
In fact, San Bernardino filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy not long after Stockton did, then simply stopped making its contributions to Calpers. Calpers geared up to sue, but the judge handling San Bernardino's case, Meredith M. Jury, stopped it, saying she would address the issue of pension contributions later in the bankruptcy.
A spokeswoman for Calpers, Amy Norris, praised Stockton for keeping up its pension contributions in bankruptcy, saying it had made ''the right business decision.''
But the Wall Street creditors say Stockton is getting the money for Calpers by shortchanging its bondholders.
''The agenda is clear,'' wrote Jeffrey E. Bjork, a partner at Sidley Austin in Los Angeles, in a court filing on behalf of Assured Guaranty, a bond insurer. ''The city hopes to use the Chapter 9 plan process to impose permanent impairment, and to cram down a nonconsensual plan, on capital-market creditors.'' Mr. Bjork said this was an improper use of Chapter 9 and asked Judge Klein to throw out Stockton's case.
Other creditors making similar arguments include two high-yield mutual funds managed by Franklin Advisers; Wells Fargo Bank, the bond trustee; and the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, another bond insurer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stockton, Calif., declared bankruptcy last summer. It may lose police officers if it cuts pensions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BONDS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); JUDGES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); CITIES (72%); CHILDREN (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (58%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



813 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.07 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.11 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.08 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Department of Transportation, $195 million of debt securities. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Collier County, Fla., $66.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Gaston County, N.C., $68.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Virginia Housing Development Authority, $80 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arizona, $98.6 million of University of Arizona system revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
California, $81.4 million of infrastructure debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Franklin County, Ohio, $210.3 million of hospital facilities improvement revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Klein, Tex., Independent School District, $69 million of unlimited tax school refinancing bonds. Raymond James.
Mesa, Ariz., $91.1 million of excise tax revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Midlothian, Tex.., Independent School District, $56.4 million of unlimited tax refinancing bonds. FirstSouthwest.
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, $245.3 million of wastewater improvement revenue bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Ohio, $61.9 million of capital facilities lease appropriation revenue bonds. KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Oklahoma City Economic Development Trust, $118 million of tax apportionment bonds. Bank of America.
Pajaro Valley, Calif., Unified School District, $70 million of election general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Santa Clara, Calif., $62.6 million of Silicon Valley electric revenue refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Sonoma County, Calif., Junior College District, $122 million of general obligation revenue refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Washoe County, Nev., $150 million of highway revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Westchester, N.Y., Local Development Corporation, $70.3 million of revenue refinancing bonds. BB&T Capital Markets.
Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $92.2 million of revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
Wylie, Tex., Independent School District, $58 million of unlimited tax refinancing debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); EXCISE TAX (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); HOSPITALS (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); PJC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



814 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Thrills, and Hope, On Opening Day

BYLINE: By VIVIAN YEE

 BODY:
Arriving at 8:30 the night before the ride was supposed to reopen for the season, Mr. Cyclone -- otherwise known as Eric Knapp, 47 -- had claimed the first spot in line to ride the Cyclone, Coney Island's famed wooden roller coaster, and more than 15 hours later, he was still excited. Very excited.
''Woooo!'' he roared on Sunday, leaping atop the Cyclone's first car and flexing his arms, one of which bore a Cyclone tattoo, for the benefit of the crowd. (The letters ''C Y C L O N E'' were shaved onto his head, his black sleeveless T-shirt said ''Cyclone,'' and he claimed to have ridden the roller coaster nearly 2,000 times.) A few minutes later, he became the first to zoom down the tracks. 
Just like that, Coney Island was back.
The opening of the Cyclone is always an occasion: with a christening of Brooklyn egg cream and blessings from local dignitaries, its first go-round in late March means spring is here, and summer is coming.
While it is debatable whether spring has arrived in New York -- the temperature refused to top the mid-40s on Sunday, and yet another snowstorm threatened to cast gloom over the city on Monday -- the grand opening this year nearly had to be delayed. Awash in almost five feet of seawater after Hurricane Sandy struck in October, Coney Island's colorful rides had only just emerged from an extensive rehabilitation. Workers were still finishing the repairs when families began to crowd the entrances on Sunday morning.
''Our commitment after the hurricane, from Day 1, was to be ready on time for this event,'' said Alberto Zamperla, the chief executive of the international company that operates Luna Park, one of two privately owned amusement parks that opened in Coney Island on Sunday. Though Mr. Zamperla declined to say how much the renovations had cost, he described seemingly endless rounds of repair, from replacing electrical systems to dumping go-carts brined in seawater.
Restaurants across from the Cyclone were still closed, though they were expected to reopen by Easter.
Daniel Cucuzza, 11, of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, said he was ''kind of worried'' that the ride would not open in time. Until last year, he was not tall enough to participate in his family's tradition of riding the coaster on opening day.
Reassured that he could ride, Daniel still looked at least as nauseated as he was excited.
''I just have a scared feeling,'' he said. ''I feel sick.''
But he was more daring than Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, who declined a ride on the Cyclone. ''I'll do everything for Brooklyn, except go on this ride,'' he said, donning a cream-colored apron (without bothering to tie the strings) that functioned as a giant name tag.
''Let the season begin!'' he said, as if spring awaited only his command to arrive.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, in somewhat more traditional attire, wearing a dark red tie, and a flag pin on his suit, wielded the traditional bottle of egg cream. He dropped it once, but managed to smash it on the Cyclone's first car.
Other landmarks shuttered by the hurricane have begun to show signs of life, too. Officials recently announced that the Statue of Liberty, closed since the hurricane, would reopen by July 4, and the New York Aquarium in Coney Island would partly reopen by late spring.
Such reopenings are symbolic milestones in the city's recovery and important economic boosters; Luna Park alone employs 450 Coney Island residents, Mr. Zamperla said, and hundreds more work at Coney Island's other attractions, Boardwalk restaurants and nearby shops.
But for some Coney Island residents, the hullabaloo surrounding the amusement park's first day back was just a reminder of how far they still had to go. About a dozen local residents turned out to protest across the street from the Cyclone on Sunday, holding large neon signs that read ''Coney Island Is Not Back'' and ''People Live Here.'' Many institutions that make up the heart of the residential community there, including the public library, community center and hospital, are still closed or only partly functional, and they said it was premature to celebrate the area's recovery.
Mr. Markowitz said he sympathized with their frustrations, but said the Cyclone was worth the jollity nonetheless. For residents and business owners, ''it gives them hope that they're not being ignored,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Five months after Hurricane Sandy devastated the coast, the familiar traditions on opening day at Luna Park on Coney Island hinted at a return to normal.
Some rides have only just emerged from an extensive rehabilitation.
 Eric Knapp, right, waited in line for hours to be the first on the Cyclone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



815 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Three Cheers for the Nanny State

BYLINE: By SARAH CONLY. 
Sarah Conly, an assistant professor of philosophy at Bowdoin College, is the author of ''Against Autonomy: Justifying Coercive Paternalism.''

 BODY:
Brunswick, Me.
WHY has there been so much fuss about New York City's attempt to impose a soda ban, or more precisely, a ban on large-size ''sugary drinks''? After all, people can still get as much soda as they want. This isn't Prohibition. It's just that getting it would take slightly more effort. So, why is this such a big deal?
Obviously, it's not about soda. It's because such a ban suggests that sometimes we need to be stopped from doing foolish stuff, and this has become, in contemporary American politics, highly controversial, no matter how trivial the particular issue. (Large cups of soda as symbols of human dignity? Really?)
Americans, even those who generally support government intervention in our daily lives, have a reflexive response to being told what to do, and it's not a positive one. It's this common desire to be left alone that prompted the Mississippi Legislature earlier this month to pass a ban on bans -- a law that forbids municipalities to place local restrictions on food or drink. 
We have a vision of ourselves as free, rational beings who are totally capable of making all the decisions we need to in order to create a good life. Give us complete liberty, and, barring natural disasters, we'll end up where we want to be. It's a nice vision, one that makes us feel proud of ourselves. But it's false.
John Stuart Mill wrote in 1859 that the only justifiable reason for interfering in someone's freedom of action was to prevent harm to others. According to Mill's ''harm principle,'' we should almost never stop people from behavior that affects only themselves, because people know best what they themselves want.
That ''almost,'' though, is important. It's fair to stop us, Mill argued, when we are acting out of ignorance and doing something we'll pretty definitely regret. You can stop someone from crossing a bridge that is broken, he said, because you can be sure no one wants to plummet into the river. Mill just didn't think this would happen very often.
Mill was wrong about that, though. A lot of times we have a good idea of where we want to go, but a really terrible idea of how to get there. It's well established by now that we often don't think very clearly when it comes to choosing the best means to attain our ends. We make errors. This has been the object of an enormous amount of study over the past few decades, and what has been discovered is that we are all prone to identifiable and predictable miscalculations.
Research by psychologists and behavioral economists, including the Nobel Prize-winner Daniel Kahneman and his research partner Amos Tversky, identified a number of areas in which we fairly dependably fail. They call such a tendency a ''cognitive bias,'' and there are many of them -- a lot of ways in which our own minds trip us up.
For example, we suffer from an optimism bias, that is we tend to think that however likely a bad thing is to happen to most people in our situation, it's less likely to happen to us -- not for any particular reason, but because we're irrationally optimistic. Because of our ''present bias,'' when we need to take a small, easy step to bring about some future good, we fail to do it, not because we've decided it's a bad idea, but because we procrastinate.
We also suffer from a status quo bias, which makes us value what we've already got over the alternatives, just because we've already got it -- which might, of course, make us react badly to new laws, even when they are really an improvement over what we've got. And there are more.
The crucial point is that in some situations it's just difficult for us to take in the relevant information and choose accordingly. It's not quite the simple ignorance Mill was talking about, but it turns out that our minds are more complicated than Mill imagined. Like the guy about to step through the hole in the bridge, we need help.
Is it always a mistake when someone does something imprudent, when, in this case, a person chooses to chug 32 ounces of soda? No. For some people, that's the right choice. They don't care that much about their health, or they won't drink too many big sodas, or they just really love having a lot of soda at once.
But laws have to be sensitive to the needs of the majority. That doesn't mean laws should trample the rights of the minority, but that public benefit is a legitimate concern, even when that may inconvenience some.
So do these laws mean that some people will be kept from doing what they really want to do? Probably -- and yes, in many ways it hurts to be part of a society governed by laws, given that laws aren't designed for each one of us individually. Some of us can drive safely at 90 miles per hour, but we're bound by the same laws as the people who can't, because individual speeding laws aren't practical. Giving up a little liberty is something we agree to when we agree to live in a democratic society that is governed by laws.
The freedom to buy a really large soda, all in one cup, is something we stand to lose here. For most people, given their desire for health, that results in a net gain. For some people, yes, it's an absolute loss. It's just not much of a loss.
Of course, what people fear is that this is just the beginning: today it's soda, tomorrow it's the guy standing behind you making you eat your broccoli, floss your teeth, and watch ''PBS NewsHour'' every day. What this ignores is that successful paternalistic laws are done on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis: if it's too painful, it's not a good law. Making these analyses is something the government has the resources to do, just as now it sets automobile construction standards while considering both the need for affordability and the desire for safety.
Do we care so much about our health that we want to be forced to go to aerobics every day and give up all meat, sugar and salt? No. But in this case, it's some extra soda. Banning a law on the grounds that it might lead to worse laws would mean we could have no laws whatsoever.
In the old days we used to blame people for acting imprudently, and say that since their bad choices were their own fault, they deserved to suffer the consequences. Now we see that these errors aren't a function of bad character, but of our shared cognitive inheritance. The proper reaction is not blame, but an impulse to help one another.
That's what the government is supposed to do, help us get where we want to go. It's not always worth it to intervene, but sometimes, where the costs are small and the benefit is large, it is. That's why we have prescriptions for medicine. And that's why, as irritating as it may initially feel, the soda regulation is a good idea. It's hard to give up the idea of ourselves as completely rational. We feel as if we lose some dignity. But that's the way it is, and there's no dignity in clinging to an illusion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



816 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Anger in Wake of Marlins' Stadium Deal Threatens Dolphins' Renovation Plan

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Carlos Gimenez does not mind being a killjoy when it comes to stadiums.
When he was a Miami-Dade County commissioner in 2009, he opposed public financing for the Marlins' new baseball stadium, a deal considered by many to be one of the worst giveaways in sports. Now the county's mayor, he is taking a wary approach to a proposal to use $200 million in taxes to help the Dolphins renovate their stadium.
Never mind that the Dolphins are asking for one-third as much money as the Marlins, and that they promise to pay half the cost. Never mind, too, that the renovations could help the Dolphins land another Super Bowl that could potentially attract hundreds of millions of dollars to South Florida.
The trouble, Gimenez said, is that voters are still angry that lawmakers agreed to use taxes to pay for three-quarters of the Marlins' stadium, and that the Marlins and their owner, Jeffrey Loria, repaid the favor by trading away many of their best players within a year of moving into their new home. The deal became so toxic that it prompted the scrutiny of federal regulators and was one reason the previous mayor lost his job. 
''There's a much more tangible public benefit'' to the Dolphins' proposal, Gimenez said in an interview recently. ''But the Marlins' stadium has created such an adverse appetite for another deal because the Marlins have really poisoned the well.''
The Marlins' deal, in fact, has turned Miami into a case study on sports financing and ground zero for an ad hoc insurrection against publicly financed stadiums. The blowback may doom the Dolphins' bid to host Super Bowl L or LI, too. On May 22, the N.F.L. owners will decide whether the Dolphins or the San Francisco 49ers will host Super Bowl L in 2016; the loser will face the Houston Texans for the right to host the next Super Bowl.
Ten Super Bowls have been played in Miami, making it the sentimental favorite for the golden anniversary game. But Sun Life Stadium, the 26-year-old home of the Dolphins, is considered antiquated by N.F.L. standards. The 49ers will move into a new $1.2 billion stadium next year, and Reliant Stadium in Houston has a retractable roof.
The N.F.L. has said it is neutral in the contest, but Greg Aiello, a league spokesman, acknowledged that ''a comprehensive overhaul of the stadium would undoubtedly put South Florida in a stronger position to compete for a Super Bowl.''
In their pitch to persuade the state and the county to pay for half of the $400 million project, the Dolphins have said that the stadium would include a canopy over the fans to protect them from the rain and sun, new seats and video boards and improved concourses. The improvements, they say, would help attract additional college bowl games and create 4,000 new jobs.
State lawmakers are now considering whether to exempt the Dolphins from $90 million in state income tax over 30 years and permit Miami-Dade County to raise its hotel bed tax by 1 percentage point to cover the balance of the public share of the stadium deal.
Their plan might have received a warmer welcome if it had not come so soon after the Marlins moved into their stadium and dismantled their team. As of Thursday, the bill still had to pass through two more committees in the state assembly and one more committee in the state senate before it could be brought to the floor for a vote. Gov. Rick Scott has not clearly indicated whether he will sign the bill if it reaches his desk.
Many local politicians remain skittish about supporting the use of taxes to pay for sports facilities. This month, three state representatives from Miami-Dade wrote in The Miami Herald that the proposed stadium deal was ''a trick play'' and, referring to the Dolphins' owner, Stephen Ross, ''simply a sham designed to increase Ross's shareholder value of the Dolphins franchise.''
Other critics are more strident. Norman Braman, a former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles who lives in Florida and opposed the public financing of the Marlins' stadium, said that Ross should pay for the renovations because he was the one who would benefit the most from them.
''If he's improving his asset, let him pay for it,'' Braman said, adding that officials in Miami-Dade should insist that the Dolphins open their books before they consider investing in the team's stadium. ''It's welfare for a multimillionaire with Loria, and with Ross it's welfare for billionaires.''
Gimenez has insisted that the county not assume any liability for the cost of the renovations, and he has asked several deputies to calculate the public benefits of helping the Dolphins. He has also turned the tables on the N.F.L. by suggesting that he would support a deal only if there were more certainty that Miami would be awarded Super Bowl L, something the league is unlikely to offer. Even assuming the state signs off on a deal, Gimenez must hold a countywide vote on the bed tax hike, something that did not happen when the Marlins' deal was approved in 2009. The mayor needs at least 45 days to prepare for an election, not including the time it takes the county commissioners to haggle over the language in the referendum.
If the bill is not approved by the state in the coming weeks, Gimenez will not have enough time to hold a special election (which he said would cost as much as $5 million) before the N.F.L. owners vote on which city hosts Super Bowl L and LI. He said he would not hold the referendum without state approval first. Gimenez has asked the Florida Division of Elections if the Dolphins can cover the roughly $5 million it will cost to hold the referendum, something the Dolphins are willing to do.
The Dolphins have pointed to their own market research that shows that there is broad support for their project. But a survey of 1,000 likely voters in Miami-Dade by Dario Moreno, a professor at Florida International University, showed that 73 percent opposed increasing the bed tax and giving the Dolphins sales tax rebates.
''One of the reasons people were so against it is because of the bad taste of the Marlins' deal, and the Dolphins have had a hard time distinguishing themselves from the Marlins,'' said Moreno, who added that the Dolphins' timing was ''a train wreck.''
He also said the team had been heavy-handed in arguing its case. Mike Dee, the club president, was widely criticized for telling Michael Putney, a television reporter in Miami, that ''just because someone is wealthy enough doesn't mean that you should invest money in a way that is unwise.''
Through a spokesman, Dee declined to comment for this article, citing the continuing negotiations with the county. But the Dolphins have tried to distance themselves from the Marlins.
''We shouldn't let the Marlins situation kill the potential for a good deal where at least a majority of the cost is paid from private sources and more than 4,000 local jobs are created,'' the Dolphins wrote in a release announcing their plans.
Given the economics of N.F.L. stadiums, the Dolphins are seeking what their rivals have received. This month, Atlanta promised to pay $200 million toward a new stadium for the Falcons, whose current home is barely two decades old. The Vikings won larger concessions from Minneapolis and Minnesota. New York State and Erie County agreed to pay $95 million to upgrade Ralph Wilson Stadium, the Buffalo Bills' home.
The San Diego Chargers, the Jacksonville Jaguars and the St. Louis Rams are seeking new stadiums or renovations, too.
Critics often argue that taxes should not be used to help private enterprises when governments are having a hard time paying for hospitals, schools and law enforcement. But politicians, chastened by deals like what the Marlins received, are starting to question not just the justification for the financing, but also the need for stadium improvements.
Gimenez said he wondered whether the lack of a roof at Sun Life Stadium was really what was preventing Miami from landing another title game. After all, he said, the Super Bowl will be held at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miami-Dade County's mayor, Carlos Gimenez, said the Marlins' deal had ''poisoned the well'' on public financing of stadiums. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); DISMISSALS (66%); CASE STUDIES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



817 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Look at Deals by Generic and Branded Drug Makers

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just about anyone who has gone to a pharmacy and paid for a prescription knows that a generic copy costs much less than the brand-name drug. The makers of those two versions of a drug, therefore, usually compete fiercely for market share and profits.
But at the Supreme Court on Monday, the generic and the brand-name drug companies will be on the same side, arguing against the federal government in the legal equivalent of a heavyweight title bout. 
The case, Federal Trade Commission v. Actavis, No. 12-416, centers on whether the maker of a brand-name drug can pay a generic-drug company to keep the generic version off the market. Based on antitrust law, the obvious answer would seem to be no, the view voiced by the government and most recently upheld by a federal appeals court.
At least three other federal appeals courts have previously said those payments are legal, however, when made under the settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit. Those courts sided with drug company arguments that the payments are what Congress intended in setting up guidelines to encourage the production of generic drugs.
The question before the justices pits a company's constitutional right to protect its intellectual property -- through reliance on a patent that excludes competitors -- against antitrust law, which holds that a company cannot unfairly exclude others from legitimately entering a business with a rival product.
When the court rules later this year, its answer could have a sweeping effect on one of the largest segments of the nation's economy and an industry that touches the wallets of nearly every American.
''Everybody wants to believe that the big drug companies are bad, that they're giving us these piles of money to stay off the market,'' said Paul M. Bisaro, chief executive of Actavis, whose generic version of AndroGel, a testosterone replacement therapy, is the subject of the case. ''But these payments have saved consumers billions and billions of dollars.''
The agency says in its court briefs that the opposite is true: the payment ''allows the brand-name manufacturer to co-opt its rival by sharing the monopoly profits that result from an artificially prolonged period of market exclusivity.''
The stakes in the dispute are huge. Pharmaceutical sales in the United States totaled roughly $320 billion in 2011, according to IMS Health, a research company whose statistics the agency cites in its arguments.
Brand-name drugs accounted for only 18 percent of the total prescriptions written by doctors in 2011 but 73 percent of consumer spending, IMS reported. When a generic version of a brand-name drug comes onto the market, the F.T.C. said, it costs about 15 percent of the original, causing the brand-name drug maker to quickly lose about 90 percent of its market share.
Congress saw the difference that generic drugs could make in health care spending when in 1984 it passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act.
That law, together with amendments passed roughly 20 years later, encouraged generic drug makers to challenge the patents protecting lucrative brand-name drugs.
But a loophole in the law has turned the theory of patent infringement on its head, allowing a brand-name company to pay the generic drug maker to keep its low-price version off the market for a given number of years. That is the opposite of how a patent-infringement case is usually settled, with the generic infringer paying the brand-name patent holder. Thus, the deals are known as ''reverse payment'' settlements.
In 2000, Solvay Pharmaceuticals received approval from the Food and Drug Administration to sell AndroGel to treat age-related testosterone deficiency. In January 2003, it received a patent on the formulation and method of using AndroGel. The patent expires in 2020.
In May 2003, Actavis, formerly known as Watson Pharmaceuticals, sought F.D.A. approval to sell a generic version of AndroGel. Solvay filed a patent infringement suit against Actavis in August 2003, and the two companies began preparing for litigation.
In January 2006, the F.D.A. approved Actavis's generic version for marketing, but the patent lawsuit was still pending. Had Actavis begun selling its copy and later been judged in court to have infringed Solvay's patent, Actavis could be liable for significant monetary damages.
So in September 2006, the two companies settled the dispute. Actavis agreed to provide some marketing help to Solvay in exchange for an annual payment of about $20 million to $30 million and an agreement to keep the generic version off the market until 2015.
Does that mean that Solvay was buying its continued monopoly on the drug? The F.T.C. says yes: Actavis could have begun selling its generic version in 2006 rather than 2015, which would have significantly lowered the price to consumers much sooner. The agreement between the companies was what the agency calls a ''pay for delay'' deal.
But the drug companies argued that the agreement actually allows the generic version to come to market five years earlier than it otherwise would -- in 2015 rather than 2020, when the Solvay patent expires. That, they say, gives consumers five years more of lower generic pricing than they would otherwise have.
The drug companies' approach is known as the ''scope of the patent'' method because, as some courts have held, the brand-name company gets nothing from the agreement beyond what it would have if its patent were valid and upheld -- which is what the law requires courts to assume would happen if an infringement case were litigated.
But the courts have not agreed on whether the reverse payments are legal. The Supreme Court, therefore, might try to consider what Congress intended.
Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who was one of the two principal sponsors of the drug act, weighed in with his own friend-of-the-court brief, saying the decisions upholding reverse payments turn the legislation ''on its head.''
The purpose, Mr. Waxman wrote, was to empower generic drug companies and ''to encourage them to enter the market, not to authorize them to use their increased leverage to exact a share of brand-name drug owners' monopoly profits in return for staying out of the market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul M. Bisaro, chief executive of Actavis. The company's settlement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals regarding a generic version of AndroGel, right, is the subject of a Supreme Court case. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARIO CANTATORE/NYSE EURONEXT
 PR NEWSFOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC PRODUCTS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); BRANDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PATENT LAW (76%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); PATENTS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: PAUL M BISARO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



818 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking U.S. Security Strategy

BYLINE: By HANS BINNENDIJK

 BODY:
The new U.S. defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, has asked the Pentagon to review U.S. military strategy in light of budget cuts brought on by deficit reduction and sequestration. That process will eventually draw in Secretary of State John Kerry and will bear the imprint of both new members of President Obama's Cabinet. The results will be incorporated into a new national security strategy due later this year that could yield greater burden-sharing for America's allies and partners.
Kerry and Hagel both served on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with Obama and Vice President Joe Biden. Both men were wounded in Vietnam and understand the cost of combat. Both have strong ties to Europe and an inclination to exploit diplomacy to the full extent before turning to military force. Their voices will be heard. 
Some of the pieces of a new national security strategy are already on the table from Obama's first term. Two U.S. ground wars -- in Iraq and Afghanistan -- are or will be over, leaving a much smaller U.S. footprint in the region. Al Qaeda is still active but in retreat. Re-sets with potential and real adversaries generally have not gone well but in most cases talks continue. A new strategic concept adopted by NATO has revitalized the alliance. Obama's war strategy on Libya was derisively called ''leading from behind,'' but it worked. China remains a ''frenemy''; its rise has triggered a U.S. pivot to Asia.
To set the stage for a new strategy, the National Intelligence Council recently published ''Global Trends 2030,'' which envisions a world of diffused power shifting increasingly to the East and South; empowerment of new actors, some of whom will have access to disruptive technologies; and a neo-Malthusian mix of demographic trends and greater resource requirements that could make the world more dangerous. For the first time in the history of these reports, it includes the future U.S. strategic posture as a potential global game changer.
A new strategy should not be budget-driven, but it will be budget-influenced. Savings from the termination of two wars are not being reinvested in the military; they will be a peace dividend. Sequestration may cut significantly below that peace dividend.
In short, the United States faces a more dangerous world with fewer national security resources. The new U.S. strategy will either need to retrench and absorb greater risk or develop more robust global partnerships to pick up the slack.
Several prominent thinkers are proposing a strategy called offshore balancing, which involves a degree of retrenchment. It would exert U.S. influence through regional powers and withdraw most U.S. ground forces from Europe and the Middle East. Critics of offshore balancing argue that it would result in U.S. disengagement and possible collapse of U.S. alliances.
An alternative approach more likely to capture the views of Kerry and Hagel is forward-partnering. Developed at the National Defense University, the approach would continue to stress U.S. forward-force deployments but with a new purpose: to enable America's global partners to operate together with U.S. forces and to encourage partners to take the lead in their own neighborhoods.
This fits with the flow of previous strategies: During the Cold War the United States ''contained'' enemies to protect partners; during the Clinton administration the U.S. ''enlarged'' the number of democratic partners, and now the U.S. would ''enable'' partners to help us maintain global stability.
The notion of enabled partnerships is taking hold in Washington. In Jakarta last week, Deputy Defense Secretary Ash Carter stressed the importance of revitalizing defense partnerships as Washington pivots to Asia.
America's partners in this strategy would be its traditional European and Asian allies, plus emerging democracies like Brazil, India and Indonesia. Regional organizations such as the African Union, the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council would form natural partnerships for regional operations.
Forward-partnering would envision a global division of labor. Hagel's Defense Department would focus on preparing for major combat operations, counterterrorism and special operations. U.S. forces would also work with partners to ensure maximum military interoperability and to provide military enablers such as air-to-air refueling that are unavailable to them.
Kerry's State Department would seek to encourage partners to police their own neighborhoods and to concentrate more on stabilization operations. In exchange, partners would have a greater voice in global decision making. This is not a mission improbable; the operations in Libya and Mali serve as models.
Europe is also slashing defense budgets, so NATO ''smart-defense'' efforts to share weapons will need to be put on steroids. America's Asian allies need to act more multilaterally. U.S. military assistance and training for poorer partners would increase significantly. Free trade arrangements proposed for Asia and Europe would cement the forward-partnering strategy by bolstering political ties with like-minded partners and by strengthening their economies.
The United States needs to rebalance without retreating. Remaining in a forward posture in order to enable partners to share greater responsibilities meets that requirement.
Hans Binnendijk drafted several national security strategies while serving as a senior director in the Clinton administration's National Security Council. He is currently a senior fellow at Johns Hopkins' Center for Transatlantic Relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRENDS (87%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHUCK HAGEL (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VIET NAM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



819 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Canada Aims to Woo International Students

BYLINE: By ELAINE SMITH

 BODY:
TORONTO -- The number of college and university students studying internationally has grown more than fourfold since 1975 -- and Canada wants a larger share of that market.
Approximately 3.7 million students sought post-secondary education outside their home countries in 2009, compared with 800,000 in 1975, according to Unesco and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This year, the number of international students in Canada exceeded 100,000 for the first time -- triple the number who studied there in 2000.
Edward Fast, the Canadian minister of international trade and for the Pacific Gateway, released a report by a government panel in August that recommended that Canada double its number of international students by 2022. It called international education ''the driver for economic prosperity and social progress.''
''Last year, international students contributed more than 8 billion dollars to Canada's economy,'' Mr. Fast said by e-mail, referencing an amount equal to about $7.8 billion at current rates. ''They supported 86,000 Canadian jobs.'' 
''But the benefits transcend economics as well,'' he added. ''They're helping us build a diverse, skilled and globally focused workforce.''
''They're a vital link as we create the people-to-people ties that will grow our partnerships with countries around the world. As Canadians do more business abroad, we need these kinds of connections,'' he said.
Kelly Zhong, a native of Nanjing, China, is a fourth-year economics and statistics student at the University of Toronto who volunteers at its Center for International Education. She also did some off-campus work during the summer.
Her intention is to stay in Canada after graduation, first to earn a master's degree, and then to gain work experience. ''By that time, I will have been here for five years, so I'll know more about the Canadian job market than the job market in China,'' she said.
''Studying abroad is a very good opportunity to experience different things, not only culturally, but different methods of learning,'' she said.
That is also true outside the classroom. ''We learn practical skills like how to live on our own and how to cook -- real life skills,'' she said. ''I could see myself change a lot and improve a lot.''
There is stiff competition among major English-speaking countries for overseas talent who also generally pay full tuition -- particularly as universities face budget cuts.
''When international students think about where to go, our main competition is the U.S., the U.K. and Australia,'' said Paul Davidson, president of the Association of Colleges and Universities of Canada. ''We must get Canada on the list of places people consider.''
He added that about 8 percent of Canadian students were from overseas, which is about double the percentage in the United States.
''Canadian universities are recognizing what it takes to recruit internationally,'' Mr. Davidson said. ''We need a strong national brand proposition, because when international students are choosing a university, they look at the country first, the kind of institution second and the kind of program third.''
''Since we're a smaller country, they recognize we all have to work together,'' he said, referring to universities.
Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia lead the way in recruiting international students to Canada. The University of Toronto, in Ontario, is home to 11,500 international students -- the largest number in the country -- according to its Center for International Education.
''International students bring cultural and academic diversity to our university,'' said Miranda Cheng, director of the center. ''We always want the best and brightest students, and international students bring such richness to our classrooms.''
She credits policies that make it easier to recruit overseas. ''The government of Canada really assists the post-secondary sector with its fairly progressive policies with regard to working off campus and post-graduation work,'' she said. ''They are helping to put Canada on the map.''
International students are allowed to seek part-time employment off campus after six months of full-time study, as a way to help them defray costs. They can also obtain foreign work credentials: After earning a four-year undergraduate degree, they can apply to work in Canada for up to three years.
Other nations are not as generous: In the United States, international students are eligible to work only on campus, and many struggle to stay in the country after graduation. Tough visa rules have led to a foreign student ''brain drain,'' prompting both lawmakers and members of the technology industry to appeal for a change in immigration law.
In Britain, international students can work no more than 10 hours a week and need an endorsement from their school to work after graduation. Its government came under fire over what critics called an overzealous immigration crackdown after London Metropolitan University was stripped of its right to host non-E.U. students, leaving thousands in limbo last autumn. For a while, it seemed as though those who could not quickly secure school space would face deportation.
Overseas study is generally expensive. As with most British, Australian and state-funded U.S. universities, most Canadian institutions have one rate for domestic students and a much higher one for international students.
In Ontario and British Columbia, provincial governments give universities financial assistance for domestic students, but not for their international counterparts -- which is reflected in tuition.
A Canadian undergraduate business student at the University of Toronto would pay 14,259 Canadian dollars, while an overseas counterpart would pay 32,075 dollars -- or $13,900 and $31,200 -- per year.
This puts Canada in the same ballpark as other major English-speaking nations, at least in terms of cost. An international student at Harvard would pay $37,576. One at Cambridge in Britain would pay £20,790, or $31,399. And one at the University of Melbourne would pay 33,344 Australian dollars, or $34,791.
But the cost is not stopping international students, as an increasing number choose to cross borders to study.
''We don't live in a bordered world anymore, so students must be able to move easily across those borders,'' said Karen McKellin, the executive director of the international student initiative at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver.
At U.B.C., 14 percent of the student body -- or about 8,400 students -- comes from outside Canada. The largest numbers come from China, the United States and South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (92%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TUITION FEES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (58%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); JIANGSU, CHINA (57%); EAST CHINA (54%) CANADA (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



820 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: More Young Japanese Heading Abroad to Study

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Addressing a room of university students, Aya Kikuchi, a counselor, dished out tips for students bound for Canada. ''One cultural thing to note is that there is a strong 'ladies first' orientation there,'' she said at a meeting organized by Ryugaku Journal, an overseas study agency.
''So, people might open the door for you. Just say thanks and accept it,'' she said, warning against the Japanese custom of yielding and hesitating when people offer help.
The orientation session for 80 eager students reflected a renewed interest among Japanese students for study-abroad programs, particularly among young women. 
While the number of overseas students from other major Asian countries like China and India has boomed, there was a precipitous decline in the number of Japanese studying abroad. According to figures from the government and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, 83,000 Japanese studied overseas in 2004, though that number dropped to fewer than 60,000 in 2009.
However, experts say the downward trend is reversing in Japan, partly because of demands by major employers, which are seeking to globalize.
The turning point was around autumn 2011, said Yukari Kato, executive vice president of Ryugaku Journal. ''The government was beginning to realize they must globalize their human talent, and companies like Rakuten and Uniqlo were introducing in-house English-language policies,'' she said, referring to a major online retailer and an internationally known clothing chain.
She added that employers were demanding solid foreign language skills and international experience.
Two trends stand out: One is that university students, eager to bolster their employability, are choosing short-term language programs in English-speaking countries like Australia and Canada. Another is the growing number of high school students looking to go to overseas.
Ryugaku Journal says the number of college students it arranged to send overseas rose 12 percent to 3,500 in 2012, while the number of high school students grew 94 percent.
Tatsu Hoshino, an independent study abroad counselor, said there were signs everywhere that more young Japanese were heading overseas -- except in data from the Ministry of Education, which are released a few years after the fact.
''The earthquake in March 2011 did not dampen the growth,'' he said, referring to the quake that was followed by a devastating tsunami and nuclear accident. ''By contrast, as corporations grew more active internationally, students also began to look abroad.''
While more Japanese students still go to the United States and China, Canada has emerged as a new popular destination for language study, college and working holidays. According to the Canadian Embassy in Tokyo, the number of student participants in study-abroad fairs at the embassy jumped to 3,643 in 2012, from 2,375 in 2010.
''Quite frankly Japanese have a pretty good opinion of Canada, I think,'' Gerald Keddy, parliamentary secretary to the minister of international trade, said by telephone from Ottawa. ''They see us as neighbors of the United States but not American.''
Canada is safer and more multicultural and offers greater flexibility on visas and immigration, he said, adding, ''We have done a great job of attracting students and allowing them to become part of Canadian society by allowing them to work while studying here.''
Japanese students can stay, study and travel in Canada without a visa for as long as six months and may opt for a holiday working visa that is good for a year.
Ami Katayanagi, a 21-year-old junior at a Tokyo college, called work opportunities a ''major determinant'' when she was planning to study abroad. Her 10-month stay in Vancouver will start with language training, followed by an internship at a hotel or another service outlet.
Personal security has also been a concern among Japanese students, particularly after recent school shootings in the United States. ''My parents were telling me, 'Oh, please assure us that you are going to be in a safe place,''' Ms. Katayanagi said.
''Our streets are extremely safe. Our communities are extremely safe. Most Canadians are very friendly,'' Mr. Keddy said. ''If you are a Japanese parent and if you are thinking of your child going for a foreign education for whatever reason, what is happening in the U.S., it would be very difficult, I think, in clear conscience to send your child there.''
According to the Canadian government, 3,546 Japanese students required a study visa in 2011, up from 3,238 in 2010.
''Generally, people feel greater affinity with Canada, and perhaps stereotypically, people think that English spoken there is more elegant,'' said Ms. Kato of Ryugaku Journal. ''Also, the local institutions often have Japanese student adviser/counselor on the site.''
The number of Japanese students going to the United States has also risen recently, after having fallen sharply over the past decade and a half.
The number of Japanese students studying on U.S. campuses hit a peak of 47,000 in 1997, and then fell to 19,000 in 2011, according to Institute of International Education, a nonprofit U.S. organization.
But the number of new visas issued by the U.S. State Department to Japanese students rose 10 percent to 18,668 in 2012, from 16,811 in 2011.
Experts say there is a clear gender gap among Japanese students looking to go overseas.
''Overwhelmingly, it is female students who show interest,'' said Kageaki Kajiwara, dean of the School of Asia 21 at Kokushikan University in Tokyo. ''Unfortunately, there is a disparity in career opportunities available in this male-dominated society, and opportunities might be greater overseas for Japanese women.''
Marin Nakazawa, a sophomore at Sophia University in Tokyo, is one of them. ''I don't like to be like those ladies I grew up with in my hometown,'' she said of a town in Shiga Prefecture near Osaka. ''They don't know the world outside their own.''
Ms. Nakazawa, who is due to study at Tsinghua University in Beijing as an exchange student in the autumn, is eager to learn Chinese and one day help her father's watch-retailing business move into the Chinese market. ''I want to see for myself what it's like to be there in China.''
Japanese employers are stepping up their efforts to recruit young Japanese with international skills, who are still rare on the job market.
Daisuke Watanabe, director of global recruitment and marketing at Disco Inc., which organizes international career fairs for students studying overseas, said the number of Japanese companies that participated in the annual Boston Career Forum, for those pursuing North American degrees, rose to 191 in 2012, from 171 in 2011. New participants included DeNA and Gree, leading mobile gaming companies, and Uniqlo. ''These companies are very active in conducting recruitment'' internationally, he said.
It is not yet clear whether the inward-looking mind-set prevalent among young Japanese -- partly a result of growing complacency in an affluent society -- will be reversed for real. ''I am not sure if these students are turning into the type of people corporations want to hire,'' Mr. Watanabe said. ''The current turnaround mostly involves students going overseas for a short-term study. They are doing that because they are worried about getting jobs.''
A small but growing number of high school students are hoping to gain overseas university degrees. Benesse, an education company that offers counseling and tutoring for the SAT and English as a foreign language, began a program in 2008 to help high school students prepare for college overseas. Interest has peaked in the past few years, according to Masanori Fujii, chief of Benesse's global business development unit. The number of Benesse clients who ended up at overseas universities rose to 135 in 2012, from 25 in 2011. This year, more than 200 students are likely to leave for overseas schools, Mr. Fujii said.
Benesse's Route H program is for students who wish to go to top universities like Harvard and Yale. Four graduates of the program ended up at Harvard between 2010 and 2012.
Mr. Fujii said that that growing minority reflected a broader change in Japan. Previously, all elite students had to worry about was getting into the University of Tokyo, which would put them on track to a career with a top Japanese employer. ''People are questioning the existing order,'' he said. ''They are asking themselves, 'What's going on?'''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (91%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); TRENDS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (74%); STATISTICS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); RETAILERS (64%); TSUNAMIS (60%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (60%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (50%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) CANADA (95%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



821 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: For Clinton, 2016 Vote Is Near and Far

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Last week, when Hillary Rodham Clinton released a video announcing her support for gay marriage, Twitter went wild.
It was totally expected -- her husband and daughter had taken the same position months earlier -- and did not have as much political import as the announcement this month by Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, that he now favors same-sex marriage.
The rules are different for Mrs. Clinton. No nonincumbent in the history of contemporary U.S. presidential politics ever looked so formidable three years before an election. 
Ask almost any Democrat and the automatic assumption is that Mrs. Clinton will be the party's 2016 nominee; a top West Virginia Democrat says she would carry that state, which President Barack Obama lost, 62 percent to 35 percent, in 2012. Ask most Republicans who has the best shot to be the 45th president, and they will acknowledge it is Mrs. Clinton.
In conversations last week with more than half a dozen Clinton associates -- people who know her very well politically or personally -- there was a consensus: She is more likely to run than not. The presidential bug has not left her, and she passionately wants to see a female president. Still, her candidacy is not a foregone conclusion; those who say they know, do not; and there are several pressing questions outstanding.
First is her health. She just went through a fairly serious illness in December that sidelined her for a month. She developed a blood clot, an ailment she had suffered at least once before. Doctors who stress that they have no knowledge of her particular condition say a pattern of clots is worrisome.
She will turn 69 a week before the 2016 election -- younger than Ronald Reagan was in 1980 or John McCain in 2008, and questions about her age reflect sexism. But questions about whether she can still bring her extraordinary vibrancy to any political task do not.
Then there is the health of the country in a few years. If the economy continues to improve and the world is relatively stable, her credentials to succeed and expand on Mr. Obama's record, to build a more prosperous middle class and enhance America's global standing, will be potent.
However, if the world economy deteriorates and U.S. unemployment hits double digits again, or if there is a conflict in the Middle East or on the Korean Peninsula, all bets are off.
Over the past 60 years, only once -- in 1988 -- has an incumbent party been given more than eight consecutive years in the White House.
Finally, what did she learn from the 2008 primary run? It was a disaster. She sought to inherit the nomination rather than capture it. She ran as a tough, hawkish, establishment candidate when most Democrats wanted an antiwar, anti-establishment nominee. Her campaign dissolved into chaos as she stubbornly refused to change. Ultimately, she dumped her campaign manager and the chief strategist of the flawed effort; but it was too late.
Would she pick better people next time and master the profound changes in political elections? She might start with Sasha Issenberg's book ''Victory Lab,'' which describes the analytical revolution in U.S. politics. In 1991, there was a so-called Carville primary, as Democratic contenders vied for the services of the hottest political consultant, James Carville.
The equivalent this time might be a Teddy Goff primary, to earn the assistance of the 27-year-old digital wunderkind who directed social media for the Obama campaign.
In addition, unlike in 2008, Mrs. Clinton would have to adopt a strategy to fit the times. There is no need for her to rush.
She is selectively staying in touch with key players and is expected to write a book, settle into a role at a nonprofit organization focusing on global and domestic issues of prime concern, and get some rest.
One of the reasons Democrats are so eager for Mrs. Clinton to run is that they have a weak bench. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., popular within the party and a loyal and important Obama lieutenant, will be almost 74 on Election Day 2016. That is four years older than Mr. Reagan was in 1980, when he was the oldest man ever elected president.
The animosity that Governor Andrew M. Cuomo of New York has incurred from more than a few national Democrats, and his controlling, secretive ways, would be a challenge in a national campaign. Governor Martin O'Malley of Maryland, attractive and articulate, does not seem ready for prime time.
Democrats have a long tradition of upending front-runners by picking nominees like George S. McGovern, Jimmy Carter and Mr. Obama. Hierarchical Republicans usually go with the establishment candidate. Thus, the cliché that Republicans like to fall in line and Democrats like to fall in love.
With Mrs. Clinton -- who has rebounded from a defeat better than any recent presidential aspirant, including Mr. Reagan post-1976 -- Democrats want to fall in line. Republicans, meanwhile, are desperate to find a candidate to love.
There are more than 1,000 days to go before any votes are cast. Another cliché is more telling: In politics, that is an eternity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ROB PORTMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



822 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Obama Group Enters Immigration Fray

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Organizing for Action, the political group that grew out of President Obama's successful re-election campaign machinery, will jump into the immigration debate this week with an aggressive online effort to highlight the personal stories of immigrants.
The group has collected 7,000 stories from supporters, some of whom entered the country illegally or were brought as young children by their parents. Organizers say they will distribute the stories using Twitter, Facebook and blogs beginning this week. 
The idea, officials with the group said, is to demonstrate support for efforts in Congress to overhaul immigration laws in ways that would provide 11 million illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship.
That legislative effort, which Mr. Obama backs, is nearing a key moment. Early next month, a bipartisan group of eight senators is expected to unveil a bill in the hope that it will win support from members of both parties in the House and the Senate.
''It is clear that America's immigration system is broken, with so many employers that game the system by hiring undocumented workers and 11 million people living in the shadows,'' said Jon Carson, the executive director of Organizing for Action and a former director of the White House Office of Public Engagement. ''Neither is good for the economy or the country.''
Opponents of an immigration overhaul say they are counting on conservative activists to rise up in anger once the Senate legislation is unveiled. One group has said it will hold a two-day conference for conservative radio talk show hosts next month to encourage opposition to the legislation.
In 2007, the last time Congress considered an immigration overhaul, conservatives hammered lawmakers at town-hall-style meetings and on talk radio. Proponents of the 2007 legislation eventually gave up.
The goal of Organizing for Action's initiative is to counter any opposition by conservatives to the current legislative effort with support from around the country.
''Our supporters know it is time to fix the system that requires responsibility from everyone -- both from the workers here that are undocumented and those who hire them -- a system that guarantees that everyone is playing by the same rules,'' Mr. Carson said.
The stories distributed by Organizing for Action were collected after an e-mail request to Mr. Obama's supporters. Organizers said they would begin sending more e-mails to the list this week, asking for additional personal statements. Some of the people will be videotaped telling their stories for distribution via YouTube and Twitter.
One supporter describes his father's illegal entry into the United States from Mexico. The father received legal status in 1986, the last time that Congress passed legislation to address undocumented workers.
''Almost 30 years ago, he came into this country with hardly anything to his name,'' the supporter, Victor Hugo, says in one of the stories on the group's Web site. ''Now my father is part of family that is driven and committed to making the most of the opportunities given to them by this country.''
Starting early next month, Organizing for Action will move beyond the online effort to organize its supporters at events around the country. They will include phone banks for supporters to call members of Congress, press events, community rallies and letter-writing parties, officials said. The events will run from April 1 to April 7, a week ahead of the unveiling of the Senate immigration plan.
Officials at Organizing for Action said they would also continue to hold weekly conference calls with people who are interested in getting more information about how to support the immigration effort. A conference call on immigration last week drew 2,229 participants, organizers said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); CHILDREN (71%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



823 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Hot Money Blues

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Whatever the final outcome in the Cyprus crisis -- we know it's going to be ugly; we just don't know exactly what form the ugliness will take -- one thing seems certain: for the time being, and probably for years to come, the island nation will have to maintain fairly draconian controls on the movement of capital in and out of the country. In fact, controls may well be in place by the time you read this. And that's not all: Depending on exactly how this plays out, Cypriot capital controls may well have the blessing of the International Monetary Fund, which has already supported such controls in Iceland.
That's quite a remarkable development. It will mark the end of an era for Cyprus, which has in effect spent the past decade advertising itself as a place where wealthy individuals who want to avoid taxes and scrutiny can safely park their money, no questions asked. But it may also mark at least the beginning of the end for something much bigger: the era when unrestricted movement of capital was taken as a desirable norm around the world. 
It wasn't always thus. In the first couple of decades after World War II, limits on cross-border money flows were widely considered good policy; they were more or less universal in poorer nations, and present in a majority of richer countries too. Britain, for example, limited overseas investments by its residents until 1979; other advanced countries maintained restrictions into the 1980s. Even the United States briefly limited capital outflows during the 1960s.
Over time, however, these restrictions fell out of fashion. To some extent this reflected the fact that capital controls have potential costs: they impose extra burdens of paperwork, they make business operations more difficult, and conventional economic analysis says that they should have a negative impact on growth (although this effect is hard to find in the numbers). But it also reflected the rise of free-market ideology, the assumption that if financial markets want to move money across borders, there must be a good reason, and bureaucrats shouldn't stand in their way.
As a result, countries that did step in to limit capital flows -- like Malaysia, which imposed what amounted to a curfew on capital flight in 1998 -- were treated almost as pariahs. Surely they would be punished for defying the gods of the market!
But the truth, hard as it may be for ideologues to accept, is that unrestricted movement of capital is looking more and more like a failed experiment.
It's hard to imagine now, but for more than three decades after World War II financial crises of the kind we've lately become so familiar with hardly ever happened. Since 1980, however, the roster has been impressive: Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Chile in 1982. Sweden and Finland in 1991. Mexico again in 1995. Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Korea in 1998. Argentina again in 2002. And, of course, the more recent run of disasters: Iceland, Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Cyprus.
What's the common theme in these episodes? Conventional wisdom blames fiscal profligacy -- but in this whole list, that story fits only one country, Greece. Runaway bankers are a better story; they played a role in a number of these crises, from Chile to Sweden to Cyprus. But the best predictor of crisis is large inflows of foreign money: in all but a couple of the cases I just mentioned, the foundation for crisis was laid by a rush of foreign investors into a country, followed by a sudden rush out.
I am, of course, not the first person to notice the correlation between the freeing up of global capital and the proliferation of financial crises; Harvard's Dani Rodrik began banging this drum back in the 1990s. Until recently, however, it was possible to argue that the crisis problem was restricted to poorer nations, that wealthy economies were somehow immune to being whipsawed by love-'em-and-leave-'em global investors. That was a comforting thought -- but Europe's travails demonstrate that it was wishful thinking.
And it's not just Europe. In the last decade America, too, experienced a huge housing bubble fed by foreign money, followed by a nasty hangover after the bubble burst. The damage was mitigated by the fact that we borrowed in our own currency, but it's still our worst crisis since the 1930s.
Now what? I don't expect to see a wholesale, sudden rejection of the idea that money should be free to go wherever it wants, whenever it wants. There may well, however, be a process of erosion, as governments intervene to limit both the pace at which money comes in and the rate at which it goes out. Global capitalism is, arguably, on track to become substantially less global.
And that's O.K. Right now, the bad old days when it wasn't that easy to move lots of money across borders are looking pretty good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ICELAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



824 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: The Credit-History Pariah Class

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Research has shown that someone with a poor credit history is not automatically a poor job prospect. Nevertheless, millions of Americans who have emerged from the recession with medical debts or a record of late payments are at risk of being denied jobs by companies that use credit histories to screen applicants. Several states have placed limits on this practice. But until the federal government engages the issue more aggressively, employers will consign otherwise qualified applicants to a kind of pariah class that gets shut out of the job market. 
Many people have recovered from the recession and seen their credit ratings go up. But the proportion of people with poor ratings -- credit scores under 600 -- has grown from about 15 percent in the years before the recession to about 25 percent in 2011. This means nearly 45 million people could theoretically be exposed to unfair credit history checks.
Advocates of screening say that it provides insight into an applicant's character. But those who seek bankruptcy often do so because of unmanageable medical debt. A new study of nearly 1,000 low- and middle-income families by Demos, a research and policy group, suggests that most of those who suffered degraded credit ratings during the recession either lost their job, lacked medical insurance or incurred debt when they were injured or got sick. ''Poor credit,'' the study says, ''tells a story of medical misfortune far more convincingly than one of poor work habits.'' The study also underscored the fact that African-American families have been disproportionately affected. They had fewer assets to start with, and were easy targets for predatory subprime lenders who led them deeper into debt.
There are several possible steps to be taken. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which has sued two companies for using screening programs that had a disparate impact on minority applicants, could seek to ban the practice outright. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could require credit reporting agencies to promptly clear up old mistakes, instead of dragging out the corrections process for years, as happens now. The Federal Trade Commission should enforce a law that requires employers to notify job applicants when they are rejected for credit reasons, so they can dispute mistakes in the record.
But the real answer may be for Congress to say that except in clearly defined circumstances -- positions that require security clearance, for instance -- no worker should be turned away solely on the basis of credit history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); LITIGATION (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



825 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Willful Ignorance

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Automatic spending cuts are a mindless way to budget, and they will leave the nation in the dark. Here's how: Under the cuts, the Census Bureau budget will be $845 million, well below the Obama administration's $970 million request. That will force the bureau to delay completion of the Economic Census, an immense survey done every five years that provides the benchmark measurements for economic growth and other vital indicators, including inflation and productivity. Without such data, policy makers, business leaders, investors, economists and social researchers will be at a disadvantage. 
In fact, they already are. The last Economic Census was in 2007, which means that figures generated today are tied to data from before the recession. The responses to the 2012 survey would normally be analyzed by the fall of 2013. Under the budget cuts, the survey will not be finished until well into 2014.
Even then, it is unlikely to give a full picture of business ownership in America, including the types and numbers of businesses owned by veterans, women and minorities. Such detailed data collection is generally done late in the five-year cycle, which means that it may not be far enough along to finish under current constraints.
Without such specific data, there is no way to judge the performance of government efforts to broaden business opportunities, including loan programs and entrepreneurship training for veterans. Nor will it be possible to coherently analyze the problems of small businesses.
The cuts also come as the bureau is starting to test new methods for the 2020 decennial census, like using the Internet to replace expensive door-to-door surveying. In short, the cuts come just as the bureau's duties are ramping up. That is why the White House asked for extra money, and why the Republicans were wrong to deny it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BENCHMARKING (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); INTERNET & WWW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



826 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Infants Fed Solid Food Too Soon, C.D.C. Finds

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
Despite growing warnings from pediatricians about feeding newborns anything other than breast milk or formula, many mothers appear to be introducing solid food well before their babies' bodies can handle it, says a study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics.
In a national survey of 1,334 mothers, conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 40 percent said they gave their baby solid food before they were 4 months old, with 9 percent starting as early as 4 weeks. Doctors now recommend waiting until a baby is at least 6 months old. 
For at least 20 years, the American Academy of Pediatrics had advised against feeding babies solid food before they turned at least 4 months old. Last year, encouraged by growing evidence of the health benefits of breast milk, the group raised that age, saying babies should be fed nothing but breast milk for six months. When breast milk in not an option, formula is an acceptable alternative, the group says.
But the survey suggests that mothers are not aware of the recommendations or find them difficult to follow. Popular reasons for giving solid food to babies before 4 months included ''my baby is old enough,'' ''my baby seemed hungry,'' ''I wanted my baby to sleep longer at night'' and -- most alarming to researchers -- ''a doctor or health care professional said my baby should begin eating solid food.''
''Clearly we need better dissemination of the recommendations on solid food introduction,'' said Kelley Scanlon, an epidemiologist with the C.D.C. and an author of the study. ''Health care providers need to provide clear and accurate guidance, and then provide support to help parents carry out those recommended practices.''
The study suggested that economics were a factor in the decision to introduce solid food, with poorer women who saw formula as too expensive more likely to feed solids too soon. Women who were feeding their children exclusively formula or a mix of formula and breast milk were not only more likely to introduce solid food early, but to say their doctors gave them the go-ahead.
''It makes me want to know more about the other advice that those parents were getting on infant feeding,'' Dr. Scanlon said.
Further, the women in the survey who turned to solid food early were more likely to be young, less educated and unmarried. They also had lower levels of income or education, and were more likely to participate in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children.
While many pediatricians are sympathetic to the difficulties parents face feeding their child nothing but breast milk or formula for six months, they say little good can come from feeding solid food to a child before he or she is physically ready.
''When a baby is ready to start eating food, he will put his hands in his mouth, and you will see him actually making chewing motions,'' said Dr. T J Gold, a pediatrician with Tribeca Pediatrics in Brooklyn. ''At 2, 3 months, they can't even hold their heads up well, and they can't sit,'' making it difficult, if not dangerous, to put solid food in their mouths.
They also have yet to develop the proper gut bacteria that allow them to process solid food safely, potentially leading to gastroenteritis and diarrhea, Dr. Gold said. The early introduction of solid foods has also been linked to increased risk of obesity, diabetes, eczema and celiac disease.
One reason parents turn to solid food early is the persistence of myths about solid food helping babies sleep through the night or put on weight.
''That big fat bottle at the end of the night isn't why your baby is sleeping -- it's a skill you acquire,'' Dr. Gold said. ''And if you think giving your child more calories is going to help him gain weight, but it gives him more diarrhea, then he's not actually absorbing as much.''
But even parents who are aware of the guidelines can have trouble following them, particularly if they are struggling to buy enough formula to feed a rapidly growing child. ''The formula gets really expensive, especially in the 4-to-6-month window,'' Dr. Gold said. ''And if you have more than one child and you're already preparing food for the whole family, it's much easier to just start sweeping things off your plate.''
Pediatricians can help parents delay solid food by helping them better understand their baby's signals, Dr. Scanlon said. ''When the baby is fussy, they need to help them understand that doesn't necessarily mean they're hungry and need solid foods,'' she said.
Parents should also know the signs that their child is ready for solid food, like sitting up, being able to take food off a fork and not closing the mouth when food is offered, Dr. Scanlon said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); PEDIATRICS (90%); INFANT FORMULA (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (78%); WOMEN (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); BREASTFEEDING (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); NUTRITION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (58%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



827 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Moviegoers Welcoming Animation And Thriller

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Hollywood finally lured moviegoers out of their caves.
For the first time this year two movies arrived to $30 million or more in ticket sales in North America, giving studios hope that a dismal box-office stretch was behind them. ''The Croods,'' about a prehistoric family's road trip, took in an estimated $44.7 million over the weekend, easily enough for No. 1, while ''Olympus Has Fallen'' took in a stronger-than-expected $30.5 million, for second place.
Even ''Spring Breakers,'' Harmony Korine's lurid art-house tale of bikini-clad killers, lived up to its hype, taking in about $5 million in relatively limited national release. 
Still, moviegoing in the United States and Canada remains deeply troubled. Ticket sales for the year to date total $2.06 billion, a 13 percent decline from the same period a year ago, according to Paul Dergarabedian, a box-office analyst for Hollywood.com. Attendance has fallen 14 percent.
Star-packed movies like ''Gangster Squad'' and ''The Incredible Burt Wonderstone'' have arrived to virtual shrugs. An expensive fantasy, ''Jack the Giant Slayer,'' flopped outright. Movies aimed at men (''The Last Stand,'' ''Broken City'' and ''21 & Over'') have disappointed in assembly-line fashion.
One of the few exceptions, ''Oz the Great and Powerful'' from Walt Disney Studios, sold an additional $22 million in tickets over the weekend, placing third. ''Oz'' has now taken in $177.6 million in North America over three weeks. (Crucial overseas sales, however, have been soft.)
''The Call'' (Sony) was fourth, selling about $8.7 million in tickets, for a two-week total of $30.9 million. ''Admission,'' a new comedy starring Tina Fey and Paul Rudd, was an underwhelming fifth, taking in about $6.4 million. But it cost Focus Features only an estimated $13 million to make.
DreamWorks Animation urgently needed the cave people of ''The Croods'' to succeed. The studio's last release, ''Rise of the Guardians,'' was a box-office failure, prompting an $87 million write-down. ''The Croods'' also represents the beginning of a new distribution partnership for DreamWorks Animation, which parted ways with Paramount Pictures late last year in favor of 20th Century Fox.
Opening-weekend results for ''The Croods,'' which cost at least $135 million to make, are on par with ''How to Train Your Dragon,'' also from DreamWorks with a March release date, which took in $46.5 million over its first three days in 2010 (after adjusting for inflation) and went on to gross about $500 million worldwide and spawn two sequels, a TV series and a live arena show. But ''How to Train Your Dragon'' also received much stronger reviews than ''The Croods.''
''Olympus Has Fallen,'' an R-rated White House action thriller starring Gerard Butler, cost Millennium Films about $70 million to make and was distributed by FilmDistrict. Aside from giving Mr. Butler's career a much-needed lift, the strong turnout puts pressure on Sony's similar ''White House Down,'' planned for June release.
The inexpensive ''Spring Breakers,'' distributed by A24, played in 1,104 theaters -- a huge release by independent film standards but a modest one compared with mainstream Hollywood. (''The Croods,'' for example, was booked into 4,046 theaters.) Mr. Korine, still best known for writing ''Kids'' (1995), has never had this kind of success as a director; his previous four films took in less than $500,000 combined.
Starring Selena Gomez, Vanessa Hudgens and James Franco and fueled by drugs, sex and violence, ''Spring Breakers'' was backed by an aggressive social media marketing campaign orchestrated by A24, an upstart distributor, and theAudience, a company partly owned by the William Morris Endeavor talent agency that seeks to build (and exploit) networks of fans across Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The Croods,'' a prehistoric road movie from DreamWorks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREAMWORKS ANIMATION) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); ANIMATION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); ANIMATED FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MEN (71%); FAMILY TRAVEL (71%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (91%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (73%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



828 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Time to Strengthen Family Immigration

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The momentum in Washington for immigration reform has been growing with amazing speed in recent weeks, and it seems that the question now is not whether Congress will try to fix the immigration system this year, but how big and effective the repairs will be. We hope that whatever bill emerges will continue to protect and unite families, preserving and strengthening a bedrock value of America's immigration system. 
It might be hard to imagine that America's long tradition of allowing immigrants to sponsor spouses, children and siblings for visas would be threatened. But anti-immigration groups and lawmakers have long attacked the practice, using the slanderous and misleading term ''chain migration,'' which summons images of a relentless flow of undesirables, usually from south of the border. Even as some of the staunchest resistance to reform is crumbling -- legalizing 11 million immigrants was unthinkable for leading Republicans a few months ago, and now even rock-ribbed Tea Partiers like Senator Rand Paul favor it -- right-wing resistance to family migration persists.
Bills are still being drafted, but some lawmakers are reportedly trying to reduce or eliminate visas for extended family members in order to expand employment-based immigration. Advocates are resisting this zero-sum game.
These tensions emerged at a recent hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, who led the hearing, spoke movingly of her own experience immigrating to Honolulu as a young girl, and yet joined other witnesses in explaining how the system falls short: she noted that it treats women unequally -- many who arrive as dependent spouses are denied the right to work legally, and face discrimination and severe obstacles to assimilation. And Mee Moua, president of the Asian American Justice Center, explained how backlogs kept families separated for years, if not decades. ''As of November 2012,'' she said, ''nearly 4.3 million close family members were waiting in the family-visa backlogs'' -- with Latino and Asian-American families most affected.
But even as Ms. Moua explained how important family visas are, Senator Jeff Sessions balked at the very concept. Using an example of two hypothetical Hondurans, he suggested that the visas were bad because some relatives can be underachievers. He ignored the powerful truth that family immigration is an economic bulwark. Families incubate job-creating businesses, provide a safety net for their members and hasten assimilation. Employment visas are important for companies to recruit needed workers. But these workers have spouses and children and siblings.
And we need workers at all levels of the economy: As Representative Luis Gutierrez of Illinois recently put it, ''Silicon Valley engineers and entrepreneurs would not be very productive or competitive engines of our economy if they did not have food to eat, or people to care for their children or parents, or a clean office and clean clothes, or a made bed in their hotel room on a business trip.''
Immigration is more than a business relationship America has with selected foreigners. It's a process that renews this country; it means going all-in on America, through binding ties of love and blood. Recruited workers enrich the country. Reunited families do, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (84%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); JOB CREATION (71%)

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (58%); MAZIE K HIRONO (57%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (57%); RAND PAUL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (96%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



829 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: What You Need to Know About Credit Card Processing

BYLINE: PAUL DOWNS


HIGHLIGHT: Every merchant services application I have seen has required a Social Security number and demanded that all card transactions be backstopped by my own assets. My house, my car and my savings are all up for grabs if things go wrong. 

 BODY:
Starting on Tuesday morning, I am going to publish a series of posts about my search for an honest and affordable processor of credit card transactions. It was not an easy search, but I learned a lot - much of which I never wanted to know but some of which I think may be helpful to other business owners.
As a warm-up to the series, I offer this primer on card-processing basics. I think this background information will be helpful if you read the series or, more important, if you, too, have struggled to arrange credit card processing. My own search began when I was tipped off that I was paying more than necessary for my transactions. Many years ago, I agreed to let my bank handle them, and since then, I had given the topic little thought. 
I wrote about my issues with my bank in a previous post, including my feeling that my credit card processing - also known as merchant services - was costing me too much. That feeling was set off by a cold call last spring from a processor that was interested in seeing whether it could lower my transaction costs. That prompted me to do some research. 
I soon learned that there are four parties involved with every credit card transaction: the merchant receiving the payment ("merchant"), the bank that the merchant uses to provide processing services ("acquiring bank"), the bank that issued the card to the customer ("issuing bank") and the customer ("customer").
The money in the transaction is lent by the issuing bank to the customer, who will either pay off the debt within 30 days or add it to a balance and pay interest on it. Technically, as I will explain in a moment, the acquiring bank is also making a loan to the merchant. Fees are deducted by both the issuing bank and the acquiring bank, so that the amount of money that ends up in the merchant's account is less than the amount charged the customer.
The issuing bank's fee is called the interchange fee. The acquiring bank's fee is called the discount rate, and it might be supplemented with other fees. Both the interchange fees and the discount fees are expressed as percentages of the transaction, although a small fixed amount may be associated with each transaction.
Many banks issue credit cards to customers and act as issuing banks. These banks hand out cards of a certain brand, with Visa, MasterCard and Discover the most common. American Express is a little different - it acts as both the issuing and the acquiring bank and charges a single fee directly to the merchant but will administer the transaction through the acquiring bank so that a merchant can process American Express transactions through the same terminal as the other cards.
Those interchange rates are published information - you can see Visa's fee structure here and MasterCard's here. The exact interchange fee charged to the acquiring bank (and the merchant) is determined by several factors: whether the card is present at the transaction, what type of card is used (a rewards card? a card used by the government for purchasing?) and what type of merchant accepts the card.
Yes, the type of business you are in can affect the interchange rates. This is because the issuing bank wants to be compensated for the risk of the dreaded chargeback, which happens when a customer disputes a charge successfully. When a customer complains about the product or services you have provided, chances are good that the money you were paid by the acquiring bank, plus additional fees, will be taken out of your account. You can appeal this, but it will take a while and you will probably lose.
Some businesses are more likely than others to provoke chargebacks. The safest transactions, from the point of view of both issuing banks and acquiring banks, occur when the cardholder is physically present to swipe the card and sign the receipt and when the goods are inexpensive and unlikely to provoke complaints. Merchandise and services that are standard and used quickly are the safest, which is why gas stations, restaurants and car rental agencies get favorable rates.
The riskiest transactions are those that are done over the phone and Internet, especially if the transaction is large and the business is of a kind that tends to generate complaints. That's why an important part of applying for merchant services is revealing what kind of business you are. To make sure everyone is speaking the same language, the processors employ MCC Codes, four-digit numbers issued for a wide variety of businesses as defined by the federal government. If you wade through the MasterCard interchange document I linked to above, you will see special interchange rates associated with different MCC codes. Visa works the same way.
If you need to accept credit cards for your business, you have to deal with the acquiring bank. It is common for the responsibilities of the acquiring bank to be split between two entities. The first, commonly called the merchant service provider, is in constant contact with the merchant. When a sales representative shows up at your door to try to sign you up for credit card processing, or when you interact with a Web site (such as Square) to investigate a deal, you are dealing with the merchant service provider, which can be an arm of a bank or a smaller independent company.
In every deal I looked at, standing behind the merchant service provider was another company. I'm not sure if this is the correct term, but I'll call it the processing company. This entity actually executes the mechanics of the transaction: transmitting information among the merchant, the issuing bank and the acquiring bank. In my dealings with four merchant service providers, I found it difficult to tell exactly how the duties of the acquiring bank were divided between the merchant service provider and the processing company. The sales representatives clearly worked for the merchant service provider. The monthly statement could come from either the merchant service provider or the processing company. The card readers were provided by the processing company. And somewhere in the middle were the underwriters.
Underwriters? Is someone evaluating risk? Yup. It is important to understand that when you sign up to accept credit card payments, you are actually borrowing money. When the acquiring bank transfers cash to the merchant, it is assuming the risk that there will be a chargeback. That risk will remain until the transaction (which may, for instance, include shipping time) is completed and the warranty on the goods (which may last a long time after delivery) has expired.
Despite that risk, the acquiring bank will put the transacted funds in the merchant's account a couple of days after the transaction is reported. The acquiring bank sees this as a loan and that's why when you apply for merchant services, your fitness to borrow the amounts that your business generates in credit card transactions will be evaluated. Every merchant services application I have seen has required a Social Security number and demanded that all card transactions be backstopped by my own assets. My house, my car and my savings are all up for grabs if things go wrong.
And as with any personal guarantee, this one is likely to affect your credit score and your ability to borrow money outside the business. At the very least, if you shop around for merchant services, as I did, your personal credit report will show multiple inquiries - with whatever effects that might have.
 Tuesday: My search for an honest credit card processor begins.
 Paul Downs founded Paul Downs Cabinetmakers in 1986. It is based outside Philadelphia. 

        
My Search for Reasonable and Understandable Credit Card Processing
        
Will the Credit Card Settlement Help Merchants?
        
What I Took Home in 2012
        
Are You Sticking With Expensive Financing Too Long?
        
S.B.A. Proposes Rule Changes to Lure Borrowers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (96%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (93%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) American Express Company; Banking and Financial Institutions; Credit Cards; Downs, Paul; MasterCard Inc; Paul Downs Cabinetmakers; Small Business; Visa Inc; American Express Company|AXP|NYSE; MasterCard Inc|MA|NYSE; Visa Inc|V|NYSE; Staying Alive

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Company; MasterCard Inc; Paul Downs Cabinetmakers; Visa Inc

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (58%) American Express Company; AXP; NYSE; American Express Company; AXP; NYSE; MasterCard Inc; MA; NYSE; American Express Company; AXP; NYSE; MasterCard Inc; MA; NYSE; Visa Inc; V; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: Downs, Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



830 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Atlantic: Behold: the radish as an aphrodisiac (and you thought you were tired of reading about root vegetables). - Melissa Clark
The New York Times: And now, the dream job? Texas Monthly hires Daniel Vaughn to be its first barbecue editor, a position that exists at no other newspaper in America. He's noshed at 500 barbecue joints in Texas. Oh, and his wife isn't wild about barbecue. - Glenn Collins 
: When was the last time you heard someone order a Danish? The pastry is back at many New York bakeries and restaurants, in new variants like the maple yam at Bien Cuit. - Patrick Farrell
Decanter: Andrew Jefford asks the question, does malt whiskey have a sense of place? The answer: possibly, but not in the same way that wine does. - Eric Asimov
The New York Times: In a town in rural Ireland, where there is little to do but go to a pub, local officials passed an ordinance that would give the police discretion about drunken driving citations, allowing people to drive home after having two or three drinks on little-used roads going at very low speeds. - Maria Newman
The New York Times: An increasing number of older Americans aren't just smoking marijuana; they're cooking with it. - Emily Weinstein
Food52: Still deciding which macaroon recipe to make for the Seder? Alice Medrich's genius recipe combines classic coconut with a hefty chunk of chocolate. I made them last year, a huge hit. - Melissa Clark
The Financial Times: Hill of Grace is one of Australia's most celebrated wines. To make sure it is worthy of its status, Jancis Robinson tasted every vintage of the wine ever released, 48 in all. - Eric Asimov
The Guardian: To spend more time with family and friends at Easter, here are some recipes you can prepare in advance: labneh eggs with dukka, shin of beef stew with star anise and rhubarb semifreddo. - Glenn Collins
Instuctables How to make Cadbury Creme Eggs from scratch, because you know you really want to know. - Melissa Clark
The Associated Press: Sugar beets are making a comeback, but not in the way you think. A dozen farmers in California, with the backing of a $5 million state grant, are set to start construction of a plant that will convert the beets into ethanol. (Via The Huffington Post) - Maria Newman
Nation's Restaurant News: It's been a bleak season for higher-check-cost restaurant chains like the Darden Restaurant Group's LongHorn Steakhouse, Red Lobster and Olive Garden - with a sales decline of 4.6 percent. Meanwhile, Darden's more affordable brands, like the Capital Grille and Yard House, are up 2.3 percent. Analysts point to a downscaling, stay-at-home trend due to the lingering recession, the spike in gasoline prices, the payroll tax increase and severe winter weather. - Glenn Collins
Outside: "The Pacific Northwest smells like miso soup," writes Rowan Jacobsen in this piece about the hyper-locavore chef Blaine Wetzel of the Willow Inn on Lummi Island. - Melissa Clark

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (74%); WINE (74%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); CANNABIS (71%); BAKERIES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); ALCOHOLS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



831 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Our Carbon, Our Climate, Our Cash

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer support for climate-change legislation could be built through a carbon tax that returns dividends to the public, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
We all buy stuff that generates carbon dioxide emissions and threatens the stability of our climate. We don't directly pay the resulting costs, which are postponed to a vague and indefinite future in which none of us can be held individually accountable for a devastating increase in the level and variability of average global temperatures.
A tax on carbon consumption could help solve the problem, bringing the prices of carbon-intensive goods and services into closer alignment with their true costs and discouraging us all from buying more of them. 
We would be hard hit by a sudden shift in relative prices, and some of us are especially vulnerable to an increase in energy costs. However, we could use carbon tax revenues to help compensate for the shock - offering everyone a rebate-like dividend to buffer reductions in purchasing power and encouraging ourselves to invest in technologies that reduce our carbon footprint. 
A new Climate Protection Act introduced by Senators Bernard Sanders, the independent from Vermont, and Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, proposes such a tax. About 60 percent of the revenues would be returned directly to consumers, 25 percent allotted to deficit reduction and 15 percent devoted to investments in renewable energy.

The bill's sponsors aim to win the support of the American people rather than influential industry lobbying groups. Is this aim a strength or a weakness? The way you answer this question depends on who you think will throw the most weight behind climate-change legislation. It also depends on who you think "owns" our atmosphere and who you believe should get compensated when it is compromised. 
Support for some kind of fee on carbon consumption that would distribute revenues to offset adjustment costs has been gaining steam for several years. In a commentary published in The New York Times in 2009, James Hansen, one of the world's most respected climate scientists, asserted that the better-known cap-and trade approach, allowing companies to buy and sell permits to emit pollutants, had proved both ineffective and vulnerable to corruption.
He emphasized that a dividend-based approach would give consumers a stronger incentive to change their behavior and give voters a stronger incentive to support significant regulation. 
Dr. Hansen's logic lent support to a bill introduced in Congress by Senators Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, proposing a cap on carbon emissions that would lead to price increases counterbalanced by per-capita dividends for consumers. In an analysis of the likely impact of such a policy, James K. Boyce and Matthew E. Riddle, my colleagues at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, found that about 70 percent of households - and a majority of households in every state in the country - would enjoy net cash benefits. 
Evidence of political traction comes from a recent proposal from the California Public Utilities Commission incorporating a dividend-based approach. It calls for distribution of some revenues from the auction of carbon emission permits to industries to be distributed equally to every residential utility account. The commission noted that this policy "comports with the idea of common ownership of the atmosphere given that residential ratepayers will ultimately bear the increased costs."
But the Cantwell-Collins bill was largely sidelined by a push to win bipartisan support from major industry groups to pass cap-and-trade legislation. This push proved unsuccessful, perhaps because major environmental groups pursued a classic Beltway strategy of extensive lobbying and negotiation over technical details of little interest to all but major industry players. In a detailed postmortem, the Harvard political scientist Theda Skocpol contends that this strategy made it easier for Republican opponents to sway recession-weary voters fearful of the negative economic impact of higher energy prices. 
The tax-and-dividend approach, by contrast, appeals directly to voters as consumers, encouraging them to change their buying habits but subsidizing that change through progressive redistribution. It also gives them a stake in higher carbon-tax revenues - economic skin in the game.
Here's the big question: whose economic skin is most important? As Professor Skocpol makes clear, environmental groups supported cap-and-trade because they believed energy industry support was vital for climate change legislation. Some economists, including Adele Morris in a paper published by the Hamilton Project, and Donald Marron at the Tax Policy Center, assert that revenues from a carbon tax should be used to significantly lower corporate tax rates. This proposal is obviously likely to win corporate support. 
But the energy industry is dominated by companies with a big stake in fossil fuels, and effective corporate tax rates are already low by international standards. There is little evidence that large businesses are suffering from any shortfall of funds to invest. Quite the contrary - profits are way up because wages have been squeezed. If anything, global businesses seem to have too much idle cash. 
A tax-and-dividend policy could increase consumer spending and increase demand for energy conservation and renewable energy technologies, improving the prospects for sustainable economic growth. 
It might not save all our skins, but it would offer some valuable protection from the coming burn. 

        
Another Look at Natural Gas
        
The Hard Math on Fossil Fuels
        
When Tax Cuts Were a Tough Sell
        
The Labor Market Post-Budget Deal
        
Tax Increases and Bull Markets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); CARBON OFFSETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); SALES REBATES (57%) Conservation of Resources; Federal Taxes (US); Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Today's Economist

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (50%); MARIA CANTWELL (50%); SUSAN COLLINS (50%); BERNIE SANDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



832 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Walkabout - 3/25: No Carry-on? Go to Front of the Line, Says American

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors. 

 BODY:
 Flying Light American Airlines is testing new boarding procedures that award passengers who don't bring any carry-ons by allowing them to board before others in economy class. (Today) 
 Airplane Mode The Federal Aviation Administration may relax the rules for reading devices during takeoff and landing. (The New York Times)
 Unsafe Renovations A 10-year-old boy was killed and other family members were injured after a flight display board fell at Birmingham-Shuttlesworth International Airport, only weeks after the renovated airport reopened. (ABC News)
 Concerns in India Britain's Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued a travel advisory for women in India following recent reports of rape targeting tourists that have gained world-wide attention. (The Chicago Tribune)
 Lady Liberty Still Shuttered New York City's Ellis Island Immigration Museum, which was damaged during Hurricane Sandy, is still without power and is not likely to reopen this year. (ABC News)

        
Calendar: Coming Events in North Carolina, London, San Antonio, Berlin
        
The Red One, Next to the Fiat
        
And Snoring in 14E ...
        
Last Splash
        
What If You Hate Mountains?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (88%); WRITERS (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIONICS (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); HURRICANES (66%); TOURISM (53%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); HURRICANE SANDY (52%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



833 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Beware of the High Cost of 'Free' Online Courses

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Michael Cusumano, a professor at M.I.T., raises doubts about the ultimate cost to the education field of massive open online courses, or MOOCs. 

 BODY:
That the acronym MOOCs rhymes with "nukes" seems apt. Massive open online courses, or MOOCs - led by two profit-making start-ups, Coursera and Udacity, founded by entrepreneurial Stanford professors - are a new disruptive force in education. Leading universities have scrambled to join or offer alternatives like edX, a collaboration of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University and others.
The MOOCs movement has been greeted with equal parts enthusiasm and angst. The MOOC champions predict a technology-fueled revolution in the distribution and democratization of high-quality education. The MOOC skeptics have a variety of qualms, but especially about what is lost in the retreat of face-to-face teaching - a point eloquently made by Andrew Delbanco, a professor of American studies at Columbia University, in an article in the current New Republic, "MOOCs of Hazard." 
Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., raises a different issue in an essay published this week: the economics of MOOCs and the implications. 
His article appears in Communications of the ACM, the monthly magazine of the Association for Computing Machinery, and he had circulated a version of it earlier to his M.I.T. colleagues. After reading it, L. Rafael Rief, M.I.T.'s president, asked Mr. Cusumano to serve on a task force on the "residential university" of the future, including online initiatives.
"My fear is that we're plunging forward with these massively free online education resources and we're not thinking much about the economics," Mr. Cusumano said in an interview.
The MOOC champions, Mr. Cusumano said, are well-intentioned people who "think it's a social good to distribute education for free."
But Mr. Cusumano questions that assumption. "Free is actually very elitist," he said. The long-term future of university education along the MOOC path, he said, could be a "few large, well-off survivors" and a wasteland of casualties.
Mr. Cusumano's concerns grow out of his study of the software and media industries in the face of price pressure from free, open-source software and digital distribution over the Internet. Two-thirds of the public companies in the software industry disappeared between 1998 and 2006, as companies failed or were acquired. In the media world, Mr. Cusumano contends that newspaper and magazine companies - including The New York Times Company - made a strategic mistake by giving away their publications free on the Web. The online pay walls that publications have since put up, he said, seem to be helping to stabilize things, but only after a precipitous decline.
Give-away pricing in education, Mr. Cusumano warns, may well be a comparable misstep. The damage would occur, he writes in the article, "if increasing numbers of universities and colleges joined the free online education movement and set a new threshold price for the industry - zero - which becomes commonly accepted and difficult to undo." 
In our conversation, I offered the obvious counterargument. Why should education necessarily be immune from this digital, Darwinian wave, when other industries are not? Isn't this just further evidence of the march of disruptive progress that ultimately benefits society?
Mr. Cusumano has heard this reasoning before, and he is unconvinced. In the article, he explains, "I am mostly concerned about second- and third-tier universities and colleges, and community colleges, many of which play critical roles for education and economic development in their local regions and communities."
"In education," Mr. Cusumano adds, "'free' in the long run may actually reduce variety and opportunities for learning as well as lessen our stocks of knowledge."
Later he writes: "Will two-thirds of the education industry disappear? Maybe not, but maybe! It is hard to believe that we will be better off as a society with only a few remaining megawealthy universities."

        
Measuring the Success of Online Education
        
Daily Report: College of the Future May Be on the Internet
        
Daily Report: Online Learning, Through the Khan Academy
        
Start-Up Uses Online Games to Teach Math
        
A Start-Up Helps With the Run-Up to College

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%) Cusumano, Michael A; E-Learning; Sloan School of Management; Internet; Social

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Sloan School of Management

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: Cusumano, Michael A

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



834 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: A Highly Public Trip for the President, and the First Lady

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP


HIGHLIGHT: China&#8217;s leadership has been promoting a concept called the &#8220;Chinese Dream&#8221; that depends on continued economic growth and stable relations with the United States. Apple, meanwhile, finds itself the target of attacks in the official media. 

 BODY:
President Xi Jinping of China is on his inaugural overseas trip. Mr. Xistopped first in Russia, went to Tanzania, and will then visit the Republic of Congo and South Africa, where he will also attend a summit meeting of emerging BRICS economies - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.
His visit to Russia yielded "breakthrough" oil deals,an agreement to buy24 Su-35 fighters and four Lada-class submarines, a commitment to strengthen defense ties and a pledge for more cooperation on tourism. The Chinese and Russian leaders apparently got along quite well, as Mr. Xi told President Vladimir Putin that their "souls are open to each other". 
China and Russia have a history of mutual distrust, and we should view the happy talk of closer ties with some skepticism, though dismissing it as a "nothingburger of an event" may be a bit too flip. The two countries havemany shared interests, including a desire to stymie United States influence and, for China at least, counter the United States "pivot" to Asia.
Mr. Xi visits Africa with trade between China and the continent worth more than $200 billion a year. In Tanzania on Monday, he said China wanted a "relationship of equals," remarks aimed at countering the growing sentiment that China is exploiting the continent. At the BRICS meeting Mr. Xi may "endorse plans to create a joint foreign exchange reserves pool" that theoretically could help emerging market countries lessen reliance on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
Peng Liyuan, the president's wife, has been an unexpected star of the trip. Mrs. Peng, a singer who holds the rank of major general in the People's Liberation Army and is known for her patriotic songs, is China's most glamorous and public first lady in a long time. Pictures of her on the trip lit up Chinese social media and her fashion choices, all Chinese brands, should be both a boon to the designers and a message to other Chinese officials and their spouses that homegrown brands are more appropriate than foreign, luxury ones.
The "Chinese Dream" is a concept that the new leadership has been promoting, both domestically and internationally. The domestic version ties together national rejuvenation, improvement of people's livelihoods, prosperity, construction of a better society andmilitary strengthening as the common dream of the Chinese people that can be best achieved under one party, Socialist rule.
The official, global version of the Chinese Dream:
will benefit not only the Chinese people, but also people of all countries. The Chinese dream is not a call for revanchism and Chinese nationalism at the expense of its neighbors. It is the dream of China, which once suffered invasions and turmoil, to maintain lasting peace.
Continued economic growth is the sine qua non of the Chinese Dream. A new report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecasts that China's economy can continue grow at 8 percent a year through 2020 if it enacts many of the reforms that Beijing has already repeatedly said it intends to. At the China Development Forum in Beijing over the weekend, the vice premier and Politburo standing committee member, Zhang Gaoli, reiterated the government's resolvein pushing through difficult reforms.
Stable relations with the United States are also important to the realization of the Chinese Dream. Perhaps to underscore that although Mr. Xi's first, heavily publicized overseas trip is to Russia and Africa, Monday night's CCTV Evening News broadcast showed Henry Kissinger meeting with Premier Li Keqiang and former Secretary of Defense William Cohen meeting with Mr. Zhang. Premier Li stressed the importance of the United States-China relationship and reiterated China's desire for a "new type of great power relationship" while the vice premier pledged fairness for foreign companies.
APPLE MAY WANT TO TAKE MR. ZHANG UP on his fairness pledge. On March 15, CCTV claimed that Apple's support policies discriminate against Chinese consumers. Last week, Xinhua bemoaned the mindless consumption of Apple products by Wuhan students in "Apple pursuit lures 20,000 students into high-interest loans." And Monday morning, The People's Daily criticized the company for both its support policies and its public relations response, even going so far as to mock the response witha cartoon.
As of last quarter, China is Apple's second-biggest and fastest-growing market. It is not clear whether these official media attacks are part of a broader attack on an American company whose size and success may make Beijing uncomfortable.
In the United States, you would never see a government official using a Huawei device, but a fair number of Chinese ones use Apple products. So far, there have not been official media calls for government workers to stop using Apple devices, though the crackdown on corruption may have dented purchases of iPhones and iPads intended for gifts.
When Apple reports earnings April 23, we should learn whether Apple's Chinese dream is still on track.

        
With New Chinese Leaders in Place, Waiting for an Agenda to Emerge
        
After the First 100 Days of Xi Jinping

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BRICS COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TRENDS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%) Apple Inc; China; Defense and Military Forces; Economic Conditions and Trends; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Peng Liyuan; Xi Jinping; Zhang Gaoli; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; China &#20013;&#22269; Insider

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

TICKER: Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ

PERSON: XI JINPING (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) Peng Liyuan; Xi Jinping; Zhang Gaoli

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



835 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Creates Tax Shelters in Appeal to the Rich

BYLINE: LYNNLEY BROWNING and JULIE CRESWELL


HIGHLIGHT: The island has created tax breaks for interest, dividends and capital gains in an effort to lure affluent American executives from the mainland. 

 BODY:
Known for its white-sand beaches and killer rums, Puerto Rico hopes to stake a new claim: tax haven for the wealthy.
Since the beginning of the year, the island has gone on a campaign to promote tax incentives that took effect last year, marketing its beautiful beaches, private schools and bargain costs in an effort to lure well-heeled hedge fund managers and business executives to its shores.
So far, Puerto Rico's pitch has attracted a handful of under-the-radar millionaires. Several American executives of mostly smaller financial firms say they have already relocated to the island, and Puerto Rican officials say another 40 persons, mostly from the United States, have applied.
The tax savings could add up to "at least in the six figures" each year, said Barry Breeman, an American who said he was moving to Puerto Rico with his wife. Mr. Breeman is the co-founder of the New York-based Caribbean Property Group, a real estate investment firm that has substantial holdings on the island. 
Millionaires are nice, but Puerto Rican officials hope to reel in billionaires like John A. Paulson, the hedge fund manager who Bloomberg News reported earlier this month was weighing a move.
The attention prompted an unusual statement from Mr. Paulson, which declared that he was not relocating. (Still, Mr. Paulson, a 57-year-old New Yorker, had briefly considered a move, say two people with knowledge of his plans.)
If not Mr. Paulson, government officials and real estate brokers in Puerto Rico hope to sell other wealthy mainland Americans on what they hope will become the next Singapore or Ireland as a favored low-tax destination. Puerto Rico is closer and, compared with Ireland, decidedly warmer. And unlike in Switzerland or other havens, in Puerto Rico, Americans do not give up their citizenship.
"There's nothing wrong with spending 183 days a year on a sailboat or yacht and working from here," said Alberto Bacó Bagué, the secretary of economic development and commerce for the island, in a telephone interview. "We're catching up to Ireland and Singapore - you can shelter income legally, and legally in a good way."
Puerto Rico is a commonwealth of the United States, but for tax purposes, it is treated differently. Most residents of Puerto Rico, with the exception of federal employees, already pay no federal income tax. A person needs to live 183 days a year on the island to become a legal resident.
The new tax breaks are a twist on the island's tradition of using tax perks to bolster the economy. Puerto Rico's per-capita income is around $15,200, half that of Mississippi, the poorest state in the nation. In 2006, a previous incentive exempting United States companies from paying taxes on profits from Puerto Rican manufacturing ended after Congress said that the incentive had bilked taxpayers.
The new tax breaks are a radical shift in that they focus on financial, legal and other services, not manufacturing. Puerto Rico slashed taxes on interest and dividends to zero from 33 percent, and it lowered taxes on capital gains, a major source of income for hedge fund managers, to zero to 10 percent.
The incentives work with existing United States breaks. While residents still have to file a federal tax return, they do not have to pay capital gains taxes of 15 percent on assets held before moving and sold after 10 years of island residency.
The new tax incentives "likely will be considered more broadly by some taxpayers as a new opportunity for income shifting and tax deferral," said Michael Pfeifer, an international tax lawyer at the law firm Caplin Drysdale in Washington.
Mr. Bacó, the Puerto Rican economic development official, is planning a road show on the East Coast next month to woo financial and law firms as well as wealthy individuals to moving to Puerto Rico.
Because of its new aggressive tax breaks, Puerto Rico is a supercharged version of Florida, which does not tax individuals on ordinary income.
Recently, a business development group in Palm Beach, Fla., wined and dined 10 executives from the Northeast who had flown in for a two-day tour showcasing the state's tax advantages, complete with golf outings, showings of oceanfront office space and a soiree aboard a yacht.
Florida has already landed one big fish: Edward S. Lampert of ESL Investments moved his headquarters from Greenwich, Conn., to near Miami last year.
The sales pitches by Florida and Puerto Rico tap into a growing resentment among affluent people who feel that they have been vilified by politicians or believe they have unfairly become targets for disproportionately higher taxes. In one highly publicized example, the actor Gérard Depardieu, angry over a plan by the French government to raise taxes to 75 percent for the wealthy, accepted a Russian passport from President Vladimir V. Putin. Russia has a flat tax rate of 13 percent.
But a move to Puerto Rico may be easier said than done. Privately, some lawyers and accountants in the United States express concern that individuals who move to the American island for its lower taxes might appear "unpatriotic" in a widening crackdown by authorities on offshore tax dodging through Switzerland, Israel and Singapore.
And while the island's tax breaks are legal, some investors say they do not want their hedge fund managers straying too far from their mainland office.
"Citi Private Bank expects hedge fund principals to be in a primary office with their critical employees close by," David Bailin, the global head of managed investments for the firm, wrote in an e-mail.
Puerto Rico has been battered by several years of recession. Its unemployment rate is more than 13 percent, well above the national rate, and its economy remains mired. In December, Moody's Investors Services downgraded the island's debt to one notch above junk status; and in a recent research note, Breckenridge Capital Advisors said the island was "flirting with insolvency." The island has the weakest pension fund in America and by some estimates could run out of money as soon as 2014.
An influx of wealthy financiers would provide a much-needed lift to the economy.
Margaret Pena Juvelier is a real estate broker with Sotheby's International Realty who left the Upper East Side last fall to open an office in San Juan. "We're getting an average of 10 to 15 calls or e-mails a day from people who want to look at homes," she said.
Ms. Juvelier often sends a black S.U.V. with a driver in a suit and tie to meet clients, some of whom fly in on private jets and pepper her with questions like "is there a Whole Foods here?" and "if I get really sick, do I have to be medevaced?"
Nicholas Prouty of the investment fund Valivian Advisors, who is moving to San Juan from Greenwich, Conn., said he wanted "the excitement of having new experiences coupled with the worry of the unknown."
While the real estate broker Ana González Brunet declines to name names, saying "discretion to billionaires is important," she said multiple individuals had recently looked at the 8,379-square-foot penthouse in the Acquamarina in the chic Condado neighborhood of San Juan. The $5 million condo has underground parking and a panoramic view of the ocean through floor-to-ceiling windows, and is near luxury boutiques like Cartier, Salvatore Ferragamo and Louis Vuitton.
"It's like being in the best part of Manhattan," Ms. González Brunet said.

        
Swiss Bank Pleads Guilty to Tax Law Violations
        
The Right Way to Increase Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); BEACHES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); US TERRITORIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); INCOME TAX (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%) Capital Gains Tax; Federal Taxes (US); Puerto Rico; Tax Evasion; Taxation; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



836 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Expense and Emotions in Preparing for Long-Term Care

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
ANDY SHAPIRO had never given much thought to whether he would need help with daily activities as he aged. After all, the 61-year-old software consultant figured, he kept himself in good shape.
Then, about five years ago, his 81-year-old parents lost their vitality, seemingly overnight. ''Both of my parents rapidly went from being healthy -- swimming, playing tennis -- to being frail,'' he said. His mother developed a form of dementia and died within a year.
His father has required a live-in health care aide for the last two years. He has been able to afford that and stay in his home because about 30 years ago, he bought a long-term care insurance policy.
Such policies pay for help with daily activities and care, like dressing, bathing and feeding, either at home or in an assisted-living facility or a nursing home. Without the coverage provided by the policy, Mr. Shapiro said, his father would be living in a nursing home -- something Mr. Shapiro, who lives in Woodstock, N.Y., dreads. ''I can't imagine living in a nursing home,'' he said in a phone interview. ''The thought of it disturbs me.'' 
So this year, he conferred with an insurance broker and applied for coverage. He is waiting to hear back from two companies, but expects a policy for himself and his wife to cost several thousand dollars a year.
The emotional impact of witnessing the decline of a family member or helping to care for one is often the reason people seek coverage for long-term care, people who work in the aging field say.
''Anything relating to long-term care triggers a lot of emotions, because most of us want to believe we'll never need it,'' said Nora Dowd Eisenhower, economic security director at the National Council on Aging. Many people who consider the policies have firsthand experience caring for an aging parent, she said, and most of them want coverage that will pay for care in their homes.
''You should never make a financial decision based on emotion,'' said Bernard A. Krooks, an elder-law specialist in New York. ''But in this case, it's extremely hard for clients, and even myself, to separate emotions from the finances.''
That can be tricky with long-term care insurance, an increasingly complex and expensive product. It is getting tougher to qualify for plans, and the policies offer less protection against inflation than they used to.
Fewer companies are offering such coverage; one of the largest, Genworth, recently said it would suspend selling new policies in California, pending regulatory approval of a new type of policy. And the Obama administration recently abandoned plans to offer a federally sponsored option. Companies are basing premiums in part on applicants' sex, so women, who tend to live longer and so are more likely to need care, are paying more.
According to the American Association for Long-Term Care Insurance, premiums for individuals have risen by double digits in one year. On average, a 60-year-old couple who buy a policy now will pay more than $3,700 a year for $162,000 each in ''current'' benefits, which will grow to $329,000 each when they turn 85 (at an inflation rate of 3 percent, compounded annually). That is a 10 percent increase over last year's premium; the increase in a typical premium for single policy holders was around 20 percent.
This example is based on a typical ''three year'' policy that uses a daily rate of $150 to calculate a maximum, three-year payout. That doesn't mean, though, that it pays benefits only for three years. Rather, that time period is used to calculate a pool of money that can be tapped as needed.
Lower premiums are available, but the policies lack inflation protection. So, for instance, with no inflation adjustment, the same 60-year-old couple would pay about $1,800 a year -- but the pool of available funds would remain $162,000 at age 85, so the couple would most likely have to pay more out of their own savings.
A newer and less common middle option, which costs $1,942 a year, lets buyers lock in the option to increase coverage later, without additional health assessments.
People with low incomes may rely on Medicaid, the government health insurance program for the poor, for long-term care costs. The wealthy are likely to be able to afford care on their own or to pay substantial monthly premiums for coverage. It is those in the middle who are left to decide if they can afford insurance -- and that's most of us, said Mark R. Meiners, a professor of health administration and policy at George Mason University. He advocates coverage through state long-term care partnership programs, which work with Medicaid to help protect policy holders' financial assets.
Paul Goldhirsch, a long-term care insurance broker at Lighthouse Financial Network in Jericho, N.Y., said he usually started by asking prospective clients why they had contacted him. Often, they call because something has jolted them. A neighbor had a stroke, has no applicable coverage, and his wife is exhausted caring for him -- and they don't want to end up in the same situation.
''It's an emotional conversation,'' Mr. Goldhirsch said. ''They have to be willing to accept that this is part of the way things are in life, and they have to be willing to do something about it in preparation.''
Carol Ventimiglia, 70, of South Plainfield, N.J., is adamant about having long-term care insurance because she saw both of her parents die, unhappily, in nursing homes. Her father spent much of his savings on his care, and her mother, who had diabetes and developed dementia, ended up on Medicaid and died from a wound infection.
Ms. Ventimiglia wants coverage so she and her husband, Robert, 71, can be cared for at home. They have three adult children, and they don't want them to have to worry about caring for their parents. ''If you've ever had anyone in a nursing home, you don't ever want to go there,'' she said. ''I'd rather be taken care of at home as long as possible. That's my wish and his wish, too.''
If they qualify, she said, she and her husband expect to pay at least $250 to $300 a month in premiums, a hefty bill now that they are retired, even though they have been frugal with their savings. ''But it's worth it to give me peace of mind, and you can't put a price on that,'' she said.
The Ventimiglias would have applied years earlier, she said, and possibly qualified for lower rates, but the couple mistakenly believed they had coverage through Mr. Ventimiglia's retirement package.
Michael J. Lehrhaupt, a long-term care planner and independent broker in Trumbull, Conn., said he told clients that the earlier they bought, the more affordable their policies would most likely be. The problem is that when people are in their 50s and healthy, they don't like to think about a time when they will be old and frail. ''People think they have full control,'' he said. ''But your health can change on a dime.''
Mr. Krooks, the elder-law lawyer, said that buying a policy to avoid a nursing home might be based on emotion but could still make sense. It can give couples more control and avoid forcing children or other heirs make difficult decisions about money. ''It takes pressure off the kids and lets them make decisions in the best interest of mom,'' rather than worrying about preserving their inheritance, he said.
He advises couples, however, to read the fine print in their policies to make sure they know just what type of coverage they're getting. Some policies, for instance, only pay out for ''licensed'' assisted-living facilities. It's also important to know how much inflation protection the policy includes.
Mr. Shapiro, the software consultant, said he would make a final decision about a policy after he saw the specifics his broker presented to him. He is seeking 5 percent inflation protection, which will undoubtedly increase his premium. Still, he wants to have it, because he does not plan on needing the coverage for a long time. ''I plan to live to 90 or 95,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (89%); AGING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE (75%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); APPROVALS (70%); DEMENTIA (70%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (70%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (69%); ELDER LAW (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



837 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Following Your Bliss, Right Off the Cliff

BYLINE: By KAI RYSSDAL and MEGAN LARSON; Devin Maverick Robins contributed reporting.. 
Kai Ryssdal is host and senior editor of the public radio program "Marketplace." Megan Larson is a producer for the program.

 BODY:
SO you want to be a writer. Or an artist. Or to open a cupcake shop. What you'll hear, often, is that you should pursue your dream. Follow your passion. Quit your job and live the life you want.
That advice should come with a bright yellow warning sticker: your dream may end in disaster.
Take the fashion editor Michelle Dalton Tyree and her sister, Jacqueline Dalton. They opened a Los Angeles boutique, Iconology, in 2006. The interior was custom-made chic -- white walls, black trim and refurbished hot pink Louis XVI bergères. And then there were the clothes.
''We were the only ones carrying Karl Lagerfeld's collection -- us and Fred Segal,'' Ms. Tyree recalled proudly. ''We would have studio stylists for TV shows come in and drop 10 grand in 30 minutes.'' 
''It was a unique store and there was a lot of love put into it,'' she added.
All that love -- and some great press -- didn't stop the store from failing. The sisters closed Iconology two years later. And what came next was what Ms. Tyree described as a ''financial blood bath'' from which she just emerged in December after four years of struggle.
Ms. Tyree acknowledges that she made rookie mistakes. The location wasn't great, and she didn't have enough of a financial cushion to withstand the ups-and-downs in the market. High-end fashion isn't cheap to stock, and a three-month Hollywood writers' strike, plus the looming financial crisis of 2008, helped drive away customers.
But even when the future looked grim, Ms. Tyree hung on. In fact, she dug in. She bought more inventory for the racks and threw celebrity-fueled parties at the store to generate buzz.
''Your gut says this could be a problem, but your head overrides it because you have just put in this huge investment,'' she said. ''You are hanging on to not just the dream, but you are hanging on to the sweat equity and what you put into it financially.''
Human beings, by nature, don't like to turn their backs on what are called ''sunk costs,'' said Craig Fox, who teaches decision-making at the University of California, Los Angeles. When a lot of money is put into something -- the dream of a small business, stocks or even an education -- and it can't be recovered or is otherwise ''sunk,'' few of us can just walk away.
Basically, no one likes to lose face.
Michael Dearing can relate. Today, he runs his own venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, Harrison Metal, which makes small seed investments in technology companies. He also teaches product development to aspiring entrepreneurs at Stanford University. But back in the '90s, when he was fresh out of Harvard Business School, he, too, sank a lot of money into his dream of owning his own store.
The Industrial Shoe Warehouse had five outlets in Los Angeles that sold work boots (think back to the Dr. Martens craze). ''It had a vibe of, like, Urban Outfitters -- concrete floor, high beam ceilings, all the stock was on the floor,'' said Mr. Dearing. ''We had a really good business for awhile.''
But, in the end, he said, ''It was what you would call a splat-against-the-wall failure.''
Mr. Dearing said the economics of running a shoe store were tougher than expected. Plus, the business grew too fast. Then Mr. Dearing's business partner wanted out.
He struggled to keep the business afloat because, he said, it felt dishonorable to let it go. ''I personalized the outcome to a degree that it was unhealthy,'' he said. ''I thought failure was total and permanent -- and success stamped me as a worthwhile business person.''
That's a normal reaction, says Dr. Richard Peterson, a psychiatrist and managing director for the New York-based financial consultancy MarketPsych. ''There is a part of the brain called the anterior insula, and that is where we process losses,'' he said. ''It creates a physical sensation of pain, and it also creates a sensation of disgust.''
That area of the brain sets off pain if you get shocked with electricity, for example. But, Dr. Peterson noted, ''You see the same response in people who are losing money.''
So to avoid the pain, Dr. Peterson said, we hope.
''There's a whole host of what my colleague Shelley Taylor'' -- a psychology professor at U.C.L.A. --''calls positive illusions,'' said Professor Fox. ''We overestimate our ability to control outcomes that have some element of chance'' and we ''tend to overestimate the extent to which good things are going to happen, especially to us.''
For both Ms. Tyree and Mr. Dearing, hope -- and money -- finally ran out.
''There was a moment,'' Ms. Tyree recalled, ''when we went to our attorney's office to declare bankruptcy. I looked down and my hands were shaking, tears welling up, and he looked at us -- he was this fabulous Ari Gold-ish character -- and he said, 'Michelle, some of these companies I work with are on their fifth and sixth bankruptcies. You haven't seen anything yet.' ''
That advice, she said, ''put it into perspective. I thought, O.K., this is not over for me, this was one piece that failed.''
Mr. Dearing liquidated his business in what he called an ''excruciating'' time. He turned to eBay to sell shoes, cash registers, delivery trucks and warehouse equipment to repay creditors and pay his employees' severance. ''I was dead broke,'' he said. ''This was probably one of the hardest times, deciding whether I was going to buy food for my animals or dinner for me.''
But he and Ms. Tyree moved on. After selling the contents of his store on eBay, Mr. Dearing landed a job there a few months later. Then he took a post at Stanford's Institute of Design.
''I thought I had one shot to be successful,'' he said. ''I had no idea that my career -- or anybody's career -- is actually a multiround process and that you had many, many at-bats.''
Ms. Tyree opened a marketing and public relations firm, Blab Communications, building on her talents at getting news coverage for her store. She also started writing again. Her publication, Fashion Trends Daily, is now three years old.
This time around, she's not focused on a specific outcome for her project. ''It is such a fabulous vehicle for so many different directions,'' she said. ''I am not looking at it as: will it fail or will it succeed?''
Mr. Dearing would approve. He tells his students that the ''suffering comes from being attached to the outcomes.''
As paradoxical as it sounds, he said, ''If you stop worrying about the outcomes, you will achieve a better outcome.''
And if you asked either of them if they had any lingering pangs about those earlier, dashed dreams, the answer, even with all that money lost, would be no. So, pursue your life dream, whatever it is, but with caution. Or at least a cushion of savings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUCCESS, NOT ON THE FIRST TRY: Michael Dearing with the last pair of shoes from his former shoe business, which he called a ''splat-against-the-wall failure.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



838 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Among Young Inheritors, an Urge to Redistribute

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
MOST people would probably be quite happy to receive an inheritance. They would pay off debt, maybe their mortgage; save for retirement; take a trip or two. It would be blissful, and it would make their lives easier.
Then there are those who have actually received an inheritance, sometimes sizable, and struggled with the accompanying responsibility. How should they manage it? What should they spend it on? Do they even deserve it?
In this group, there is a small subset -- call them trust-fund progressives -- who want to give all or most of the money away while they're young. Some may call these people generous; others may call them naïve about what life has in store.
Consider Greg, a teacher in Oakland, Calif., who asked that his last name be withheld to protect his family. His trust fund, which he received in 1996, when he was 18, was worth $900,000 at its peak. His great-grandfather had made a fortune as a banker in Europe and the United States, he said, and his grandfather, who set up the trust fund for him, had also worked in finance. 
His mother went a different way and got involved in the civil rights movement. She taught Greg about the problems of income inequality in America from an early age, he said.
In 2002, when he was 24, Greg came to the conclusion that he didn't deserve or want all of that money and decided to split his inheritance with two men he grew up with in Cambridge, Mass. Their families had lived communally and he considered them brothers, even though he was biologically an only child.
''After a lifetime of growing up together and sharing our parents, we found ourselves in a really different position economically,'' Greg said. ''That was something I didn't want and didn't feel needed to happen.''
He researched how to split the money among the three of them without anyone incurring taxes. He waited to tell his mother until he was ready to do it. He said she was supportive; her main concern was that he help the men understand the complexities of wealth.
''What I found was that having a lot more money than the people you're close to seems to mean you have two choices, neither of which is great,'' Greg said. ''You can be secretive about your wealth or you can share it with them, but then you're in this weird position of economic power. I felt there was a third choice: you could just change the situation and decide not to have lots more money than people you're close with.''
Greg is far from alone among trust-fund progressives who are looking not only to overturn the image of the trust-fund child drifting through a life of leisure and luxury, but also to level the playing field in their own small way.
Some of them have come together through Resource Generation, a group that allows young inheritors to talk openly about the challenges of wealth. Its members, ages 18 to 35, have wealth that ranges from inheriting a $500,000 house when their parents die to having immediate access to a foundation worth $100 million.
''We definitely have a portion of the community who are giving away all inherited wealth,'' said Sarah Abbott, a chapter organizer for Resource Generation. ''There are also people in the community who are giving half of it away or some such percentage.''
She added, ''We really encourage people to look at their lives and to figure out how to realistically plan to take care of themselves and their future children, but also realistically think about the world we want to see and giving to social change organizations.''
The sums vary. Jessie Spector, the group's program director, inherited a little over $500,000 from her grandparents. So far she has donated a third of it, lent another third to organizations and friends without interest, and made plans to give away the rest in the next three years. Ms. Abbott says she will inherit money in the future but does not know how much. Her mother, who inherited money from her own parents, and father own a glass business in Minnesota.
Even if her inheritance is not huge, Ms. Abbott said she felt she had already been given a tremendous leg up on her generation: her family paid for her college education at Wesleyan, which costs about $60,000 a year.
''I have a pretty incredible safety net,'' she said. ''I have health care and I have the support of my family. I'm someone who can save money, and I feel I have more than I need.''
That fits with Resource Generation's stated mission to make progressive change in the world. Members, Ms. Abbott said, ''see wealth inequality, and they want to be an agent for changing that.'' So they write checks or make low- or no-interest loans to progressive groups or other organizations they believe in, or friends in need.
At the heart of what these trust-fund progressives are doing is a belief that runs counter to the prevailing advice given by trust and estate professionals, if not a broader swath of society. The standard advice goes something like this: People who are fortunate enough to receive an inheritance should manage it well for themselves and future generations, and should try not to dip into the principal.
''Most parents and grandparents want the inheritances left in trusts to have a positive influence, and most encourage philanthropy,'' said James L. Kronenberg, chief fiduciary counsel at Bessemer Trust. ''In these cases, where kids are giving it all away at an early age, it is not entirely contrary to their thinking. Most parents and grandparents would not want to see their children and grandchildren give it away all at once. They would want it done in a more measured and thoughtful way.''
Mr. Kronenberg said most trusts contained ''brakes'' to prevent an inheritor from taking out too much money too quickly, and depending on how the trust is written, the trustee overseeing it can have broad discretion to refuse the beneficiary's requests. But if the beneficiary lies about the purpose of the money, the trustee has little recourse.
''I've never seen the permissible beneficiaries as my child and all of his friends,'' he said. ''If the child says I want the money for something and turns around and gives it to his friends, the trustee can't do much about it.''
Some trust-fund progressives see what they have received as unfair. They want a more just society. In giving away what their family left to them, they feel that they are, in a small way, doing their part to make society less unfair and inequitable.
Ms. Spector told a story of a member who inherited $1 million and gave away about half of it before he had a child with special needs who required expensive medical care. While many people might have regretted donating the money, he has continued to give to charities while also ensuring that his family has financial security.
''In his life now, he's also thinking about how he can support his own family to get the care and support that he needs,'' she said. ''But part of working for social change is supporting networks and infrastructure so anyone from any class background can have a child with a lot of health care needs and have the resources they need.''
In 2007, five years after splitting up his trust fund once, Greg got the urge to divide his money again, this time with a friend from a teaching fellowship. He said he had learned a tremendous amount from her but felt that she was being held back from contributing greatly to society because of her financial situation.
''I was close enough to her that I could see that her capacity to live the way she wanted to and do what she wanted to do was limited by lack of money in a way my life was not,'' Greg said. ''She had student loan debt. She had an old computer that didn't work and had to borrow mine. She couldn't take a break in the summer and had to get summer jobs as a teacher. She had medical care that had to be deferred.''
He added: ''She wasn't poor. She was employed in a middle-class job and had a college degree. It didn't make sense that I could have this life and she couldn't, and I could change it.''
So he split what was left of his $300,000 in half. He said the second time was a little harder. He had been working as a teacher since 2003, and the numbers in the bank meant more to him. Yet he has no regrets. ''That second move put me more in line with the situations of a lot more people who are involved in education,'' he said.
Today, Greg has a partner, a baby and a house. He said that his partner understood why he had split his inheritance and told him that she found him more attractive for putting his money where his mouth was on social change.
''I sometimes experience a fear of scarcity, but it's not regret,'' he said. ''When there are budget cuts, when there are bad choices being made about the economy, I don't feel completely immune to their impact. But I know that at the same time, I'm aware of all of the privilege I still have as a U.S. citizen with white skin, male, a college degree, a union-protected job, owning a home, having health care.''
He added, ''Apart from dollars, these things put me in the top 1 percent of privileged people on this planet.''
It is this sense of having enough that Resource Generation is pushing its members to embrace, even if they understand that people who were born with far less might struggle to understand what they are doing.
''It makes sense that somebody who grows up poor says, 'Hey, if I had a windfall of $100,000 I would hold on to it,' because they probably need it more,'' Ms. Abbott said. ''If you have a lot of class privilege and you grow up wealthy and had a windfall of $100,000, you might look around you and say, 'Actually, I don't need to use this money.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRUST-FUND PROGRESSIVES: Sarah Abbott, left, and Jessie Spector work at Resource Generation, a group for young inheritors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); FAMILY (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: RESOURCE GENERATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



839 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: The Multipurpose Airport

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. LUONGO

 BODY:
Jim Rosenberg, the head of online and social media for the World Bank, can vouch that some airports offer a lot more than places to eat and newsstands filled with gossipy magazines.
On a flight from Washington to Tbilisi, Georgia, Mr. Rosenberg realized during a stop in Munich that he ''didn't have this asthma medicine I take every day,'' he said. But, luckily, the airport had a pharmacy. ''I knew the generic name to tell them what I needed,'' he said. ''They told me I had to go to the clinic for a prescription. It was just down the hall.''
Mr. Rosenberg said he was surprised at how easy it was. ''The most this all cost me was mainly time and money from being disorganized.'' 
Even the most efficient business travelers may find themselves forgetting something or running out of time to take care of a personal errand before a flight. Airports, particularly those in Europe and Asia, are responding by offering an increasing array of services like hair salons, medical clinics and dry cleaners.
Rainer Perry, the United States representative for Düsseldorf International Airport, said that ''the city is known for trade shows and conventions, so we get a lot of business travelers.'' The airport's advantage, Mr. Perry said, is its small size, with all services ''in one terminal building, so no long distances.'' He said the services included meeting rooms, pharmacies, a hairdresser, a post office and an airport dentist, open even on Sundays and holidays, allowing travelers to schedule visits or have emergency dental work between connections.
Wilko W. Geesink, a pharmacist, is the managing director of Apotheek Schiphol Plaza, the pharmacy inside Arrivals Hall 3 in Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, which opened in 2009. Mr. Geesink said his clients included ''locals, people working at Schiphol Airport or living nearby, commuters, travelers, hospitals from abroad, oil platforms, you name it.''
Many business travelers are repeat clients who send ''prescriptions by e-mail in advance, together with their travel schedule,'' he said. ''When they pass by, everything is ready to be picked up and paid for.''
Jonathan Massey, a principal with the airport design firm Corgan Associates, says several factors have led to the expansion of airport services. ''Functionality was once the leading decision point in design,'' he said in an e-mail, ''but now the traveler's ease and experience are among an airport's key priorities.''
He added that passengers had more time than in the past as ''some people try to get to the airport earlier to reduce the stress of the check-in and security procedure, resulting in more time at the gate.'' The expanded services also help airport management ''to increase revenue generation,'' he said.
Foreign airports have led the way in services, Mr. Massey said, starting with duty-free shopping. ''Flying between countries in Europe could be compared to flying between the states in the United States,'' he said, resulting in a much higher percentage of Europeans traveling internationally and supporting a greater range of services.
''Asian airports,'' he added, ''have been innovative in providing amenities that cater to long-haul passengers with very long layovers.'' He cited services as diverse as short-stay hotels, movie theaters and pay-per-use airline lounges.
''The majority of traffic through airports is your typical personal or business traveler,'' he said, but ''airport workers and airline employees also make use of terminals.''
That is the case with the SFO Medical Clinic at San Francisco International Airport, which opened in 1972 and is one of only a handful of airport medical clinics in the United States. ''We do see a lot of travelers in between flights and employees who work at the airport who walk in when they don't feel well,'' said Neil Sol, the clinic's director.
Still, travelers make up only about 15 percent of the clients, he said, an indication it might be underused by passengers who could benefit from one of its specialties, travel health medicine. ''We have an entire component of our clinic dedicated to travel medicine,'' Dr. Sol said.
One new and unusual airport service is dry cleaning. Taeyoung Kim opened JF Kim Dry Cleaners in Terminal 4 at Kennedy Airport in New York in 2010. ''This is unique,'' Mr. Kim said. But he added that virtually all of his customers were airport and airline employees.
Among them is Margarete Viera, a purser with Delta Air Lines, who brings her clothing to JF Kim between flights. ''Since I live in Vermont and am based for Delta in J.F.K., I do not always go home between trips,'' Ms. Viera said. ''They are reasonably priced for New York and an airport.'' She has also had clothes dry-cleaned in Narita International Airport in Tokyo, she said.
Some airport services are behind closed doors, available only to business travelers in airline loyalty programs. That is the case with the hair salon in the Virgin Atlantic JFK Clubhouse Spa in Terminal 4, which opened in February 2012. ''We have many business travelers who actually wait to get their hair cut when they travel through our Clubhouse spa,'' the spa's supervisor, Janet C. Kalin, said in an e-mail.
Whether with hair salons, spas, pharmacies or other services, airports are likely to expand their offerings in the coming years based on what passengers want, said Mr. Massey, of the airport design firm Corgan. ''Social media has played a big role in airports' being able to better understand passenger desires and capture customer feedback on a nearly real-time basis,'' via airport Twitter feeds and Facebook pages.
The human touch still works too, said Mr. Rosenberg, who works for the World Bank. His advice to travelers who unexpectedly need services in an airport is to ''always be proactive about asking for help.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neil Sol, director of the SFO Medical Clinic, in an exam room at San Francisco International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); PHARMACIES (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); PHARMACISTS (76%); DENTISTRY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); TRADE SHOWS (65%); ASTHMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GEORGIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



840 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Skepticism From Court In Drug Case

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Several Supreme Court justices expressed skepticism on Monday about the legality of payments by brand-name drug companies to potential generic competitors in exchange for keeping their cheaper, rival drugs off the market.
Some justices seemed inclined toward a narrow ruling, one that would not create a broader precedent, or a ruling that could leave to a district court judge a decision on whether such payments violate antitrust law, based on the particular facts of a case.
The arguments and questions came in Federal Trade Commission v. Actavis, No. 12-416. In the case, the F.T.C. charged that a payment by Solvay Pharmaceuticals, the holder of a patent on a testosterone gel known as AndroGel, to Actavis represented an unlawful restraint of trade because it was intended to keep Actavis from producing its generic version of AndroGel for a certain number of years. 
That also raises the cost that consumers pay for prescription drugs, the agency argued.
In a standard patent infringement lawsuit, a settlement payment would be made by an infringer to the patent holder. Solvay's deal with Actavis is known as a reverse-payment agreement because payment flows from the brand-name drug company to the generic competitor that is challenging the patent.
Few justices seemed interested in the legal theory put forth by Actavis and other drug companies that such payments were legal as long as they were within ''the scope of the patent'' -- that is, as long as the delay in the market entry of the generic company's drug did not extend beyond the expiration of the brand-name company's patent.
The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld that rule in a 2012 decision that the F.T.C. was appealing. Last year, the F.T.C. won a reverse-payment case before the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; the conflicting decisions brought the issue before the Supreme Court. Eight justices heard arguments on the case on Monday, presenting the possibility that the court could split 4-4. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. recused himself from the case; as is common practice, no reason was given.
The justices focused on the economic effects of the deals. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, for example, noted that the payments seemed to allow a generic company to earn more profits by agreeing to stay off the market than it could earn if it successfully challenged a patent and sold its generic copy of the drug.
''That was my concern, too,'' said Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. ''What the brand company can lose is much greater than what the generic can make. So why don't you just put a cap in what the generic can make and then we won't have a real concern with restraint of trade, or we'll have a lesser concern.''
He added: ''If you key your payment to what the brand company will make,'' as the deals often appear to do, ''it's just a much higher figure and a greater danger of unreasonable restraint.''
The stakes in the dispute are huge. Pharmaceutical sales in the United States totaled roughly $320 billion in 2011, according to IMS Health, a research company whose statistics the agency cites in its arguments.
Brand-name drugs accounted for 18 percent of the total prescriptions written by doctors in 2011 but 73 percent of consumer spending, IMS reported. When a generic version of a brand-name drug comes onto the market, the F.T.C. said, it costs about 15 percent of the original, causing the brand-name drug maker to quickly lose about 90 percent of its market share.
Congress saw the difference that generic drugs could make in health care spending when in 1984 it passed the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act.
That law, with amendments passed roughly 20 years later, encouraged generic drug makers to challenge the patents protecting lucrative brand-name drugs.
The reverse payment trend resulted from a sort of loophole in the Hatch-Waxman law, and at least two justices indicated they were either reluctant to fix that problem for Congress or they did not want any solution to apply broadly to nongeneric drug patent cases.
Justice Antonin Scalia laid the blame on Congress. ''I have a feeling that what happened is that Hatch-Waxman made a mistake,'' he said. ''It did not foresee that it would produce this kind of payment.''
But that was not the court's problem, Justice Scalia added. ''Why should we overturn understood antitrust laws,'' he asked, ''just to patch up a mistake that Hatch-Waxman made?''
Justice Stephen G. Breyer also probed for a limited-scope solution, including letting a Federal District Court judge decide whether a reverse payment appeared to unlawfully restrain trade.
Both Justice Sonia Sotomayor and Justice Elena Kagan said that the consumers were obvious losers when drug companies made reverse payments to settle a patent case.
''It's clear what is going on here,'' Justice Kagan said, ''is that they're splitting monopoly profits, and the person who's going to be injured are all the consumers out there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PATENTS (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

COMPANY: ACTAVIS INC (92%); ACTAVIS GROUP HF (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: ACT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



841 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: The Grown-Up Behind A Tween Phenomenon

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
CHANTILLY, Va. -- If you are one of those people whose lives do not include a girl under the age of 12 -- and in that case, OMG I am SO SORRY for you!!! -- then the ''Dork Diaries,'' a series for tweens that has sold over 10 million copies in less than four years, may have escaped your notice.
Time to get a CLUE!!!!!
The ''Dork Diaries'' are the journals of the socially aspiring, fashion-impaired Westchester Country Day School student Nikki Maxwell. Each volume chronicles one month of the major crises in Nikki's eighth-grade life, like a lack of invitations to cool parties, her crush on Brandon and her tangles with the school snob MacKenzie Hollister -- or as Nikki calls her, that ''KILLER SHARK'' in ''sparkly nail polish.'' Nikki lays it all out with humor, lots of embedded illustrations and plenty of CAPITALIZATION and exclamation points!!!!! 
Channeling Nikki is the job of her creator, Rachel Renée Russell, a 53-year-old divorced former bankruptcy lawyer. The soft-spoken Ms. Russell insists that she is able to build a character that young readers relate to because for many years she too was a dork.
''I never had a date through high school, and my father had to pay a family friend $50 and loan him the Cadillac to get me a date for the prom,'' she said with a laugh.
Yet standing in the marble foyer of the 12,000-square-foot home she recently built here in northern Virginia, about an hour outside of Washington, Ms. Russell strikes a visitor more as a savvy entrepreneur than as anyone's foil.
Ms. Russell's books -- her next one comes out in June -- have drawn comparisons to the ''Diary of a Wimpy Kid'' series that swept the world of tween boys, beginning online in 2004 and in print in 2007. Liesa Abrams, who acquired the ''Dork'' books for Simon & Schuster, said that the ''Wimpy Kid'' phenomenon helped only in that ''the market already understood the format of text and art.'' Otherwise, she said, Ms. Russell's talent and humor made her a natural in her own right.
Ms. Russell has said the ''Wimpy Kid'' books did not influence her choice of subject matter. She had been thinking about the concept for years, she said, inspired by such disparate journal formats as Anne Frank's heartbreaking reflections from the ''secret annex'' and the comic antics of ''The Princess Diaries.''
Her first book in the ''Dork'' series, ''Tales From a Not-So-Fabulous Life,'' released in 2009, was also her first published book, period. But she had the populist touch from the start. Nikki is a kind of Everygirl -- pretty and talented, but always worried that she is not. The comic-style black-and-white drawings that run throughout the books -- first drawn by Ms. Russell and now by her actual daughter Nikki, 27 -- were inspired partly by Disney characters and partly by Japanese manga and have a ready-made mainstream accessibility.
Ms. Russell, an African-American, has also chosen to make Nikki white.
She said she was following the lead of the screenwriter Shonda Rhimes, who created ''Grey's Anatomy'' and its spinoff, ''Private Practice,'' and who has said that black writers should not be typecast into having only black characters.
Also, there was the economics of the situation. ''If you have a character of a different race, your book tends to get put in a category that isn't mainstream, and we wanted something to appeal to everyone,'' Ms. Russell said.
Still, her decision has made her something of a conundrum to those in the book world who want to promote multicultural writers and stories with themes particular to those groups. Kyle Zimmer, the founder of First Book, a nonprofit organization that advocates more diversity in children's books, said the ''Dork Diaries'' did not quite fit the bill.
''When some people are talking about diversity, they want a protagonist and themes from a variety of cultural backgrounds,'' Ms. Zimmer said. While First Book is eager to promote either authors or main characters from a diverse range of cultures, Ms. Zimmer worries that there is a perception that books with minority characters don't sell well, which discourages writers from taking on diverse viewpoints.
But Ms. Russell said that she saw Nikki as an ''Everygirl, all hues mixed together,'' and that the struggle to fit in during middle school was universal. She pointed out that Nikki's best friends were African-American and Latino, though the black-and-white drawings and the complete lack of emphasis on race as a subject make their racial or cultural identity hard to discern.
The book is based on the misadventures of Ms. Russell's own girls. Erin, her other daughter, she said, was tormented by a real-life mean girl, who once popped all the balloons that friends had used to decorate Erin's locker for her birthday. And just as Nikki Maxwell is tripped while carrying her tray in the cafeteria in ''Tales From a Not-So-Popular Party Girl,'' Erin was similarly tripped by a wrestler. (Erin, 29, also works for her mother, helping imagine situations and writing parts of the books.)
Ms. Russell grew up in St. Joseph, Mich., about 100 miles northeast of Chicago, and said the books were also partly based on her own experiences, yet she describes a childhood that sounds decidedly undorky. She played keyboards in an all-girl band and was president of her high school class. She even came an hour short of earning her pilot's license at 15, but her instructor crashed the plane when she wasn't in it.
Her real ambition, even then, was to be an author. However, when she took a creative writing class during college at Northwestern University, her teacher, a children's writer and illustrator of some note, discouraged her. ''If you're thinking seriously of writing as a career,'' she recalled his telling her, ''you might want to think again.''
Ms. Russell became a bankruptcy lawyer instead. She said she loved the work because she could help people with devastating problems. It was only when her daughters left for college and her husband, a dentist, began traveling out of state that she decided to return to writing in 2007. (They divorced in 2008.)
She began a draft of a book about an eighth grader who tries to raise money for a trip to France by planning parties for classmates. When she placed well in the Fire & Ice contest for unpublished authors, she won the attention of Daniel Lazar, a senior agent with the powerhouse literary firm Writers House.
They had finished revisions to another unrelated manuscript and were a day from submitting it to publishers when Ms. Russell mentioned her ''Dork'' project.
''I read it and told her to drop everything and work on this,'' Mr. Lazar recalled.
The books caught on immediately, which has been reflected in Ms. Russell's compensation. She said she received a five-figure advance for the first two books, six figures for the second two, and nearly 10 times as much for her two most recent books, including the next one, ''Tales From a Not-So-Happy Heartbreaker.''
She is also under contract for Nos. 7 and 8.
Asked if she was running out of dorky incidents to share with her readers, Ms. Russell responded with an emphatic no. ''I will do it forever if I can,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ''Dork Diaries'' author Rachel Renée Russell, center, with her daughters Erin, left, and Nikki. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) DRAWING: In the ''Dork Diaries'' Nikki suffers many middle school humiliations. (DRAWING BY RACHEL RENÉE RUSSELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWEENS MARKET (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



842 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Sunshine and Tax Shelters

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Known for its white-sand beaches and killer rums, Puerto Rico hopes to stake a new claim: tax haven for the wealthy.
Since the beginning of the year, the island has gone on a campaign to promote tax incentives that took effect last year, marketing its beautiful beaches, private schools and bargain costs in an effort to lure well-heeled hedge fund managers and business executives to its shores.
So far, Puerto Rico's pitch has attracted a handful of under-the-radar millionaires. Several American executives of mostly smaller financial firms say they have already relocated to the island, and Puerto Rican officials say another 40 persons, mostly from the United States, have applied.
The tax savings could add up to ''at least in the six figures'' each year, said Barry Breeman, an American who said he was moving to Puerto Rico with his wife. Mr. Breeman is the co-founder of the New York-based Caribbean Property Group, a real estate investment firm that has substantial holdings on the island. 
Millionaires are nice, but Puerto Rican officials hope to reel in billionaires like John A. Paulson, the hedge fund manager who Bloomberg News reported earlier this month was weighing a move.
The attention prompted an unusual statement from Mr. Paulson, which declared that he was not relocating. (Still, Mr. Paulson, a 57-year-old New Yorker, had briefly considered a move, say two people with knowledge of his plans.)
If not Mr. Paulson, government officials and real estate brokers in Puerto Rico hope to sell other wealthy mainland Americans on what they hope will become the next Singapore or Ireland as a favored low-tax destination. Puerto Rico is closer and, compared with Ireland, decidedly warmer. And unlike in Switzerland or other havens, in Puerto Rico, Americans do not give up their citizenship.
''There's nothing wrong with spending 183 days a year on a sailboat or yacht and working from here,'' said Alberto Bacó Bagué, the secretary of economic development and commerce for the island, in a telephone interview. ''We're catching up to Ireland and Singapore -- you can shelter income legally, and legally in a good way.''
Puerto Rico is a commonwealth of the United States, but for tax purposes, it is treated differently. Most residents of Puerto Rico, with the exception of federal employees, already pay no federal income tax. A person needs to live 183 days a year on the island to become a legal resident.
The new tax breaks are a twist on the island's tradition of using tax perks to bolster the economy. Puerto Rico's per-capita income is around $15,200, half that of Mississippi, the poorest state in the nation. In 2006, a previous incentive exempting United States companies from paying taxes on profits from Puerto Rican manufacturing ended after Congress said that the incentive had bilked taxpayers.
The new tax breaks are a radical shift in that they focus on financial, legal and other services, not manufacturing. Puerto Rico slashed taxes on interest and dividends to zero from 33 percent, and it lowered taxes on capital gains, a major source of income for hedge fund managers, to zero to 10 percent.
The incentives work with existing United States breaks. While residents still have to file a federal tax return, they do not have to pay capital gains taxes of 15 percent on assets held before moving and sold after 10 years of island residency.
The new tax incentives ''likely will be considered more broadly by some taxpayers as a new opportunity for income shifting and tax deferral,'' said Michael Pfeifer, an international tax lawyer at the law firm Caplin Drysdale in Washington.
Mr. Bacó, the Puerto Rican economic development official, is planning a road show on the East Coast next month to woo financial and law firms as well as wealthy individuals to moving to Puerto Rico.
Because of its new aggressive tax breaks, Puerto Rico is a supercharged version of Florida, which does not tax individuals on ordinary income.
Recently, a business development group in Palm Beach, Fla., wined and dined 10 executives from the Northeast who had flown in for a two-day tour showcasing the state's tax advantages, complete with golf outings, showings of oceanfront office space and a soiree aboard a yacht.
Florida has already landed one big fish: Edward S. Lampert of ESL Investments moved his headquarters from Greenwich, Conn., to near Miami last year.
The sales pitches by Florida and Puerto Rico tap into a growing resentment among affluent people who feel that they have been vilified by politicians or believe they have unfairly become targets for disproportionately higher taxes. In one highly publicized example, the actor Gérard Depardieu, angry over a plan by the French government to raise taxes to 75 percent for the wealthy, accepted a Russian passport from President Vladimir V. Putin. Russia has a flat tax rate of 13 percent.
But a move to Puerto Rico may be easier said than done. Privately, some lawyers and accountants in the United States express concern that individuals who move to the American island for its lower taxes might appear ''unpatriotic'' in a widening crackdown by authorities on offshore tax dodging through Switzerland, Israel and Singapore.
And while the island's tax breaks are legal, some investors say they do not want their hedge fund managers straying too far from their mainland office.
''Citi Private Bank expects hedge fund principals to be in a primary office with their critical employees close by,'' David Bailin, the global head of managed investments for the firm, wrote in an e-mail.
Puerto Rico has been battered by several years of recession. Its unemployment rate is more than 13 percent, well above the national rate, and its economy remains mired. In December, Moody's Investors Services downgraded the island's debt to one notch above junk status; and in a recent research note, Breckenridge Capital Advisors said the island was ''flirting with insolvency.'' The island has the weakest pension fund in America and by some estimates could run out of money as soon as 2014.
An influx of wealthy financiers would provide a much-needed lift to the economy.
Margaret Pena Juvelier is a real estate broker with Sotheby's International Realty who left the Upper East Side last fall to open an office in San Juan. ''We're getting an average of 10 to 15 calls or e-mails a day from people who want to look at homes,'' she said.
Ms. Juvelier often sends a black S.U.V. with a driver in a suit and tie to meet clients, some of whom fly in on private jets and pepper her with questions like ''is there a Whole Foods here?'' and ''if I get really sick, do I have to be medevaced?''
Nicholas Prouty of the investment fund Valivian Advisors, who is moving to San Juan from Greenwich, Conn., said he wanted ''the excitement of having new experiences coupled with the worry of the unknown.''
While the real estate broker Ana González Brunet declines to name names, saying ''discretion to billionaires is important,'' she said multiple individuals had recently looked at the 8,379-square-foot penthouse in the Acquamarina in the chic Condado neighborhood of San Juan. The $5 million condo has underground parking and a panoramic view of the ocean through floor-to-ceiling windows, and is near luxury boutiques like Cartier, Salvatore Ferragamo and Louis Vuitton.
''It's like being in the best part of Manhattan,'' Ms. González Brunet said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Condado neighborhood of San Juan, Puerto Rico, home to luxury apartment buildings and fashionable boutiques. (B1)
 Real estate brokers said Puerto Rico's tax breaks had already stimulated interest in multi-milliondollar luxury apartments near San Juan, above and left. Below, Alberto Bacó Bagué, the island's secretary of economic development and commerce, said, ''We're catching up to Ireland and Singapore -- you can shelter income legally, and legally in a good way.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US TERRITORIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX LAW (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); INCOME TAX (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



843 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: A Sea Change in Less Than 50 Years As Gay Rights Gained Momentum

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The struggle for African-Americans' rights, symbolized by the bloody 1965 Selma march, is as old as the nation. The effort for American women's rights began at Seneca Falls, N.Y., more than 150 years ago.
The modern fight for gay rights is, by contrast, less than a half-century old, dating from the 1969 Stonewall uprising in New York. But this week, as the Supreme Court hears two landmark cases on same-sex marriage, the speed and scope of the movement are astonishing supporters.
''We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths -- that all of us are created equal -- is the star that guides us still, just as it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls, and Selma, and Stonewall,'' President Obama said in his Inaugural Address in January, in a moment of history for gay men and lesbians, who were included in such a speech for the first time. ''Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law.'' 
The changes have been so swift that it is sometimes surprising to remember how many gay men and lesbians were until recently in the closet and how many hurdles there have been along the way. ''We were all hiding,'' said former Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who in 1987 became the first member of Congress to voluntarily disclose his homosexuality. At the time, the public disapproval of homosexuality -- so powerful that gay men and lesbians hesitated to identify themselves, much less seek political change -- helped stunt the movement's emergence.
''This was a population too shy and fearful to even raise its hand, a group of people who had to start at zero in order to create their place in the nation's culture,'' Dudley Clendinen and Adam Nagourney wrote in ''Out for Good,'' their 2001 history of the gay rights movement.
In the past century in American politics, the sources of that reticence were no mystery.
Judeo-Christian teachings, interpreted as condemning homosexuality, provided the backdrop for political debate in a nation more religious than others in the industrialized world. In the United States after World War II, the American Psychiatric Association lent medical and scientific credence to those views by labeling homosexuality a mental disorder.
But cultural changes unleashed in the 1960s began to erode those barriers.
Responding to the early stirrings in major cities like New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, George McGovern became the first presidential candidate to identify himself with the movement by permitting openly gay speakers at the 1972 Democratic National Convention.
Four years later, Jimmy Carter, a Southern Baptist from Georgia, opposed discrimination against gay men and lesbians even as he marshaled support from evangelical Christians. During his presidency, Mr. Carter's public liaison, Midge Costanza, held the first formal White House meeting with gay activists.
But Mr. Carter lost in 1980 to an ascendant Republican Party that, under President Ronald Reagan, melded social and economic conservatism.
Before winning the White House, Mr. Reagan stood with gay activists in helping defeat a California ballot initiative that would have barred gay men and lesbians from teaching in public schools. During his presidency, however, Mr. Reagan kept his distance. Legislation extending civil rights protections to gay men and lesbians, introduced by liberal Democrats beginning in 1974, continued to languish in Congress.
The emergence of AIDS in the 1980s, however, lent the movement new energy and urgency. The epidemic propelled many closeted gay men and lesbians to begin identifying themselves publicly and raised the stakes for elected officials who were suddenly facing votes over the use of tax money to respond to a public health crisis.
Lawmakers aligned with gay activists began making alliances on Capitol Hill that had been impossible on more abstract issues of gay rights.
''When it was purely symbolic, I couldn't get them,'' Mr. Frank recalled of trying to round up supporters for gay rights. ''When people's lives were at stake, I'd get, 'Oh, all right, I guess I have to vote with you.' ''
Bill Clinton, the first baby boomer president, pulled the movement further into the political mainstream. He attended a high-profile gay-sponsored fund-raiser, spotlighted AIDS at his 1992 convention and promised an executive order barring discrimination against gay men and lesbians in the military.
''He brought us inside the Democratic Party,'' said David Mixner, an old friend of Mr. Clinton's from the opposition to the Vietnam War who became his adviser and ambassador to the gay rights movement.
But victories remained intermittent. Democrats lost a landslide midterm election in 1994, leading Mr. Clinton to strike a more conservative tone.
In 1996, he infuriated gay supporters by signing the Defense of Marriage Act, whose constitutionality is being considered this week in one of the same-sex marriage cases before the Supreme Court. The law limited the definition of marriage to unions between a man and a woman.
Mr. Clinton's stance tracked American public opinion, which continued to distinguish gay rights from other civil rights causes. In a 1996 Gallup survey, 68 percent of respondents opposed legal recognition for same-sex marriages. In early 1997, Gallup found a mirror image on interracial marriage, with 64 percent expressing approval.
Public resistance obscured quieter advances elsewhere. Labor unions had long been the movement's ''strongest ally'' in seeking protections for gay workers, said Gregory King, a staff member at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. And as increasing numbers of gay employees became open about their sexuality, major corporations extended benefit programs to cover same-sex couples.
''The private sector was always ahead of the politicians,'' said Hilary Rosen, a Washington public relations consultant active in gay rights causes. So was popular culture, particularly television, which in recent years has presented an array of gay figures in a positive light.
Now those developments, and a rising generation of socially tolerant younger voters who do not regard same-sex marriage as controversial, have turned public opinion on its head.
In November, Gallup found that 53 percent of respondents favored legal recognition of same-sex marriages. A survey last week showed that 54 percent backed benefits for federal employees married to same-sex partners.
Such attitudes have produced a political recalibration that alters the debate, whatever the Supreme Court rules on same-sex marriage rights.
Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, 17 years after her husband backed the Defense of Marriage Act, recently posted a video supporting same-sex marriage. No other potential 2016 Democratic presidential rival has staked an opposing view, or is expected to. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, a prospect for the Republican presidential ticket, announced that he supported same-sex marriage after learning that his adult son was gay.
The pace of change continues to surprise gay rights supporters.
In his youth, Mr. Frank said, he realized he was drawn personally to men and professionally to government. He assumed the former would impede the latter.
''At this point,'' he concluded, ''I think my continued sexual attraction to men is more politically acceptable than my attraction to government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York City's first gay pride parade was held in June 1970, a year after the uprising at the Stonewall Inn in the Village. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL EVANS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELIGION (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); MARRIAGE (56%); APPEALS (56%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%); JIMMY CARTER (53%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



844 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Court Denies Residency To Domestics

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's highest court ruled unanimously on Monday that a woman from the Philippines who had lived and worked here for nearly 27 years as a domestic helper was not entitled to permanent residency, ending an acrimonious legal fight over the immigration rights of migrant workers.
Public opinion surveys had shown that a large majority of Hong Kong citizens opposed granting permanent residency to the city's domestic helpers, which would give them the right to live here for the rest of their lives and use the nearly free public health care system and other social services. Many residents and the local government feared that granting permanent residency would have resulted in increased social spending.
But activists for domestic helpers, along with Mark Daly, the lawyer who championed their cause in the legal battle, contended that denying permanent residency would cement lasting divisions in Hong Kong based on gender and race. Virtually all of the estimated 300,000 foreign domestic helpers in this city of seven million are women, and they are not mainland Chinese, who qualify for separate rules for permanent residency and passports under Hong Kong's Basic Law, the city's miniconstitution. 
The decision on Monday by the Court of Final Appeal, Mr. Daly said, ''is a regrettable decision; it basically entrenches their being second-class citizens.''
Lai Tung-kwok, Hong Kong's secretary for security, welcomed the court's decision, saying at a news conference that the government would rely on it in handling a recent surge in applications from domestic helpers for permanent residency. There were 1,067 such applications filed between September 2011, when the legal effort on behalf of foreign domestic helpers began attracting attention, and the end of last week, according to the city's Immigration Department.
The Hong Kong decision coincides with debates in the European Union and the United States over what legal rights should be extended to illegal immigrants, as opposed to the contract workers in the dispute here.
The landmark case highlighted questions of judicial independence, with Hong Kong's government having put heavy pressure on the court to reject permanent residency for foreign domestic helpers.
In an unusual and highly contentious move, the local government asked the court in advance to refer a central issue in the case to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress in Beijing, which could be expected to side with the Hong Kong government. In issuing its decision in the government's favor, the court said that its ruling meant there was no need to seek a binding legal interpretation from Beijing.
Yet the ruling also made it clear that there could be circumstances in the future in which the court would seek such an interpretation.
With the decision, the judges ''on the one hand maintain the authority of the Court of Final Appeal, and at the same time try not to be too aggressive to the National People's Congress,'' James Sung, a political science professor at the City University of Hong Kong, said in an interview outside the courthouse, a brick mansion downtown.
The decision had been watched around Asia as a sign of whether Hong Kong, a vast majority of whose population is ethnic Chinese, would embrace a more multiethnic future. Rimsky Yuen, Hong Kong's secretary for justice, said that the territory would ''certainly endeavor to maintain Hong Kong as a cosmopolitan society.''
The ruling also comes as China's new president, Xi Jinping, has spoken in a series of speeches of a ''China dream'' that blends nationalism and socialism in calling for a muscular military combined with an economic rejuvenation of China under Communist Party guidance.
There was no immediate reaction to the ruling from the Hong Kong consulates of the Philippines and Indonesia, the two countries that provide the largest number of domestic helpers to Hong Kong. Both countries have also been warily watching China's increasingly assertive territorial claims in the South China Sea and the East China Sea, which particularly affect Brunei, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam.
The Basic Law provides that people who are ''ordinarily resident'' in the city for at least seven years are entitled to permanent residency. But Hong Kong's immigration ordinance says that no matter how many years people live in the city as contract workers, they do not count as ''ordinarily resident'' during those years.
Mr. Daly and his clients, Evangeline B. Vallejos and Daniel L. Domingo, challenged the immigration ordinance as an unconstitutional violation of the Basic Law. A lower court had ruled in their favor, while an appellate court had ruled against them.
The Court of Final Appeal ruled against both of them. But because of rare and complex circumstances in Mr. Domingo's case, the separate case on behalf of Ms. Vallejos, who has worked in Hong Kong since 1986 and will turn 61 this year, has been at the center of the broader controversy.
An important issue in the litigation lay in whether the ''natural and ordinary meaning'' of the language of the Basic Law should be paramount, most notably in interpreting the term ''ordinarily resident,'' or whether a broader statutory context should be considered. The court ruled that the broader context should be used.
In its lengthy decision, the court noted that foreign domestic helpers entered Hong Kong under visas that required them to return to their country of origin every two years before starting another two-year contract. The court also pointed out that the helpers were ''told from the outset that admission is not for the purposes of settlement, and that dependents cannot be brought to reside in Hong Kong.''
Politicians opposed to granting permanent residency to domestic helpers had contended that it could result in the city's being flooded by their dependents, who are not currently allowed to come to Hong Kong.
Christopher Chung, a member of Hong Kong's legislature from the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, welcomed the court's decision, saying that ''when these foreigners come to Hong Kong, their one and only aim is to be a domestic helper.''
In deciding not to seek a legal interpretation on citizenship issues from the Standing Committee in Beijing, the Court of Final Appeal left unresolved another acrimonious issue in Hong Kong: whether the children of mainland Chinese should continue to be entitled to full Hong Kong citizenship if born in the territory. Hong Kong's strong educational system and excellent medical care, along with the visa-free access that Hong Kong passports provide to 146 countries and territories, led to a surge in mainland women who came to the city to give birth.
The local government has banned mainland mothers without a Hong Kong husband from scheduling births at Hong Kong hospitals since the start of January, and it said late Monday that it would continue to review legal measures that might make citizenship harder to obtain for the Hong Kong-born offspring of mainland couples.
The Hong Kong Bar Association issued a statement urging the local government to refrain from involving the National People's Congress in the issue, cautioning that this would undermine the rule of law here.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eman Villanueva, a spokesman for a labor rights group, spoke to reporters Monday outside a court in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE SIU/REUTERS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) HONG KONG (99%); PHILIPPINES (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



845 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: On Second Look, Markets Retreat on Cyprus Bailout

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Financial markets, which had begun the day buoyant Monday after Cyprus reached a late-night bailout agreement with international lenders, headed downward as the day wore on and investors and analysts began to digest the terms of the deal.
Reaction from European capitals was mixed. German officials greeted the deal with relief and sought to reassure Cypriots. But Russia's prime minister, Dmitri A. Medvedev, decried it as ''stealing,'' referring to the provisions for a bank tax that could fall largely on Russian depositors.
Even so, the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, instructed his government to reopen negotiations with the Cypriots to restructure a &#x20ac;2.5 billion, or $3.2 billion, loan that Russia provided to the island nation in 2011. Talks on extending the repayment period had broken off last week, as Moscow awaited the outcome of the bailout negotiations between Cyprus and the European Union.
In Athens, a government spokesman said the deal was ''painful'' but necessary, while the president criticized the European Union for taking too tough a line with the Cypriot government. 
Casting a negative light were remarks by the Dutch finance minister, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the Eurogroup of finance ministers that helped forge the bailout pact. In an interview with Reuters, Mr. Dijsselbloem said the Cyprus bailout could be a new template for resolving regional banking problems by shifting more risk to depositors and stakeholders.
''What we've done last night is what I call pushing back the risks,'' Mr. Dijsselbloem said, according to Reuters.
Later Monday, on the Web site for the euro area, Mr. Dijisselbloem insisted that bailout programs like the one for Cyprus ''are tailor-made to the situation of the country concerned and no models or templates are used.''
Of the 17 euro zone members, Cyprus, Greece, Ireland and Portugal have all received bailouts since the sovereign debt crisis began. The deal announced Monday marked the first time that junior and senior bondholders, as well as large depositors, have been required to bear part of the pain -- possibly setting a precedent for any future bailouts.
Yields, or interest rates, on Italian and Spanish government debt, had started that day down, but later rose. That movement, indicating an increase in the governments' borrowing costs, were a sign that investors may be nervous that Cyprus's problems could have a contagion effect in other financially challenged euro zone countries.
European stock markets closed down for the day. The Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark of euro zone blue chips, ended off 1.2 percent, while the main French index, the CAC 40, was down more than 1 percent. The German DAX was down 0.5 percent.
U.S. stocks, which had opened moderately higher, also gave back those gains.
Cypriot markets were closed Monday for a public holiday, leaving officials just one day to nail down critical details before banks were to reopen Tuesday.
Late in the European day on Monday, Cypriot officials said that while most of the country's banks would reopen on Tuesday for the first time in more than a week, the two biggest ones -- which are most subject to the terms of the bailout deal -- would not remain closed until Thursday. That was a further sign that kinks still needed to be worked out in the plan to prop up those institutions.
The bailout deal will eventually lead to Laiki Bank, a troubled lender, being shut down, with its ''good'' assets being absorbed by Bank of Cyprus, the nation's largest. Junior and senior bondholders would take losses, as would depositors in the bank with accounts holding more than &#x20ac;100,000. Foreign depositors, including Russians and Britons, hold an outsized share of the uninsured deposits.
Accounts of less than &#x20ac;100,000 would be protected. Outrage over the original bailout plan, which would have included a hit on insured deposits, contributed to Parliament's rejection of the deal and caused fears across Europe that the conditions for bank runs were being created by short-sighted policy.
The agreement ensures, crucially, that the European Central Bank will continue providing funding to Cypriot banks. The E.C.B. had turned up the pressure last week, setting a Monday deadline for a deal and saying it would no longer provide the low-interest loans on which the island's banks depend if a deal were not reached. The accord early Monday should remove any possibility of a near-term catastrophe.
European finance ministers said in a statement that the program would address the exceptional challenges that Cyprus is facing and restore the viability of the financial sector, with the view of ''restoring sustainable growth and sound public finances over the coming years.''
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany made an unusually lengthy statement on Monday in which she sought to reassure the Cypriot people by underlining the agreement's aim to protect smaller savers and provide Cyprus with a stable future.
''I think that we were able to achieve a fair division of the burden,'' Ms. Merkel said. ''We have always said that we do not want taxpayers to save the banks, but the banks must save themselves.''
Ms. Merkel pledged that Cyprus's European partners would support the country through loans worth &#x20ac;10 billion in the coming years. ''That means that the I.M.F. and European taxpayers are helping Cyprus to start down a new path,'' the chancellor said.
Whether the soothing words from Berlin would be enough to convince Cypriots, and citizens of other smaller and beleaguered European countries, that German leaders actually have their best interest at heart remains to be seen. Experts have argued in recent days that an overall loss of trust in those leaders previously seen to be managing the crisis could remain a troubling element of collateral damage resulting from the mishandling of the first rescue package for Cyprus.
The German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, looking as exhausted as he did relieved, said Monday the deal encompassed everything that Germany had ''believed was right all along,'' naming the restructuring of Cyprus' banks, introduction of standards against money laundering and increased transparency.
''I think it is a good result,'' Mr. Schäuble told reporters in Berlin. He described the talks as long, difficult and intense, but praised the resulting agreement as fair to all parties involved.
Senior officials in Russia, however, responded with sharply critical assessments of the agreement.
''They keep stealing from the thieves, it seems to me,'' Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev said, in comments carried by the Interfax news agency that were a paraphrasing of a Russian revolution-era slogan used to describe expropriating the wealth of the rich.
Mr. Medvedev, speaking in a meeting with a deputy prime minister, Igor Shuvalov, said the consequences of imposing losses on depositors should be studied carefully.
The restructuring of the two largest Cypriot banks may well cost Russian depositors more than the bank tax would have. The exact loss will not be known for some time. Estimates, though, range from 30 percent to 60 percent of the value of large deposits in the most wobbly of the two banks, Cyprus Popular Bank.
Mr. Shuvalov, the deputy prime minister, saw a silver lining in the losses, saying the crisis would encourage Russians to keep money at home. ''It is a signal,'' he said, to bring money home. ''We have very stable banks,'' he said, Interfax reported.
There were mixed reactions in Greece, with the fragile coalition government issuing cautious messages of solidarity with the Cypriot government and the president, who has significant influence but limited executive powers, criticizing the European Union for its tough treatment of Nicosia.
Greece's government spokesman, Simos Kedikoglou, indicated that the agreement was a necessary evil. ''It is painful, but it averts the descent into chaos that a disorderly default and an exit from the euro zone would have brought,'' he said, noting that the focus now should be on ''helping Cyprus stand back on its feet.''
President Karolos Papoulias, speaking at a military parade in Athens to mark the 192nd anniversary of Greece's independence from Turkish rule, said the Cyprus bailout was ''unacceptable because it is selective.''
''The European Union must not choose its victims,'' he said, ''because it is dashing the dreams of European people that the E.U. can provide a shelter for the weak.'' He added that he hoped this message was ''received in all major capitals, and especially in Berlin.''
Melissa Eddy in Berlin, Andrew E. Kramer in Moscow and Niki Kitsantonis in Athens contributed reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BONDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (96%); CYPRUS (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



846 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: France Seeks Slower Pace of Negotiations for a U.S.-Europe Trade Pact

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
PARIS -- If anyone thought working out a free-trade agreement between the United States and the European Union was going to be easy, France has a message: Slow down.
''We will all win, provided we don't rush,'' the French trade minister, Nicole Bricq, told journalists on Monday after meeting with French business leaders. She said that a trade agreement, which would create a zone accounting for 40 percent of world trade, could provide a ''formidable'' lift to jobs and economic growth, but that the European Union should use access to its market, the world's largest, as leverage to ensure it obtained a good deal.
She also suggested that a plan to have the 27 members of the bloc provide the European Commission with a mandate for negotiations by mid-June could turn out to be too ambitious, saying, ''This is a very tight schedule.'' 
Efforts to bolster global commerce under the auspices of the World Trade Organization have gone nowhere in recent years, so many nations are seeking bilateral agreements. Ms. Bricq was speaking Monday not long after officials in Tokyo and Brussels announced the start of negotiations for a Japan-Europe free-trade area. In addition to the economic benefits from reducing barriers to business, officials in Washington, Tokyo and Brussels have expressed hope that such arrangements will allow them to form a common front to set global trade rules in the face of a rising China.
Ms. Bricq appeared to be seeking to lower expectations that were raised last month by European and United States officials, including President Obama, who endorsed a trade deal in his State of the Union address, and Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, who said an agreement was possible before the end of 2014. European officials, including the trade commissioner, Karel De Gucht, have also sounded optimistic about the prospects for an agreement.
Germany and Britain have signaled eagerness to reach a deal, but Ms. Bricq, a member of President François Hollande's Socialist Party, sounded considerably less enthusiastic.
She said any agreement would have to overcome a number of problems, including a ''red line'' on ''l'exception culturelle'' -- France's insistence on special treatment to protect its homegrown culture.
''We want to exclude from the negotiations everything that concerns culture,'' she said.
She said other potential deal-breakers included Europe's opposition to genetically modified crops and the use of hormones in meat, practices that are common in the United States. And any accord would have to pass muster with trade unions and with the European Parliament, she said.
France's caution notwithstanding, the European Union and its trading partners are considering measures that would have been unthinkable just a few short years ago. The free-trade talks between Europe and Japan are a case in point.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan; the European Council president, Herman Van Rompuy; and the European Commission president, José Manuel Barroso, said Monday that they had agreed to work toward a ''deep and comprehensive'' free-trade agreement that would ''stimulate economic growth both in Japan and in the E.U.''
The three spoke in a conference call after a meeting that had been scheduled to begin Monday in Tokyo was postponed because of the crisis in Cyprus.
European leaders say a trade agreement with Japan would generate 400,000 jobs and add as much as 0.8 percent to the bloc's gross domestic product.
Mr. Abe, who took office last December, is eager to break down barriers with Japan's main trading partners as he tries to revitalize the long-stagnant Japanese economy. He said this month that Japan would join negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a pact led by the United States that would encompass almost 40 percent of the global economy.
Mr. Abe wants Japanese exporters to regain ground lost to rivals, particularly in South Korea, which has already reached trade deals with the European Union and the United States. But he faces opposition at home from a powerful farming lobby, which has benefited from high tariffs on agricultural produce and argues that free trade will destroy the country's rural economy.
The agricultural tariffs deemed most critical to Japan will remain off the table in the trans-Pacific negotiations, Mr. Abe has promised. Tokyo could seek similar exemptions in talks with the European Union.
Ms. Bricq said that French companies, including most of the industrial sector, were largely in favor of opening negotiations with the United States and that most saw the harmonization of regulations -- in areas like technical standards, chemical ingredients and intellectual property -- as being the primary benefit. But the troubled French auto companies Renault and PSA Peugeot Citroën are opposed.
French farmers, she said, believed overwhelmingly that nontariff barriers were the primary concern and wanted to ensure that their American counterparts were bound by the same sanitation, environmental and animal welfare rules as Europeans.
Meat and egg producers, corn growers and ethanol producers want to be excluded from any tariff-reducing deal, she said, because they think Americans have unfair advantages in those areas.
The biggest problem to overcome, though, could be the question of reciprocity with the United States, she said.
She was particularly critical of ''Buy American'' provisions that oblige the government to buy domestically made goods when possible. The union says those measures have harmed European companies by excluding them from the public procurement market.
''The United States talks free trade,'' Ms. Bricq said, ''but the practice is somewhat different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicole Bricq, the French minister for foreign trade, said of the negotiations, ''This is a very tight schedule.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); POLITICS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (60%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (66%); RON KIRK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (92%); JAPAN (87%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



847 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: With Speech, Petraeus Returns to Public Life, 'Keenly Aware' of Altered Reputation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Since he resigned as director of the Central Intelligence Agency last November after acknowledging an extramarital affair, David H. Petraeus has all but vanished from the national scene.
But in a speech on Tuesday night, Mr. Petraeus will seek to open a new chapter in his career -- one that carves out a role for himself as a voice on energy, economic and veterans issues and in the private sector.
Mr. Petraeus's speech, which will take place at an event honoring veterans and the R.O.T.C. program at the University of Southern California, will begin with an account of the ''personal journey'' he has undergone since his resignation. 
''Needless to say, I join you keenly aware that I am regarded in a different light now than I was a year ago,'' Mr. Petraeus will say, according to an advance text of his speech that was made available to The New York Times.
''I am also keenly aware that the reason for my recent journey was my own doing,'' he will say. ''So please allow me to begin my remarks this evening by reiterating how deeply I regret -- and apologize for -- the circumstances that led me to resign from the C.I.A. and caused such pain for my family, friends and supporters.''
The resignation of Mr. Petraeus, one of America's most decorated four-star generals, marked a stunning end to a meteoric career in which he helped draft the military's field manual on counterinsurgency; commanded the American-led coalition during the troop ''surge'' in Iraq; led the military effort in the more fraught Afghan conflict; and became the director of the C.I.A., where he urged, unsuccessfully, that the White House provide arms to a select cadre of Syrian rebels.
President Obama accepted Mr. Petraeus's resignation on Nov. 9, after Mr. Petraeus acknowledged the affair with a biographer, Paula Broadwell.
Overnight, Mr. Petraeus left behind the days in which he would start work at 5 a.m. in a specially constructed intelligence office at his Arlington, Va., home before arriving at the C.I.A. at 7:15 a.m. Instead, he lived a largely homebound existence in which much of his contact with current and former associates was by e-mail.
After resigning, Mr. Petraeus testified behind closed doors to Congress about the Sept. 11, 2012, attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, but avoided public appearances and turned down a stack of news media requests to tell his story.
In recent months, however, Mr. Petraeus has increasingly appeared in public for lunches and dinners with former colleagues, foreign officials, members of Congress and policy experts. He met not long ago in New York with Fouad Ajami, the Middle East scholar, and recently attended a small off-the-record seminar on Iran at a Washington research institution.
Acquaintances of Mr. Petraeus say he supported Mr. Obama's decision to nominate John O. Brennan as his successor at the C.I.A., a view he communicated privately to two Republicans, Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, as well as to Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat and chairwoman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
Mr. Petraeus has received offers from the financial community and has taken trips to New York to explore what one of his associates called ''long-term opportunities.'' He has been asked to serve as a consultant to major companies, been offered the opportunity to give paid speeches and is exploring positions in academia. Mr. Petraeus, 60, is also keeping up his physical fitness regimen, alternating between daily seven-mile runs and 25-mile bike rides.
His post-government life is being managed by Robert B. Barnett, a lawyer who handles book deals for the Washington elite and who counts the last three American presidents as clients.
Mr. Barnett said that Mr. Petraeus ''has spent a lot of time with his family, and their collective focus is forward.''
Tuesday's speech was arranged long before Mr. Petraeus resigned. The University of Southern California, which describes itself one of the few universities to have maintained an unbroken relationship with the R.O.T.C. since World War II, has been active in helping veterans.
A major theme of the speech is the importance of supporting the families of military personnel who have perished in America's wars, caring for wounded service members and honoring the service of veterans.
''There is often a view that, because an individual was a great soldier, he or she will naturally do well in and transition effortlessly to the civilian world,'' Mr. Petraeus will say while listing some of the nonprofit veterans groups he is supporting. ''In reality, the transition from military service to civilian pursuits often is quite challenging.''
Mr. Petraeus's wife, Holly, who works in Washington at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which handles consumer complaints from military service members and their families, will not be attending the event.
Toward the close of the speech, Mr. Petraeus will return again to his own missteps.
''I know that I can never fully assuage the pain that I inflicted on those closest to me and on a number of others,'' he will say. ''I can, however, try to move forward in a manner that is consistent with the values to which I subscribed before slipping my moorings and, as best as possible, to make amends to those I have hurt and let down.''
Mr. Petraeus will also say that ''life doesn't stop with such a mistake; it can and must go on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David H. Petraeus during a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee in June 2010. He has kept a low profile since resigning as C.I.A. director in November after acknowledging an affair, but a speech on Tuesday night signals that he is seeking a new role. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAVID PETRAEUS SCANDAL (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VETERANS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TESTIMONY (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); WRITERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



848 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: After Conquering Snow, U.S. Now Faces Altitude

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- The Iditarod will not break out here Tuesday when the United States faces Mexico in a World Cup qualifying match. There will be a significant increase in elevation, smog and opponent's skill level. But snowplows will not be on standby at Estadio Azteca. The only white stuff likely to fall is confetti.
Still, bruised feelings continued to pile up like snowdrifts after the Americans' 1-0 victory over Costa Rica in blizzardlike conditions on Friday night outside Denver. The Costa Rican soccer federation has lodged an official protest with FIFA, soccer's world governing body, seeking to have the game replayed in more favorable conditions. 
The Costa Rican federation said in a statement that the ''physical integrity'' of the players and officials became compromised, that ball movement ''became impossible,'' and the lack of visibility of the lines on the field violated FIFA regulations.
On Monday, FIFA said it would make a decision ''in due course.'' Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, declined to comment on the protest. Coach Jurgen Klinsmann answered with a verbal shrug.
''If you're down, you want to have it repeated; if you're up, you want to have it finished and move on,'' he said. ''That's normal.''
Of more immediate concern for Klinsmann was collecting the United States' first victory in a qualifying match in Mexico and replacing the injured Jermaine Jones in midfield. Jones sustained an ankle injury in the first half of the Costa Rica match, received two stitches for a cut and was subbed out in the 83rd minute. Maurice Edu or Kyle Beckerman would be a likely replacement, though Klinsmann could start both if he preferred three central midfielders.
The United States is 0-13-1 in World Cup qualifying matches in Mexico and 1-23-1 over all in matches south of the border. Azteca remains one of the largest and most imposing stadiums in international soccer. It is situated at 7,200 feet and holds 105,000 fans, who enjoy nothing more than defeating the Americans. Soccer is one endeavor in which Mexico has been able to claim superiority in the face of the strong economic, cultural and political influence of the United States.
''The first 20 minutes is always the worst; you can't breathe,'' DaMarcus Beasley, who played superbly for the United States at left back against Costa Rica and who plays with Puebla in the Mexican League, said of the altitude at Azteca.
And yet, Beasley added, Azteca does not seem to be the same impenetrable fortress it once was. Make no mistake. It is forbidding for visitors to win anyplace in Mexico. El Tri has lost only one qualifying match at home, to Costa Rica in 2001. But the Americans won at Azteca in a friendly last August. And in the current round of qualifying, Mexico slogged through a disappointing 0-0 draw at home to Jamaica.
A defeat would hardly be disastrous for the United States as it tries to reach the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. Recrimination from a discouraging loss at Honduras and subsequent questions about Klinsmann's tactics and leadership seemed to disappear, or at least be muffled, in the piles of snow against Costa Rica. A draw on Tuesday would be heartily welcomed, with the Americans then set to play four of their remaining seven qualifying matches at home.
Three teams from the North American, Central American and Caribbean region will automatically qualify for the World Cup, while the fourth-place team will enter a playoff against New Zealand. While the Americans are suddenly buoyant, Mexico is unsettled after collecting only two ties in its first two qualifying matches. El Tri blew a 2-0 lead in Honduras on Friday, wilting in brutal heat and settling for a 2-2 tie. There is speculation here that the crowd could turn on Mexico on Tuesday night if it starts poorly and that a defeat could result in the firing of its coach, José Manuel de la Torre.
''This is their life,'' said Herculez Gomez, the American forward who plays with Santos Laguna of the Mexican league. ''There is no Hollywood here. There is no N.F.L. There is no M.L.B., no N.B.A., Nascar, N.H.L., any of that. It's football. They breathe and die this.''
As always, though, there will be little room for error for the Americans here. Of particular concern will be the movement off the ball and the intuitive poaching of Javier Hernández, the Manchester United forward known as Chicharito, who has delivered 30 goals in 45 games for the Mexican national team. Omar Gonzalez and Clarence Goodson of the United States have played together only once in central defense for the team -- on Friday against Costa Rica.
Anyone who remembers the 5-0 thrashing of the United States by Mexico in the final of the 2009 Gold Cup also knows that the Americans must remain vigilant against the predatory elegance of the attacking midfielder Giovani dos Santos. But the Americans appear to sense a real opportunity Tuesday.
''I think it's one of those games that you're hungry for,'' Klinsmann said. ''I want them to go on the field and be confident and give them a real game. We want to win here. This is our goal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mexico's Javier Hernández, center, will present a challenge Tuesday for the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO GUZMAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (98%); COSTA RICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



849 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Russian Authorities Raid Amnesty International Office

BYLINE: By DAVID HERSZENHORN and ANDREW ROTH

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The Russian authorities on Monday raided the local headquarters of the human rights group Amnesty International, the latest in a continuing series of office searches intended to put pressure on nongovernmental groups.
The head of Amnesty's office in Russia, Sergei Nikitin, said in a telephone interview that officials from the general prosecutor's offices and from the tax police arrived unannounced on Monday morning to conduct what they described as an ''audit'' and demanded a list of documents, most of which Mr. Nikitin said were already on file with the government.
''They're sitting and waiting for me to bring the originals and copies,'' Mr. Nikitin said. ''This is ongoing because we, of course, were not expecting them today.'' 
He added: ''They don't have any concrete complaints. They say it's a regular check and other cliché phrases.''
Last week, the authorities conducted a similar raid at the offices of Memorial, an international historical society and human rights group that has operated in Russia and other post-Soviet states for more than two decades.
Pavel Chikov, a member of Russia's presidential human rights council, said offices of dozens of nonprofit organizations had been searched across Russia in March, including at least 20 organizations on Monday.
''We can definitely say it's been the most active day for these searches so far,'' he said in a telephone interview.
The Kremlin has taken steps in recent months seeking to clamp down on nonprofit organizations, particularly those that receive financing and other support from abroad, and the Russian Parliament has adopted a battery of legislation including various new restrictions and requirements.
Depending on how they are financed, certain groups, for instance, are now required to register as ''foreign agents.'' And certain types of nonprofit groups working in the political realm are barred from employing foreigners in leadership positions.
A representative for the Ministry of Justice told the Interfax news service on Monday that information from the raids would be used to check compliance with the new law on foreign agents. The ministry has not made any charges under the new law since its adoption last year.
Some groups that received substantial financing from abroad, including organizations that worked with the United States Agency for International Development, have moved their offices out of Russia. In September, the Kremlin ended its cooperation with U.S.A.I.D., which had included more than 20 years of partnership on various projects, including public health and civil society campaigns in Russia.
In the past, Russian officials have used a number of bureaucratic tactics, including complex registration schemes and even accusations of software piracy, to disrupt the activities of nonprofits they do not trust.
In February, President Vladimir V. Putin cautioned top officials in Russia's security services, the F.S.B., to beware of nongovernmental organizations that may ''meddle'' in the country's internal affairs.
In Moscow, Mr. Nikitin said the prosecutors and tax police were accompanied by a crew from the government-controlled NTV television channel, which is known for producing salacious reports about critics of the government.
''Right behind them came employees from the state television NTV, who aren't leaving and are trying to break in,'' he said. ''They're knocking, calling, and this is creating additional difficulties for us in this unpleasant situation.'' He added that the officials on site professed no knowledge of how NTV had learned of the raid.
On Thursday, NTV showed footage from a raid at the offices of Memorial, in a segment titled ''Memorial Is Hiding Its Revenue From the General Prosecutor.''
But Mr. Nikitin said the government's actions were far more concerning. ''All of this is a form of scaring us. It's a way for them to show that they aren't taking their eyes off of us,'' he said. ''You can call it a toughening of the government's relationship to rights organizations, because in the past we have never faced these smear campaigns.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (71%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); FOREIGN LABOR (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (93%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



850 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Plan Starts Small for Big Upgrade to Rail System

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Later this spring, Bostonians eager to flee to Cape Cod for the weekend will have an option other than sitting in bumper-to-bumper traffic for 70 miles and fuming along with everyone else.
Starting May 24, they can hop a train to Hyannis, where regional buses, ferries and rental cars will await to whisk them out to the beaches, islands and wind-swept dunes.
The train, the first passenger service to the cape since 1995, is one small piece of a major $13 billion transportation overhaul envisioned by Gov. Deval Patrick. That overhaul is aimed chiefly at repairing and upgrading worn-out bridges, roads and commuter lines in Massachusetts, but about 20 percent of it would go toward reviving train service to the cape and elsewhere in the state.
Mr. Patrick said that upgrading these in-state routes would spur economic development. It would also provide important links for Amtrak's long-range plans to establish high-speed train service throughout New England. 
The package is the most sweeping and future-oriented of Mr. Patrick's tenure. But it faces some high hurdles. It would require a major tax increase. And it faces a skeptical public still recovering from what people here call the Big Dig hangover -- the multibillion-dollar debt from the nation's most expensive highway project.
Mr. Patrick, a Democrat, had nothing to do with the Big Dig but the project deferred investments that he says should have been made in aging infrastructure and increased repair costs that are necessary now.
''The plan is ambitious,'' said Stephanie Pollack, a transportation specialist at the Dukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy at Northeastern University. ''And it's depressing that this is considered ambitious when most of the money is going to fixing what we have now.''
But, she said, ''this is probably the first time in decades that Massachusetts has stepped back and said, 'Here's what we need to do for the next quarter century.' ''
In addition to service to the cape, Mr. Patrick has proposed reviving service from Boston to Fall River and New Bedford as well as from the Berkshires to the Connecticut border to enable future service to New York City. He has proposed extending service to Medford. He has also called for an $850 million expansion of the number of tracks at Boston's South Station to accommodate more commuter lines and longer-distance Amtrak trains. The station now is a major bottleneck that causes serious delays.
Amtrak's plans for high-speed rail include service from Portland, Me., to New York City along an inland route through Springfield, Mass., and one between Boston and New York that would cut travel time to 90 minutes from the current three hours and 40 minutes.
To pay for his transportation package, as well as some new education programs, Mr. Patrick has proposed $1.9 billion in new taxes, one of the biggest levies Massachusetts has seen in a generation. He would raise the state income tax to 6.25 percent from 5.25 percent and lower the state sales tax to 4.5 percent from 6.25 percent. Residents who make more than $102,000 a year would shoulder most of the burden.
Mr. Patrick, who is not seeking re-election in 2014, is spending much of his political capital trying to convince both citizens and legislators that ''high-impact'' transportation projects can pay for themselves.
For example, the governor's administration says, the South Coast rail line to Fall River and New Bedford would cost $1.8 billion, but it would create 3,800 jobs and generate $500 million a year in economic growth.
''The public will pay more if they see their sacrifice is actually going to net them a specific good,'' said Richard A. Davey, the state's transportation secretary, who is conducting an aggressive campaign to help sell the governor's package. It includes a Web site that allows residents to see exactly what the spending would mean in their localities.
But the tax proposal has drawn ridicule from Republicans and a cool reception from the legislature, which is overwhelmingly Democratic. The speaker of the House, Robert A. DeLeo, wants to downsize the governor's wish list, which is leading to intense negotiations over which parts of the package might be cut. At the same time, Mayor Will Flanagan of Fall River, for example, says he will hold the governor to his promise to veto the entire package if South Coast rail is dropped.
The proposal comes as passenger trains, particularly on routes under 400 miles, are rebounding across much of the country and proving a boon to economic development.
''American passenger rail is in the midst of a renaissance,'' said a new report from the Brookings Institution, which attributed the increase in part to partnerships between Amtrak and the federal and state governments.
One of the most successful of those partnerships is the Downeaster, which has been running the 100-plus miles between Boston and Portland since 2001 and was extended up the Maine coast to Brunswick in November. Massachusetts paid for track upgrades within its borders, but Maine pays for the train and Amtrak runs it.
Ridership on the Downeaster, which serves lobster rolls and clam chowder in its cafe car, has climbed steadily. Its success has allowed it to increase the number of round trips and speed up travel time while spurring economic development along the way.
''The value we get out of it is tremendous,'' said Patricia Quinn, executive director of the Northern New England Passenger Rail Authority, which manages the Downeaster. She said hundreds of new housing units had been built close to the train stations, and old mills had been transformed into office and retail space.
''There is $300 million in development ongoing,'' she said.
Such regional trains are catching on in some unlikely places.
In Virginia, the legislature last month approved tax increases proposed by Gov. Bob McDonnell, a Republican, to pay for a transportation package that would, among other things, help restore in-state passenger train service.
In New Hampshire, a black hole in New England's passenger train network, gains by Democrats have resulted in support for study of a Capitol Corridor train between Boston and Concord.
Perhaps the most ambitious state rail project in the country is the planned 520-mile bullet train in California between Los Angeles and San Francisco, though projected cost estimates have run as high as $100 billion.
In Massachusetts, the train to the cape, called the CapeFlyer, will cost a modest $21 million over five years. It is able to start Memorial Day weekend -- before legislative action on the governor's package -- because it is a pilot project that extends a commuter line, so the tracks and train cars already exist. The service will be limited to weekends, which is when car traffic piles up.
''We only need to carry 700 folks a weekend to break even,'' said Thomas S. Cahir, administrator of the Cape Cod Regional Transit Authority, which will operate the Flyer. ''We anticipate we will exceed that.''
Considering that 250,000 people drive on and off the cape every weekend, the train might reduce traffic by less than one percent.
Nonetheless, said Julie Quintero-Schulz, the transit authority's mobility manager, ''we're trying to provide an alternative service to lessen the traffic congestion.''
Though the Flyer's impact might be minimal, any early success could help the governor build momentum for his proposal as he and the legislature settle in for some hard bargaining.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Downeaster, left, runs between Boston and Portland, Me., in a partnership with Amtrak. Gov. Deval Patrick hopes revived service to New Bedford, center, can lead to economic growth.
Mr. Patrick's plan calls for an $850 million expansion at Boston's South Station to accommodate more commuter lines and longer distance Amtrak trains. (A12)
 Gov. Deval Patrick has proposed a plan to ease the bottleneck of trains at Boston's South Station, left, and lay the groundwork for Amtrak's planned high-speed trains throughout New England. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN McGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS: Proposed Rail Projects In Massachusetts (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FERRIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); BEACHES (71%); TAX LAW (66%); CITIES (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: TOLL HOLDINGS LTD (92%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

TICKER: TOL (ASX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (92%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (92%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (92%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (92%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



851 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 26

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Cypriots lose trust in banks; no residency for Hong Kong&#8217;s foreign domestic helpers; China&#8217;s president visits Africa; a Dior exhibit in London; and Japan&#8217;s path to the World Cup. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Account holders, business customers and many experts worry that Europe's solution to the banking crisis in Cyprus is only a temporary bandage. Liz Alderman and Landon Thomas Jr. report from Nicosia. 
Within hours of the American military's formally transferring all but a "small number" of the Afghan prisoners at the Bagram Prison to the Afghan government, President Hamid Karzai held a friendly news conference with Secretary of State John Kerry on Monday that stood in stark contrast to his recent acrimonious tone toward the United States. Rod Nordland reports from Bagram, Afghanistan, and Michael R. Gordon and Alissa J. Rubin from Kabul.
Hong Kong's highest court ruled unanimously on Monday that a woman from the Philippines who had lived and worked here for nearly 27 years as a domestic helper was not entitled to permanent residency, ending an acrimonious legal fight over the immigration rights of migrant workers. Keith Bradsher reports from Hong Kong.
A post-mortem examination on the exiled Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky found the cause of death was "consistent with hanging" with no sign of a violent struggle, the police said late Monday, after two days of intense speculation over the final hours of one of the Kremlin's most vocal critics. Stephen Castle reports from London.
Two news organizations have reported that the man known as Prisoner X, Benjamin Zygier, unintentionally revealed the identities of two top spies for Israel in Lebanon to a man known to be close to Hezbollah. Isabel Kershner reports from Jerusalem.
President Xi Jinping defended China's economic stake in many African countries during a speech on Monday in Tanzania, and promised aid in a bid to counter fears over competitive Chinese companies. Chris Buckley reports from Hong Kong.
The French trade minister said any U.S.-Europe trade agreement would have to overcome thorny issues, including France's insistence on special treatment to protect its homegrown music and movies. David Jolly reports from Paris.
Prime Minister David Cameron promised more stringent rules Monday to reduce outsiders' access to social, health and housing benefits, reflecting a fraught debate in Britain over the potential impact of increased immigration from southeast Europe that could fuel a rightist threat to his Conservative Party. Stephen Castle reports from London, and Alan Cowell from Venice.
 FASHION An exhibition at Harrods in London celebrates the legacy of Dior, the enduring French brand. Suzy Menkes reviews from London.
 ARTS The National Gallery's new exhibition of works by Albrecht Dürer covers his career from beginning to end. Holland Cotter reviews from Washington.
 SPORTS As a fifth consecutive World Cup appearance comes into view, it is no longer about how soon Japan secures its place but how long it stays there. John Duerden reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); EXHIBITIONS (84%); SPORTS & RECREATION (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (68%); AUTOPSIES (67%); MUSIC (65%); HEZBOLLAH (64%); PAINTING (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (59%); APPEALS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DAVID CAMERON (76%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%); BORIS BEREZOVSKY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (54%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CYPRUS (94%); CHINA (94%); AFRICA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



852 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: U.S.A.I.D. Administrator Rajiv Shah

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI BAGRI


HIGHLIGHT: The American agency has changed its approach to aid in India completely. 

 BODY:
MUMBAI- Each year, about 1.5 million children under 5 years old die in India, which has the largest number of such deaths worldwide. A majority of these deaths stem from pneumonia, diarrhea, malnutrition and complications at birth and can be prevented. In February, at the India Call to Action on Child Survival and Development Summit, India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare released a strategic road map to tackle preventable child deaths and introduced a National Child Survival Score Card and a dashboard to track progress on child survival and development. 
 On March 6, the United States Agency for International Development announced the extension of two initiatives on child survival in India. The Integrated Maternal and Child Health Project will support the Indian government in establishing quick response teams and the Health of the Urban Poor Project will provide support in the implementation of urban health programs. 
 As the 16th administrator of the aid agency, Rajiv Shah heads the efforts of 80 offices worldwide and over 8,000 professionals. Since he joined the agency in 2009, Mr. Shah has managed the United States government's response to the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, helped head the State Department's first review of American diplomacy and development operations and now leads the Feed the Future food security initiative. 
 India Ink spoke with Mr. Shah on his recent trip to Mumbai about transformations in the development sector, the function of the private sector in development work and the aid agency's new programs and partnerships aimed at reducing preventable child deaths.
 Q. 
In the rapidly transforming landscape of international development, how has the role of the international development community, and U.S.A.I.D. in particular, evolved over last five years in India?
 A. 
You're absolutely right that the landscape has changed completely and the United States has changed its approach completely. U.S.A.I.D. used to be a traditional development partner supporting government activities and initiatives. Today, we focus on using our India mission as a development innovation laboratory to try and find those partners in the private sector, scientists and entrepreneurs who are creating great new solutions for development and then helping them apply those solutions here in India but also elsewhere in the world. Today, we have important partnerships with private sector and civil society in India that work in Afghanistan and in Africa on a range of issues. Our view of the future is India working as an active development partner to end extreme poverty and its consequences in other parts of the world and in India as well.
 Q. 
A common critique of foreign aid in India is that very often resources do not reach their intended beneficiaries. What can be done to improve transparency and accountability in development outcomes?
 A. 
Let me give you a very concrete example to show you how we are doing that in India. Last June, the United States together with the government of India and the government of Ethiopia hosted the entire world in Washington, D.C. to pursue what we described as a call to action to end child mortality. Today, India is one of the co-leaders of this international initiative. In Chennai, just a few weeks ago they brought together all of the different leaders in health from all of the Indian states and from the private sector. They agreed to report on results on under-5 child mortality, with each state publishing a very specific report card that describes exactly what money is being invested and exactly what results are being achieved in terms of saving children's lives.
 Q. 
Since 2001 U.S.A.I.D. has promoted a model of public-private partnerships and collaborated with over 3,000 organizations in more than 1,000 partnerships, leveraging billions of dollars for the agency's development goals. Can you tell us a little bit about the new programs and partnerships that U.S.A.I.D. is undertaking aimed at reducing preventable child deaths in India? 
 A. 
We have a partnership with government where today six of the states that have particularly high levels of child mortality are going to announce their strategic plans and put forth their public report cards so that there is transparency in what they are achieving.
We're also announcing three new public-private partnerships that total nearly $30 million investment - about half of that comes from U.S.A.I.D. and half of that comes from the Indian private sector. Our partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and IKP Knowledge Park will help to identify really new innovations in diagnostics in order to make sure that we can identify and treat more effectively tuberculosis in children.
Another partnership we are undertaking is with Kiawah Trust and Dasra, which will bring private philanthropy into the task of accelerating child mortality reductions. We are also creating something called a "diarrhea partnership" to work with a company called Pharmasynth that will make a zinc syrup so that young children can take that zinc syrup, which has recently been proven to protect children from dying when they get a stomach virus. These are great partnerships because they are all about creating new innovations and they all demand real results and accountability.
 Q. 
The entrepreneurial spirit of individuals is behind much of India's economic growth story. Can that be leveraged toward development and how?
 A. 
Absolutely, and that is why I'm visiting Mumbai on this trip. For nearly the entire time I'm meeting with leaders in the private sector who have been very successful business leaders and entrepreneurs and working with them to figure out how we can have partnerships like the ones I've just described to bring their entrepreneurial spirit to ending child mortality in India.
Mukesh Ambani has committed his time and efforts. Yesterday, we were with the leadership of Lupin Pharmaceuticals in order to see if they can develop new drugs for tuberculosis and make them available at a lower cost. We also have innovation grant awards with partners like Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry to help Indian entrepreneurs who are developing new solutions gain access to private equity and venture capital self-financing.
 Q. 
While India has made significant strides in reducing child mortality -since 1990 the child mortality rate in India has fallen by 45 percent - the preventable deaths of millions of children continue each year. What are the challenges involved in the goal of reducing childhood illness and death and fulfilling the goal of ending preventable child deaths within a generation?
 A. 
The biggest challenge is that often services and efforts to try and reach middle-class children and are less effective in reaching children in very low-income rural communities that have less services and reaching urban poor children in slums. As part of our support, we're focusing on helping the government and these private companies and philanthropists reach the hundreds and millions of those people who live in a lower-income setting.
And we know that every dollar or rupee invested in reaching those children is far more cost effective at saving those children lives. The innovations we've developed to save children's lives, from the zinc syrup to the new vaccines, are more effective in saving children's lives when they reach poor children, most because those children often don't have medical systems and doctors they can go see when they get sick.
 Q. 
Very often, the resources and energy of development organizations and nongovernmental organizations are funneled toward tackling crisis situations and not addressing the long-term issues. How can organizations move beyond that practice? 
 A. 
We're trying to break that cycle in this partnership to save children's lives. Here's how we're trying to do it: First, we're focused on a long-term challenge. We know that the more children's lives we save, the more families choose to have fewer children. That's been proven everywhere in the world including in India. And we know that that reduction in total birth rate helps countries achieve more stability and more broad based and inclusive economic growth. So it's a long-term challenge and a long-term opportunity.
Second, in doing this work we're very focused on supporting local institutions. So all of the partnerships I mentioned aren't about finding American contractors and giving them resources. It's about finding who are the most innovative and important Indian institutions that can build themselves up through these partnerships so that we can have an exit strategy over time and so that India can lead its own efforts to end preventable child death.
I'd say third, it's about trying to find the innovation and the technology. All of these different solutions can be applicable in other parts of the world, and we're working with Indian institutions to do this work in Africa and Afghanistan and elsewhere. So even as we learn from other places we can also export the innovations here around the world.
 (This interview has been lightly edited and condensed.) 

        
A Global Shift in Foreign Aid, Starting in India
        
What Are You Doing to Fix India's Broken Education System?
        
India and Italy Share Blame in Marines Case, Analysts Claim
        
India's Prime Minister Asks Developed Nations to Use Less Energy and Water
        
A Conversation With: Journalist and Author Fareed Zakaria

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); PNEUMONIA (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) Afghanistan; Africa; Ambani, Mukesh D; Chennai (India); Children and Childhood; Deaths (Fatalities); Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Foreign Aid; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; India; Mumbai (India); Philanthropy; Shah, Rajiv; State Department; United States Agency for International Development; United States Economy

COMPANY: INDIA INK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; State Department; United States Agency for International Development

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (74%) Ambani, Mukesh D; Shah, Rajiv

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); AFRICA (93%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan; Africa; Chennai (India); India; Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



853 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: The Unnatural Rate Hypothesis

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Was it the Fed wot did it? 

 BODY:
When I read opinion pieces by insiders, I often find the ostensible argument less interesting than what is taken for granted. It's the throwaway lines, the statements that obviously are meant to refer to what "everyone knows", that can be truly revealing about the state of conventional wisdom.
So it is with Fred Hiatt's latest deficit-scold column. Dean Baker is exercised over Hiatt's evident longing for a financial crisis to get action on the policies he believes are necessary to avoid an, um, financial crisis; indeed, Hiatt is following in the inglorious footsteps of Alan Greenspan, who declared almost three years ago that the failure of interest rates and inflation to soar was "regrettable", rather than being an indication that his model of the economy was wrong. 
But what I found striking was Hiatt's offhand explanation of why his never-changing, never-right prediction keeps not happening; it's because
the Federal Reserve is gobbling up U.S. debt to keep interest rates low
Clearly, this has become part of the CW. And once again we see how a highly dubious economic idea can become part of what Everyone knows and Nobody disagrees with, even if in this case Nobody includes a fellow by the name of Ben Bernanke, who gave a speech on this very topic just a few weeks ago.
In fact, the notion that rates are low just because the Fed is buying up debt is wrong on at least three levels.
First, as Bernanke stressed, long-term interest rates have moved very similarly across a wide range of countries, including countries where the central bank is buying up lots of bonds and countries where it isn't. Here, for example, is a comparison of the US and France:
Second, if Fed purchases of bonds are crucial to keeping rates down, we should see spikes in rates when those purchases stop. In fact, a lot of people predicted that this would happen in mid-2011, when QE2 came to an end - and lost a lot of money as a result. Here's Fed holdings of long-term assets (agency debt plus long-term Treasury debt), from here, versus long-term bond rates:
You can see a couple of pauses in the Fed's expansion of its holdings - and no relationship at all to rates.
But finally and most importantly, since when do we believe that central banks can hold interest rates down at will, for extended periods, without consequences? Isn't "printing money" supposed to be dangerously inflationary?
Or think of it in terms of the original Wicksellian concept of the natural rate of interest (pdf). This was supposed to be the interest rate consistent with price stability; if the central bank tried to keep rates below this level, it might be able to for a while, but the result would be an overheating economy and accelerating inflation. (Milton Friedman would later appropriate this concept by analogy to unemployment). 
So if you believe that the Fed has been keeping rates artificially low for years on end - which is apparently what Everyone believes - where's my overheated economy?
In short, the notion that rates are low only because the Fed is holding them down by "gobbling" up debt is clearly refuted by international evidence, clearly refuted by the behavior of rates over time, and logically flawed. All of that makes it perfectly suited to become part of the conventional wisdom, so thoroughly accepted that it is mentioned only in passing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



854 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: When Money and Emotions Collide

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Articles that illustrate where emotions affect financial decisions &#8212; from following a dream even when the dream is dashed to the people who give away their big inheritances &#8212; appear in a special section published by the Your Money team, in collaboration with American Public Media&#8217;s &#8220;Marketplace Money&#8221; radio program. 

 BODY:
We all have some sort of history that has shaped the way we relate to money, and those feelings can influence many of the financial decisions we make, both both big and small. Human nature plays a big role, too. 
So on Tuesday, the Your Money team, in collaboration with American Public Media's "Marketplace Money" radio program, published a special section with several articles that illustrate where money and emotions collide.
One article discusses how scary markets often cause us to do crazy things - like throwing away our well-designed, rational financial plans and buying or selling at the worst possible moments.
Another article talks about how adhering to your dream - to open a cupcake shop or become an artist, for instance - could end in disaster. And it discusses why human nature makes it so hard to turn our backs on those dashed dreams - even when it's abundantly clear we should probably walk away.
There's also an article about how it's tricky to sort out our emotions from economics when purchasing long-term care insurance, while another article looks at the type of people who choose to give away their big inheritances.
Other articles raise difficult questions: Do I truly believe I will live long enough to spend my retirement money? What am I prepared to spend on a suffering pet, and should I? Will I insult my fiancé if I question him about his savings or his debts? Should I help my adult children - and will I put myself at financial risk if I do? 
We hope you will share some of your own experiences related to these articles in the comment section below.

        
Workers Still Uneasy About Retirement Finances
        
The Risks of Transferring a Car Loan to a Credit Card
        
Viewing the Glass as Half Full, but Not Too Full
        
Financial Tips for Younger Adults
        
How Did You Prepare for Your Baby?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (52%) Emotions; Personal Finances

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



855 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Tuesday Reading: A Push for HPV Vaccinations

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A push for HPV vaccinations, setting a price on the life of a beloved pet, T-Mobile unveils new pricing plan (sort of) and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
What you didn't post, Facebookmay still know. (Business)
        
Companies get strict on the health of workers. (Business)
        
In defense of pen knives on airplanes. (Business)
        
Looking for evidence that therapy works. (Well)
        
A push for HPV vaccinations. (Well)
        
Dried vs. fresh blueberries. (Well)
        
Young inheritors with an urge to redistribute. (Your Money)
        
Setting a price on the life of a beloved pet. (Your Money)
        
For older Americans, a deepening debt problem. (Your Money)
        
The emotional lure of prepaid college. (Your Money)
        
Growing up with a trust. (Your Money)
        
Declining wealth brings retirement risk. (Economix)
        
Taking a safety agency's app for a test drive. (Wheels)
        
Beware of the high cost of "free" online courses. (Bits)
        
T-Mobile unveils new pricing plan (sort of). (Gadgetwise)
        
A new Roku media player makes streaming TV easier. (Gadgetwise)
        
Making family time work for teens. (Motherlode)
        
Open that college admissions e-mail at home. (The Choice)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (67%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



856 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Declining Wealth Brings a Rising Retirement Risk

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: With equity tied up in homes and facing the switch to defined-contribution pension plans, many Americans have been left short of funds needed for a comfortable retirement, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
In a recent post, I examined aggregate national wealth from the Federal Reserve Board's flow of funds statistics. They show that while national wealth is now approximately back to its precrisis level, the composition of it has changed. Much more is now held in the form of such financial assets as stocks and much less in nonfinancial forms such as housing. This is important, economically and distributionally, because the wealthy are much more likely to be invested in stocks and bonds, while the middle class has more of its wealth in home equity. 
Several new studies cast further light on the composition and distribution of wealth, with implications for the ability of millions of Americans to retire and have an adequate retirement income.
On March 21, the Census Bureau published data on median household wealth - the median is the exact middle of the distribution of wealth. It shows that between 2000 and 2005, median wealth increased significantly, to $106,585 from $81,821. It then fell to $68,828 in 2011. Thus, although the stock market is close to its prerecession peak and aggregate national wealth has largely been restored, the median family's wealth is still considerably below its peak and needs to rise considerably just to get back to where it was in 2000.

The reason, of course, is that the housing market continues to lag. As Figure 1 illustrates, virtually all of the change in wealth since 2000 has been accounted for by the rise and fall of home equity, which closely tracks the price of homes.
On the other hand, households have grown less dependent on housing wealth over time. In 1984, 41 percent of wealth was held in the form of home equity. By 2000, that percentage had fallen to 30 percent; in 2011 it was 25 percent.
A key reason for this change has been the switch from defined-benefit to defined-contribution pension plans. In the former, workers are promised a specific income at retirement, which the employer provides. The employer bears all the risk of market fluctuations.
Under a defined contribution scheme, such as a 401(k) plan, the worker and the employer jointly contribute to a tax-deductible and tax-deferred account from which the worker will finance retirement. Thus, to a certain extent, the growth of pension wealth is more apparent than real.
The worker always, in effect, owned the assets from which his pension was paid; he just never saw them or benefited when the stock market increased, nor did he suffer when the market fell. With a 401(k) account, the worker knows the present value of his retirement saving at the close of the market every day.
There are several big problems in this shift to defined-contribution pension plans. One is that workers don't take advantage of them or fail to contribute the maximum contribution they are permitted to make. Another is that they fail to invest in stocks and instead put their money into certificates of deposit or other investments that tend to underperform stocks in the long run. Workers may also be unwise in choosing investment advisers and end up paying a lot in unnecessary fees that can be very costly to returns.
These mistakes are hardly surprising. Under defined-benefit plans, companies hired professional money managers to invest their pension funds. The average worker can hardly be expected to have the same level of expertise, nor do they have the time to investigate their options adequately. They also tend to be excessively risk-averse and invest too conservatively.
Now the first generation of workers who have virtually all their pension saving in defined-contribution plans is nearing retirement, and the news isn't good. According to a March 19 report from the Employee Benefit Research Institute, only about half of workers nearing retirement have confidence that they have enough money saved for an adequate retirement.
Not surprisingly, retirement saving has taken a back seat to more pressing concerns - coping with unemployment, maintaining standards of living during an era of slow wage growth, putting children through increasingly expensive colleges and so on. People may also have simply underestimated how much money they needed to save in the first place.
This problem is much more severe for black Americans. According to a new study by the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University, black families have considerably less wealth than white families even when their incomes are comparable. Over a 25-year period, a $1 increase in income generated $5.19 in wealth for white families but just 69 cents for black Americans.
The study identified several possible explanations: years of homeownership, household income, spells of unemployment, education, and inheritances from parents. With regard to housing in particular, white families generally bought homes at an earlier age, thus building home equity longer; white families tended to get better mortgages, in part because they made larger down payments. Black Americans bought homes in poorer areas where there was less home price appreciation.
The wealth gap isn't only racial, it's generational. According to a March 15 study from the Urban Institute, young people today have considerably less wealth than their parents did at the same stage of life.
Factors include young people buying homes at a market peak and hence suffering disproportionately from the decline in home prices; they also put less money down, making it more likely that they have negative home equity. Younger workers have also tended to marry at a lower rate, have lower incomes than their parents, pay much higher costs for health insurance, and are more likely to graduate with college debts.
What's really depressing about these studies is the lack of solutions and the likelihood that the problem will only get worse. 
Republicans in Congress have pressed for years to convert Social Security, a classic defined-benefit pension, into a defined contribution plan, and also to convert Medicare into a voucher program. These changes would shift even more of the financial risk in retirement onto families that have yet to adapt to fundamental changes in employer pensions and the economy over the last 30 years. The future doesn't look pretty.

        
Study Questions Tax Breaks' Effect on Retirement Savings
        
Wealth, Spending and the Economy
        
The Health Care Law and Retirement Savings
        
Pensions Under Stress, Worldwide
        
Baby Boomers and the Shrinking Work Force

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); BONDS (69%); CENSUS (69%); HOME PRICES (69%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Personal Finances; Retirement; Savings; Today's Economist

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); RON PAUL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



857 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: See the Play, Don't Miss the Program

BYLINE: DAVID BELCHER


HIGHLIGHT: One of the pleasures and privileges of theatergoing in London &#8212; in addition to those little wooden spoonlets that come with the interval ice cream &#8211; is the beauty of the printed theater program. Granted, they&#8217;re not free. 

 BODY:
LONDON-One of the pleasures and privileges of theatergoing in London - in addition to those little wooden spoonlets that come with the interval ice cream - is the beauty of the printed theater program. Rather than the advertising-heavy publications of many cities, particularly New York, chock-full of fluffy profiles of the newest musical star and features on the favorite Thai restaurant of a chorus member of "Wicked," a London theater program is often a quick study guide - a cheat sheet for the high-brow pop quiz of theater about to unfold. 
The programs are often written by academics, playwrights or other experts, and are designed to educate beyond the glossy photos and credits of performers. Most theater programs in New York, Chicago and other theater cities, while free, contain only fluffy articles about that city's theater scene with a few inserted pages specific to each show. In London most programs are all about the play you're about to see. Granted, they cost anywhere from £2.50 to £4, or $3.80 to $6, but it's an investment, not just a souvenir. The takeaway is a deeper understanding not just of the play but of some of Britain's history, politics and culture. 
A few current London shows are prime examples. The National Theatre's production of James Graham's "This House," set in 1974, amid gridlock in Parliament as the Labor and the Tory whips battle for control amid an energy crisis, high inflation and record unemployment. The play, nearly three hours long, is a full-on immersion in the politics of Parliament that laid the groundwork for Margaret Thatcher's anti-socialism agenda. It's a dense, rapid-pace dissection of an era, and the program contains no less than three full-length articles of exposition, a glossary of political terms and a list of the members of Parliament who speak, if only for a few seconds. It's a crash course for even the most politically informed, and certainly for a non-British tourist to better grasp the complicated ins and outs.
"The program is part of the experience of seeing the play," said Lyn Haill, head of publications at the National Theatre.
"If people get into the habit of buying a program they start to realize that it's a useful adjunct to seeing the play - and something to read on the way home."
The West End revival of Harold Pinter's 1971 masterwork "Old Times" has garnered attention for the clever way that the actresses Kristin Scott Thomas and Lia Williams are alternating the roles of Kate and Anna. Pinter's memory play about a love triangle (or is it?) is dense with ambiguity, and the £4 program contains articles that guide viewers through 70 loaded minutes of Pinterese. The four essays in the program break it down thus: the power and unreliability of memory; excerpts from an autobiography of Pinter's widow, Antonia Fraser, on her years with the hot-headed playwright; a psychologist's analysis of monogamy and infidelity; and a brief history of the bohemian life in postwar London that sets the tone and time of the play. The program creates an ambience before the show casts its own spell.
The National Theatre's West End transfer of "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time" - a critical and box-office hit - tells the story of a math genius, a teenager with Asperger's Syndrome, who tries desperately to find the killer of a neighbor's dog. The program includes an article written by Mark Haddon, the math-teaching author of the bestselling novel on which the play is based, as well as a profile of a youngster with Asperger's Syndrome. 
At Shakespeare's Globe, where the program costs £4 and a floor ticket only £5 (which buys a spot standing near the stage, as was done 400 years ago), equal the cost of a movie in the West End, the printed programs also are specific to each play (about 12 are planned for this year's season, which runs April 23 through mid-October). There are three or four articles on Elizabethan England, as well as the history of the Globe (and its rebuilding in the 1990s) and life in the theater in Shakespearean England. It's like a historical mini-textbook in a classroom where the characters play it all out.
"Our programs also have an emphasis on the original playing conditions of the play and any evidence about its first production and publication," said Nick Robins, head of periodicals for Shakespeare's Globe. "We like to focus on his sources and what Shakespeare was reading when he was writing."
For the National Theatre's upcoming productions of "Othello" and Maxim Gorky's rarely performed "Children of the Sun" in April, Ms. Haill said the historian Peter Holland will write, as he usually does for the National, about Shakespeare, while a British military adviser will write about how military life influences Shakespeare's tragedy. The historian Andrew Upton will write about grappling with Gorky.
In The Shed, the National Theatre's imposing, brick-red temporary theater that opens shortly while the Cottlesoe goes through a yearlong renovation, programs for the series of experimental plays will cost £1, in keeping with The Shed's minimalist concept - and its attempt to lure younger audiences to the theater.
"These programs will have no advertising and are printed on uncoated, recycled paper," Ms. Haill said. "It's more immediate for younger audiences who probably aren't used to buying programs." 
Even performers' credits are refreshing. The National Theatre uses rehearsal shots instead of posed head shots for its performers. 
And most performers in the London theater have radio credits. 
Radio credits? In a country where serial dramas and plays are still performed regularly on the radio, it's another example of how a theater program reflects its society. 
 Do you buy programs when you go to the theater in London? Which ones have you found particularly enlightening? 

        
Eve Best Returns to the Globe, This Time as a Director
        
What to See on the London Stage in 2013
        
Love Unleashed on the London Stage
        
Chekhov Again? 'Uncle Vanya' and the Instant Replay
        
Theater as a Moving Target

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (87%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HISTORY (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); WRITERS (70%) London theater; Haddon, Mark; Pinter, Harold; Theater; Shakespeare's Globe Theater; London (England); Arts

ORGANIZATION: Shakespeare's Globe Theater

PERSON: Haddon, Mark; Pinter, Harold

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



858 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles Says Its Endowment Will Reach Record Level

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY


HIGHLIGHT: The museum says that is has been promised donations that will increase its endowment to more than $60 million. 

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which has been beset by financial struggles and board defections, announced Tuesday that it had been promised donations that would raise its endowment to more than $60 million, the highest in the museum's 34-year history. 
The museum said that the money was "a reflection of the board's commitment to keep MOCA as a museum dedicated solely to contemporary art," an apparent reference to a recent proposal under which the National Gallery of Art in Washington would collaborate with the museum on programming and exhibitions but would not provide any financial assistance.
"The financial support we have already raised demonstrates the commitment of the board to ensuring that MOCA remains a world-class independent contemporary art museum, and we call on others to join in this campaign," Jeffrey Soros, the board's president, said in a statement. Mr. Soros and another trustee, the prominent collector Eugenio Lopez, are the leaders of a new fundraising campaign for the museum, MOCA Independence, which seeks to increase the museum's endowment to $100 million.
At its low point in 2008, because of overspending and flagging investments during the recession, the endowment dwindled to only a few million from a high of more than $40 million at the beginning of the decade. The billionaire collector Eli Broad, one of the museum's founding board members, came to the rescue, giving the museum $15 million and a pledge of $15 million more to match contributions by others. But the museum struggled to find donors who would give to allow those matching funds to be used.
In February, board members began exploring the possibility of joining with the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the city's most established museum, which proposed a formal merger. But last week the contemporary board appeared to change course and voted to remain independent. The idea of collaborating with the National Gallery in Washington, which has largely been panned by critics and supporters of the contemporary art museum, began after Mr. Broad approached the National Gallery and asked for assistance.

        
Los Angeles MOCA Mulls Pact With National Gallery
        
MoCA Los Angeles May Partner With U.S.C.
        
National Gallery of Art's Renovation Plan Envisions Two New Tower Galleries
        
Ari Emanuel Joins Board of Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles
        
Corcoran Gallery of Art Will Stay Put

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CHARITIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%) Art; Broad, Eli; Finances; Los Angeles (Calif); Los Angeles County Museum of Art; Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art; Museums; National Gallery of Art; Philanthropy; Washington (DC); art & design; museums

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles County Museum of Art; Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art; National Gallery of Art

PERSON: ELI BROAD (89%) Broad, Eli

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013



859 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: In a Faded Wall St. Scandal, Lessons for a Current One

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The backdating scandal pales in comparison to the recklessness of the financial crisis, but it does have implications for criminal cases. 

 BODY:
Remember Jacob Alexander? Perhaps you should. For as financial crisis prosecutions seem to fizzle out, his tale is a lesson: not only do financial scandals fade quickly from memory, but sometimes corporate executives really do pay for bad choices.
Mr. Alexander, known as Kobi, was the chief executive of Comverse Technology, a high-flying software communications company that was founded in Israel. In 2006, Comverse became enmeshed in the stock options backdating scandal that snared many technology companies in that period.
Federal authorities described Mr. Alexander's scheme as a brazen one. For about 15 years, they say, Mr. Alexander regularly orchestrated the backdating of options. He was even accused of creating a secret slush fund for options to grant to employees for retention and as bonuses. Perhaps in hindsight, naming the fund "I. M. Fanton" after "The Phantom of the Opera" and then "Fargo" after the Coen brothers movie was not particularly a good idea.
Backdating was also a lucrative endeavor at Comverse. Mr. Alexander alone reportedly earned $138 million from selling backdated options from 1991 to2001. But when the scandal surfaced, the chief executive along with Comverse's former chief financial officer, David Kreinberg, and Comverse's general counsel, William F. Sorin, were all charged with violating federal criminal laws as well as the securities laws. 
Comverse was not the only bad actor. More than 100 companies would be investigated or accused of some form of backdating.
Still, Mr. Alexander turned out to be unique among the executives who were accused of wrongdoing. Rather than defend himself against the charges, he disappeared, emerging later in Namibia, a country in southern Africa with beautiful desert scenery, two million people and at the time no extradition arrangement with the United States.
And there Mr. Alexander has sat for the last seven years.
It hasn't been an uneventful period. The government has since had mixed success with the options backdating cases. For all the time and money spent, only about a dozen executives were convicted, and five served prison terms. The longest sentence handed down - two years - was given to Monster's former chief operating officer, James J. Treacy.
The rest were really taps on the wrist. The trial of Henry T. Nicholas III, the former co-chief executive of the Broadcom Corporation, was disrupted when a judge found prosecutorial misconduct. His charges were later dismissed. Others, like KB Home's former chief executive, Bruce E. Karatz, received much lighter sentences, if any. Mr. Karatz was sentenced to five years probation despite a government request for six years in prison.
The civil cases were more fruitful for the government. The Securities and Exchange Commission brought about 50 of them, recovering $468 million alone from the former chief executive of the UnitedHealth Group, William W. McGuire.
But everyone has moved on. The options backdating cases are now vague memories. Even Comverse has moved forward. The chief financial officer, Mr. Kreinberg, served only a short period in jail. Comverse's general counsel, Mr. Sorin, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison. As for Comverse, it was acquired by Verint Systems in 2012.
Mr. Alexander, meanwhile, remains in Namibia.
The years there have not been uneventful for him. His wife filed for divorce, he flew in hundreds of people for his son's bar mitzvah - thus tripling the local Jewish population - and he founded a number of charitable causes in Namibia. There is even a Kobi Alexander Enterprise Soup Kitchen in Namibia's capital city, Windhoek.
And while his legal case has not gone away, Mr. Alexander has gradually been chipping away at it. After he arrived, Namibia's president added the United States to the list of countries to which Namibia could extradite. Since then, Mr. Alexander has been free on $1.3 million bail and challenging any extradition attempt. The High Court of Namibia heard the case last year, and is still considering it. Whatever their ruling, there will be more appeals and hearings. This case has years to go before he can be sent back to the United States, if ever.
But it appears that he also wants penance. Seven suits were brought against Mr. Alexander by investors, the government and Comverse itself. He has settled all of them, including the S.E.C.'s civil case, for which he paid $53.6 million to the government in fines and disgorgement. The only thing left is the criminal case.
Mr. Alexander declined requests for comment for this column made through his lawyer.
I have to wonder whether he is sitting there wondering whether his quick decision to go to Namibia, of all places, might have been a bit too hasty.
He clearly miscalculated. No doubt, Mr. Alexander saw what happened in the Enron cases and the huge sentences given out, including the 24-year, four-month term handed to Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron chief executive.
But Enron and WorldCom have proved to be special cases. Had Mr. Alexander stayed in the United States, and had he been convicted, he would have been out of prison years ago.
Given the poor memory of corporate America, he would also have probably been fully rehabilitated, maybe even made a partner at a venture capital firm, given that he was one of the fathers of the Israeli technology revolution. Who knows?
And there's a lesson here as we wait for prosecutions over the financial crisis.
The first is that as memories fade, and what at the time seems like a big deal may not be so big with perspective. In retrospect, the options backdating scandal was one that involved hazy allegations of wrongdoing, much of it by people who didn't realize that what they had done was wrong. And even in the most egregious cases, the judges had a hard time finding harm to shareholders and others. The judge in the KB Home case even scolded prosecutors, calling their sentencing memo "meanspirited and beneath this office."
Now, the options backdating scandal pales in comparison to the recklessness and greed of the financial crisis. But it does have implications for any criminal cases that come out of the crisis.
When juries and judges heard these kinds of financial cases, they were less likely to focus on the outrage. This was evident in the criminal case the government lost against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers and the civil case the S.E.C. lost against a Citigroup executive.
In other words, the outrage doesn't always transfer to the facts on the ground. It is also clear that the government remembers that it didn't get very far in the options backdating cases and has been much more cautious with the financial crisis cases as a result.
And the short memory of Wall Street is also at work with the financial crisis. Five years on, most of the major figures are in retirement, enjoying their wealth and engaging in other pursuits. They are doing no worse, and even better in many cases, than those involved in the options backdating cases.
Which brings us back to Mr. Alexander. You can't really feel sorry for him, as what he did was brought on himself. But still, I don't understand why he remains there. If Mr. Alexander were to return and plead guilty, he would most likely serve only three or four years because he was never technically arrested in the United States, so his flight would not significantly enhance his sentence. And then he could serve his sentence and return to what he does best - creating new technologies.
Perhaps it is time for Mr. Alexander to decide to move on and make a better choice. It seems a better option than staying in limbo, even if it is a beautiful place. But again, his case is a lesson in bad decisions and their consequences.
An earlier version of this column referred incorrectly to the case against Henry T. Nicholas III, the former co-chief executive of the Broadcom Corporation. The charges against him were eventually dismissed; he was not sentenced to 18 months in prison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (94%); EXTRADITION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); PROBATION (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (65%); JUDGES (61%); LEGAL ETHICS (60%); DESERTS (50%) Deal Professor; Legal/Regulatory; Technology

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (81%); KB HOME CORP (51%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (81%); KBH (NYSE) (51%); UNH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (81%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); NAMIBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (78%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



860 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Chase Faces Full-Court Press of Federal Investigations

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The issues being investigated range from prior knowledge of the Madoff scam to inadequate prevention of money-laundering. 

 BODY:
As the nation's strongest bank, JPMorgan Chase used to be known for carrying special sway with regulators. Now it increasingly finds itself in the cross hairs of federal authorities.
At least two board members are worried about the mounting problems, and some top executives fear that the bank's relationships in Washington have frayed as JPMorgan becomes a focus of federal investigations.
 In a previously undisclosed case, prosecutors are examining whether JPMorgan failed to fully alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter. And nearly a year after reporting a multibillion-dollar trading loss, JPMorgan is facing a criminal inquiry over whether it lied to investors and regulators about the risky wagers, a case that could accelerate when the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other authorities interview top JPMorgan executives in coming weeks.
All told, at least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. in New York are also examining potential wrongdoing at JPMorgan. 
A recent misstep points to the growing friction between JPMorgan and regulators as well as to the concerns within the bank. JPMorgan misstated how the bank may have harmed more than 5,000 homeowners in foreclosure, according to several people briefed on the matter. The bank's primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is expected to collect a cash payment from the bank to remedy the flawed review of loans, these people say.
The bank acknowledges its broad regulatory challenges. "We get it, and we are dealing aggressively with these issues," said Joe Evangelisti, a JPMorgan spokesman.
 The mortgage errors, while by themselves relatively minor, have heightened concerns within JPMorgan because they come on top of the other investigations. The increased scrutiny presents a challenge for the bank and its influential chief executive, Jamie Dimon, who was widely praised for steering JPMorgan through the 2008 financial crisis, leaving it in far better shape than its rivals. Among some executives at the bank, the worry is that the unwanted attention will undercut Mr. Dimon's authority in Washington.
"Jamie and other executives feel terrible that the bank's self-inflicted mistakes have put regulators in an awkward position," Mr. Evangelisti said. He added, "We are wholly to blame for our errors and are fully cooperating with all authorities to make things right."
Mr. Dimon has already testified before Congress and apologized for the trading losses. In response to last year's trading blowup, the bank has also worked to root out the problems, shuffled its top executives, bolstered its risk controls and brought in a new head of compliance.
The bank's board, which halved Mr. Dimon's compensation in January, recently reiterated its support for him as both chairman and chief executive. JPMorgan, whose shares have soared in recent months, has recorded record profits for the last three years.
But as JPMorgan seeks to address its legal woes and restore its credibility in Washington, the bungled review of troubled mortgages could present a setback for the bank. The problems stem from January, when JPMorgan and other big banks agreed to a multibillion-dollar settlement over foreclosure abuses. As part of the pact, the bank agreed to comb through each loan file to spot potential errors, a process that the regulators will use to help determine the size of the payouts to homeowners.
While assessing 880,000 mortgages, JPMorgan overstated the potential harm for more than 5,000 loans, the people familiar with the matter said. The mistakes were not deliberate, according to a person with direct knowledge of the review, who also noted that the extent of the problem was small and that other banks were encountering their own issues with the review.
To ensure those errors didn't cheat homeowners out of relief, JPMorgan offered additional compensation for borrowers, according to one person familiar with the matter. Still, the comptroller, which is growing impatient with JPMorgan's mistakes, could also fine the bank, another person said.
Tensions between JPMorgan and its primary regulator were highlighted in a recent Senate report that examined the $6.2 billion trading loss. The report, by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, portrayed a somewhat defiant stance by Mr. Dimon, showing how during a brief period in August 2011 the chief executive stopped providing regulators with profit-and-loss reports about the investment bank.
Although the bank says Mr. Dimon was merely concerned about a security breach, the report says he took an adversarial tone with regulators, pushing them to explain why they needed that level of information. Mr. Dimon's approach seemed to influence other executives, including one employee who once screamed at examiners and called them "stupid."
Those episodes, combined with the current investigations, are costing the bank some of its influence in Washington, according to government officials who would speak only anonymously. The legal problems also pose a test for Stephen M. Cutler, the bank's general counsel, who is advocating for the bank to take a respectful approach with regulators.
In April, according to people briefed on the matter, senior executives are expected to meet with investigators who are examining the trading loss. A handful of executives have already met with authorities, but the second round will include Mr. Dimon. While he is not suspected of any wrongdoing, the officials hope Mr. Dimon will help build a case against traders in London suspected of lowballing their losses.
The investigators will also seek information about whether some top bank executives misled investors and regulators about the severity of the losses. Even as losses mounted last year, the bank did not publicly disclose the problem for months. The bank has said that "senior management acted in good faith and never had any intent to mislead anyone."
But the S.E.C. is also examining such disclosures. And under the Dodd-Frank regulatory law, the F.D.I.C. is investigating the trading loss, according to people briefed on the matter.
The S.E.C., F.D.I.C., Comptroller's office and F.B.I. all declined to comment.
JPMorgan has separately come under fire for lax controls against money-laundering. In January, the comptroller hit JPMorgan with a cease-and-desist order for failures that threatened to allow tainted money to move through the bank's vast network.
Mr. Evangelisti, JPMorgan's spokesman, has said the bank has "been working hard to fully remediate the issues identified."
Still, federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining JPMorgan's actions in the Madoff case, suspecting the bank may have violated a federal law that requires banks to alert authorities to suspicious transactions. The comptroller's office is investigating similar issues.
"We believe that the personnel who dealt with the Madoff issue acted in good faith in seeking to comply with all anti-money-laundering and regulatory obligations," Mr. Evangelisti said.
The federal investigation echoes claims in a 2010 lawsuit against the bank brought by Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy trustee gathering assets for Mr. Madoff's victims.
The suit cited internal JPMorgan e-mails sent 18 months before Mr. Madoff's arrest, in which one employee acknowledged that a bank executive "just told me that there is a well-known cloud over the head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to be part of a Ponzi scheme."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%) Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (79%); BERNARD MADOFF (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



861 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Set to Pass Budget and Extend On-Time Streak to 3rd Year

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- The spending plan tops $141 billion. It pays for things like expanded prekindergarten programs and a marketing plan promoting the state's beer, wine and Greek yogurt industries. And this week, after weeks of haggling with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, the State Legislature is poised to approve it.
Lawmakers are hoping to finish voting on the bills that make up the budget on Thursday. The approval would be a week later than lawmakers had intended, but still before the start of the state's next fiscal year, which begins on Monday. This year would be the third in a row that the state budget has been on time, the best streak in decades. 
Over all, spending under the new budget would increase by about 4 percent over the current one, although much of that increase is the result of federal aid to help rebuild areas damaged by Hurricane Sandy. The increase in state operating funds would be less than 2 percent.
Here is a look at some of the highlights of the budget -- and some of the issues that Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers agreed to postpone until later in the legislative session in order to ensure they could complete the spending plan by the Monday deadline.
TAXES AND OTHER REVENUE In the biggest surprise of the budget deal, Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders decided to extend the use of a high-tax bracket on the state's top incomes. The bracket, which lawmakers approved on a temporary basis in late 2011, had been set to expire at the end of 2014, which is an election year.
The new budget would extend the high-tax bracket through 2017. The extension, which Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, did not include in his original budget proposal, has drawn criticism from business groups, who warn that New Yorkers with high incomes might relocate to lower-tax states, a claim that some dispute.
The budget also creates a new $350 tax rebate for families with incomes between $40,000 and $300,000 and who have at least one child. The first rebate check would be mailed by mid-October next year just before voters go to the polls to decide whether to re-elect Mr. Cuomo and members of the Legislature. (The Assembly is controlled by Democrats, the Senate by a coalition of Republicans and independent Democrats.)
Lawmakers rejected a proposal by Mr. Cuomo to expand the Quick Draw lottery game. They also rejected a proposal to make it more difficult for drivers to reduce the severity of speeding tickets through court pleadings, but put in place a $25 surcharge for speeding tickets that are pleaded down to a low-level traffic offense. They also set a $50 minimum fine for texting or using a hand-held cellphone while driving, as well as higher maximum fines -- as much as $400 -- for repeat offenders.
MINIMUM WAGE The budget would raise the state's minimum wage to $9 per hour, from $7.25, by 2016. The increase would be gradual: the wage would rise to $8 at the end of this year, $8.75 at the end of 2014 and $9 at the end of 2015.
The minimum wage would not be tied to inflation, as Democrats in the Legislature had hoped. The increase would also not apply to tipped workers, who receive a lower minimum wage, although the budget will require the State Labor Department to review whether those wages should be increased.
The budget also provides relief for businesses that would face higher labor costs as a result of the minimum wage increase: they would receive a refundable tax credit for their costs above the current minimum wage for workers they employ who are ages 16 through 19.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS Mr. Cuomo abandoned his plan to allow local governments to defer a portion of their pension costs by choosing a fixed contribution rate below the current one. But the budget includes an alternative plan that was supported by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, who had veto power over the governor's original proposal.
The existing pension-deferment plan was approved in 2010 and permits public employers to borrow from the pension fund to pay their pension costs. The new alternative program would allow more money to be deferred in the near term, while extending the maximum payback period to 12 years, from 10.
The budget does not restore about $250 million in school aid that is being withheld from New York City. The city was penalized for missing a January deadline to reach an agreement with the teachers' union to put in place a teacher evaluation system. Mr. Cuomo would not agree to eliminate the penalty, but the budget ensures that the city does not continue to be penalized in future budget years, as some lawmakers and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had feared.
HEALTH CARE The budget restores $30 million of the $120 million that Mr. Cuomo had proposed to cut from the Office for People With Developmental Disabilities to help plug a budget hole created by a change in how the federal government will reimburse the state for its care of those people.
Despite the wishes of some lawmakers, the budget does not include money to help the financially troubled SUNY Downstate Medical Center. Instead, the budget asks SUNY to submit a restructuring plan for the hospital by June.
GUN CONTROL The spending plan suspends a ban on the sale of gun magazines with a capacity larger than seven rounds, which was a centerpiece of the package of new gun laws enacted by the Legislature in January in response to the mass shooting in Newtown, Conn.
The state had an existing ban on magazines larger than 10 rounds, and Mr. Cuomo said the more restrictive ban, which had been set to take effect April 15, was a problem because few seven-round magazines are manufactured. Gun owners will still be permitted to load only seven rounds into their magazine unless they are at a firing range or a competition.
The budget also includes $28 million to pay for a statewide database of handgun licenses that was created as part of the gun law.
STILL TO COME Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers had hoped to resolve several other policy debates. A proposal to cut down on low-level marijuana arrests stemming from police stops in New York City was put off until later in the session. So was a proposal to specify the locations of new casinos that could be built if the state legalizes Las Vegas-style casino gambling, and another proposal that would legalize mixed martial arts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dean G. Skelos, a Republican, and Jeffrey D. Klein, right, a Democrat, on Tuesday. They lead the State Senate majority coalition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (83%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (83%); MARKETING PLAN (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAX RELIEF (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); LOTTERIES (60%); SALES REBATES (58%); HURRICANES (53%); HURRICANE SANDY (53%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



862 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Museum Foresees Record Endowment

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which has been beset by financial struggles and board defections, announced Tuesday that it had been promised donations that would raise its endowment to more than $60 million, the highest in the museum's 34-year history. 
The museum said that the money was ''a reflection of the board's commitment to keep MOCA as a museum dedicated solely to contemporary art,'' an apparent reference to a recent proposal under which the National Gallery of Art in Washington would collaborate with the museum on programming and exhibitions but would not provide any financial assistance.
''The financial support we have already raised demonstrates the commitment of the board to ensuring that MOCA remains a world-class independent contemporary art museum, and we call on others to join in this campaign,'' Jeffrey Soros, the board's president, said in a statement. Mr. Soros and another trustee, the prominent collector Eugenio Lopez, are the leaders of a new fund-raising campaign for the museum, MOCA Independence, which seeks to increase the museum's endowment to $100 million.
At its low point in 2008, because of overspending and flagging investments during the recession, the endowment dwindled to only a few million from a high of more than $40 million at the beginning of the decade. The billionaire collector Eli Broad, one of the museum's founding board members, came to the rescue, giving the museum $15 million and a pledge of $15 million more to match contributions by others. But the museum struggled to find donors who would give to allow those matching funds to be used.
In February, board members began exploring the possibility of joining with the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the city's most established museum, which proposed a formal merger. But last week the contemporary board appeared to change course and voted to remain independent. The idea of collaborating with the National Gallery in Washington, which has largely been panned by critics and supporters of the contemporary art museum, began after Mr. Broad approached the National Gallery and asked for assistance.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PAINTING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



863 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: A Sleek Office Building Rises Over Gritty Astor Place

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
For decades, the jobs associated with Astor Place in the East Village usually involved selling Beat Generation paperbacks on a blanket on a sidewalk or, maybe, inking tattoos.
But a developer is now betting that office workers would like to ply their trade along the short street, too.
Continuing an effort to change the look and feel of the area, Edward J. Minskoff Equities in May will open 51 Astor Place, a 13-story, 430,000-square-foot building that takes up an entire block between Third and Fourth Avenues.
Like some condo and school buildings that have sprung up here in the last decade, 51 Astor towers above the neighborhood of mostly low-slung former tenements. Its mirror-quality dark glass walls, which contrast with the colorful mosaics decorating lamp posts in the neighborhood, are also strikingly modernistic. But 51 Astor seems to be the first major office project to try to take advantage of the round-the-clock energy for which the East Village has long been known, and Minskoff Equities hopes that will lure technology companies to the building. 
''You've got life down here, so it's safe at night when 25-year-olds leave work,'' said Edward Minskoff, the company's president, on a recent tour that began at a popular meeting place: ''Alamo,'' a cube-like sculpture that adorns a traffic island. In parts of Midtown Manhattan, where Mr. Minskoff also owns high-rises, the sidewalks can become too quiet after dark because of a lack of shops and people. ''It's nowhere's land up there,'' he said.
While Mr. Minskoff may be a trailblazer, he benefited from the struggles of Cooper Union, which owns the land under 51 Astor and is across the street. A decade ago, the college, which offers full scholarships to its undergraduates but is considering charging tuition, decided to cash in on its valuable real estate holdings to ease regular budget deficits.
Regardless of opposition, city officials in 2002 agreed to allow Cooper Union to commercially develop land, despite its being owned by a nonprofit. As a result, its engineering school at 51 Astor relocated to nearby 41 Cooper Square, a stylish new building by the architect Thom Mayne, and the land at 51 Astor was leased to Mr. Minskoff, who has paid $97 million to hold it for 99 years.
The development cost of 51 Astor, which is designed by Fumihiko Maki, is $300 million, with Mr. Minskoff himself contributing $135 million. Because of the recession, he delayed the demolition of the 1950s buildings on the site by about a year and a half, before finally breaking ground in 2011. ''The market wasn't right,'' he said.
The new building will feature a black-and-white granite lobby anchored by a 14-foot-tall red rabbit sculpture by Jeff Koons. Three storefronts will wrap around the ground floor, one of which will house a bank, Mr. Minskoff said. A school will occupy a second-floor space. And there will be a public plaza at Astor Place and Third Avenue.
In an unusual move, Mr. Minskoff built the building without having tenants lined up to fill it. He also plans to charge some of the highest rents in Manhattan, and whether the market is strong enough to support those prices remains unclear. The building is asking $88 a square foot for the lower 42,000-square-foot floors, and up to $115 a foot, for the upper 25,000-square-foot floors, which offer views of Brooklyn.
Rents in Midtown South, the neighborhood of 51 Astor, tend to be much lower, although a handful of amenity-laden properties can command triple-digit rents. The average asking rent in the first quarter of 2013 was about $50 a foot, according to Avison Young, the commercial real estate firm. Even rents in the desirable Plaza District, around the Plaza Hotel, were only about $80 a foot in recent months, brokers say.
Demand for the type of sweeping column-free floor spaces 51 Astor offers has so far seemed weak. The prime buildings in the neighborhood have a 13 percent vacancy rate, according to Avison Young, a rate that is far higher than in other Midtown South office submarkets, like Hudson Square, where it is 8 percent.
Microsoft expressed early interest in the building, Mr. Minskoff said.
But it has reportedly taken 20,000 square feet at another speculative building, 11 Times Square, for about $60 a foot. Other technology companies, including I.B.M., have toured the property, which is being marketed by Jones Lang LaSalle, but so far there have been no takers.
Ultimately, 51 Astor might have to settle for $80 a foot, said Greg Kraut, an Avison Young principal who is not involved with the project, in order to compete with its chief rival in the area, 770 Broadway, which has large floor plans like 51 Astor and where rents are around $75 a foot. Owned by Vornado Realty Trust, 770 Broadway, a landmark full-block former annex of Wanamaker's department store, has offices for AOL, J. Crew and the VNU publishing company. From the floor-to-ceiling windows at 51 Astor, the Broadway building's terra-cotta lion's head details seem close enough to touch.
Working against buildings like 770 Broadway and 51 Astor is that some tech companies do not need the huge berths they offer. The 5,000-square-foot spaces offered by Newmark Holdings in a line of its buildings along Astor Place between Broadway and Lafayette Street, for example, may be a better fit for start-ups.
Direct Agents, a digital marketing company, recently signed a lease at 740 Broadway, says Brian Steinwurtzel, managing director of Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, the management company; and Animoto, an online video company, took space at 440 Lafayette Street last year. Rents in those buildings, which are completely leased, are $40 a foot on lower floors, Mr. Steinwurtzel said.
''I think what's happened in the creative fields is that people want to work close to where they live,'' he said. They also don't want the neighborhood to be totally reinvented, which is partly why Newmark has decided to have Astor Place Hairstylists stay at 2 Astor Place, where it has offered cheap haircuts for decades. ''The neighborhood will always have a casual flavor.''
Other changes may be inevitable. This spring, the city's Transportation Department will begin a long-planned project to close streets and expand parks in the area, according to a source close to the project, similar to what has occurred in Times Square.
One target is the part of Astor Place between Lafayette Street and Cooper Square, in front of the wavy glass 21-story condo called Sculpture for Living, which the Related Companies developed in 2004 on a parking lot owned by Cooper Union. After closing to cars, the stretch of Astor Place there is slated to become a plaza with bike racks and black gum trees, according to renderings.
What is less clear is the effect of gentrification on the area's shops, many of which are clustered on St. Marks Place between Third and Second Avenues.
Windows there on a recent day displayed electric blue wigs and a pile of dozens of dolls at Search and Destroy, a punk rock clothing store. Nearby sat a man with a tattoo cobweb across his face, while teenagers panhandled and slurped energy drinks.
Despite periodic attempts to change the mix of retail, the block seems proudly resistant to change, even while the rest of the East Village has become more upscale, says William Kelley, executive director of the Village Alliance, the business improvement district responsible for keeping the area clean. ''I think the office workers will bring a new audience,'' Mr. Kelley said. ''But I don't foresee any sweeping changes here for the next 100 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The mirrorlike facade of the 13-story 51 Astor Place, being built and developed by Edward J. Minskoff Equities across the street from Cooper Union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); TUITION FEES (75%); RELOCATIONS (72%); SCULPTURE (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUDGETS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



864 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Petrobras, Once Symbol of Brazil's Oil Hopes, Strives to Regain Lost Swagger

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Taylor Barnes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Brazil's oil production is falling, casting doubt on what was supposed to be an oil bonanza. Imports of gasoline are rising rapidly, exposing the country to the whims of global energy markets. Even the nation's ethanol industry, once envied as a model of renewable energy, has had to import ethanol from the United States.
Half a decade has passed since Brazilians celebrated the discovery of huge amounts of oil in deep-sea fields by the national oil company, Petrobras, triumphantly positioning the country to surge into the top ranks of global producers. But now another kind of energy shock is unfolding: the colossal company, long known for its might, is losing the race to keep up with the nation's growing energy demands.
Saddled with a nationalist mandate to buy ships, oil platforms and other equipment from lethargic Brazilian companies, the oil giant is now facing soaring debt, major projects mired in delays and older fields, once prodigious, that are yielding less oil. The undersea bounty in its grasp also remains devilishly complex to exploit. 
Now, instead of symbolizing Brazil's rise as a global powerhouse, Petrobras embodies the sluggishness of the nation's economy itself, which, after racing ahead at 7.5 percent in 2010, slowed to less than 1 percent last year, eclipsed by growth in other Latin American nations like Mexico and Peru.
Until recently, Petrobras was second in value only to ExxonMobil among publicly traded energy companies. But its fortunes have tumbled to the point that it is now worth less than Colombia's national oil company. That fall has accentuated an increasingly bitter debate here over President Dilma Rousseff's attempts to use Petrobras to shield the Brazilian population from the nation's economic slowdown.
''Petrobras was once thought indestructible, but that is no longer the case,'' said Adriano Pires, a prominent Brazilian energy consultant. ''Petrobras is now a tool of short-term economic policy, used to protect domestic industry from competition and fight inflation. This disastrous process will intensify if it is not reversed.''
Ms. Rousseff, like her predecessor and political mentor, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, has relied heavily on state companies like Petrobras to create jobs and spur the economy. As a result, the president and her top advisers argue, unemployment remains near historic lows, an approach in economic management that contrasts sharply with Europe and the United States.
In a recent speech, Ms. Rousseff explained that her government's priority was lifting millions of Brazilians out of poverty.
''Those betting against us,'' she warned, ''will suffer serious financial and political losses.''
To bolster Ms. Rousseff's approval ratings going into a presidential election in 2014, Petrobras is building new refineries, pursuing offshore oil and buying most of its equipment from Brazilian companies, all of which have created tens of thousands of jobs and delivered some tangible political benefits.
''My life is better,'' said Adinael Soares Silva, 38, a welder at a Petrobras refinery under construction in Itaboraí, a city near Rio de Janeiro. He said he was pleased with his salary of about $800 a month. ''Where I was, I didn't have enough to have a savings account,'' he said. ''Now I do.''
But while Petrobras has helped keep Brazil's unemployment low, around 5.4 percent, a growing chorus of critics points to the obvious problems at the company, including its backlog of projects and an inability to satisfy the country's thirst for oil, forcing it to import foreign gasoline and sell it at a loss.
After Brazil made its deep-sea oil discoveries in 2007, the government pushed to put Petrobras firmly in control of the new areas, a move that critics say could strain the company even further. It was a marked departure from the 1990s, when authorities ended Petrobras's monopoly as part of a radical restructuring of the economy. Petrobras remained under state control but was exposed to market forces, emerging as a hybrid nimbly competing with foreign oil companies.
Today, Petrobras seems far less nimble. In 2012, its production fell 2 percent, the first such decline in years.
The international energy industry is also changing, especially in the United States, as momentum shifts toward extracting oil and natural gas from onshore shale formations. Brazil is thought to have large shale reserves itself, but the government remains focused on its costly deep-sea megaprojects.
''The United States is redrawing the global petroleum map, while in Brazil euphoria has given way to inertia,'' Folha de São Paulo, one of Brazil's most influential newspapers, said in a recent editorial.
Compounding matters, Brazil's demand for gasoline surged about 20 percent in 2012, reflecting a car-manufacturing industry that has boomed partly as a result of government efforts to lift production.
Petrobras still lacks enough refineries able to process crude oil, forcing it to buy increasing amounts of gasoline from abroad. And it is still losing money on gasoline imports as the government keeps domestic fuel prices relatively low, to keep inflation from accelerating in a slow-growing economy.
Energy analysts contend that the government is using Petrobras to further its own political objectives. Ms. Rousseff's administration, for instance, has hewed to measures aimed at reviving the country's shipbuilding industry, by requiring Petrobras to buy many of its ships and oil platforms from Brazilian shipyards.
But these ventures have struggled with large cost overruns of their own, sometimes delivering vessels late or not at all, cutting into Petrobras's hopes of meeting ambitious production targets.
Then there are the delays at oil refineries under construction. One such complex, in Pernambuco State, was conceived in 2005 as a way for Brazil to forge closer political ties with oil-rich Venezuela. Eight years later, Venezuela has yet to invest in the project, which has faced various delays as Petrobras shoulders the entire cost of building it.
Describing the accumulation of problems at Petrobras, Exame, Brazil's top business magazine, bluntly accused the government of ''destroying Brazil's largest company,'' accompanying the claim with an illustration of a fuel dispenser from a filling station in the shape of a noose.
The sense of dismay reflects, at least in part, Petrobras's stature. Founded in 1953, it wields clout from its Brutalist-style headquarters here in spheres well beyond the energy industry, sponsoring everything from literary festivals to the Carnival celebration in Salvador, a city in northeast Brazil.
Despite the challenges it faces, Petrobras remains profitable and much less constrained by political ideology than some other large national oil companies. In Mexico, for instance, Pemex has long retained its monopoly status despite production declines, and now the government is considering opening it to greater private investment.
Petrobras is also far more transparent than Petróleos de Venezuela, the national oil company that President Hugo Chávez, who died this month, transformed into an extremely politicized pillar of his government, purging it of thousands of employees after a bitter strike and forcing it to focus on new tasks like food distribution.
Maria das Graças Foster, the chief executive of Petrobras, has been exceptionally frank about the company's problems. In recent conference calls with analysts, she said that oil production should remain steady this year or perhaps even decline slightly again. But she also responded sharply to critics, claiming that output from the new deep-sea fields had reached 300,000 barrels a day. By 2020, the company expects to double overall production to 4.2 million barrels a day.
Other executives at the company have similarly sought to temper expectations that Brazil will enter a robust phase of energy independence.
José Carlos Cosenza, a Petrobras executive, has warned that Brazil may need to import large amounts of fuel for almost another decade. Moreover, gasoline demand is expected to climb even higher as Brazilians buy more cars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers buying food last year outside the Petrobras refinery being built in the Port of Suape in Brazil's Pernambuco State.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); ETHANOL (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (92%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (92%); PBR (NYSE) (92%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



865 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Group of Emerging Nations Plans to Form Development Bank

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
JOHANNESBURG -- A group of five emerging world economic powers met in Africa for the first time Tuesday, gathering in South Africa for a summit meeting at which they plan to announce the creation of a new development bank, a direct challenge to the dominance of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
The leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, all members of the so-called BRICS Group of developing nations, have agreed to create the bank to focus on infrastructure and development in emerging markets. The countries are also planning to discuss pooling their foreign reserves as a bulwark against currency crises, part of a growing effort by emerging economic powers to build institutions and forums that are alternatives to Western-dominated ones. 
''Up until now, it has been a loose arrangement of five countries meeting once a year,'' said Abdullah Verachia, director of the Frontier Advisory Group, which focuses on emerging markets. ''It is going to be the first real institution we have seen.''
But the alliance faces serious questions about whether the member countries have enough in common and enough shared goals to function effectively as a counterweight to the West.
''Despite the political rhetoric around partnerships, there is a huge amount of competition between the countries,'' Mr. Verachia said.
For all the talk of solidarity among emerging giants, the group's concrete achievements have been few since its first full meeting, in Russia in 2009. This is partly because its members are deeply divided on some basic issues and are in many ways rivals, not allies, in the global economy.
They have widely divergent economies, disparate foreign policy aims and different forms of government. India, Brazil and South Africa have strong democratic traditions, while Russia and China are autocratic.
The bloc even struggles to agree on overhauling international institutions. India, Brazil and South Africa want permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council, for example, but China, which already has one, has shown little interest in shaking up the status quo.
The developing countries in the bloc hardly invest in one another, preferring their neighbors and the developed world's major economies, according to a report released Monday by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
Just 2.5 percent of foreign investment by BRICS countries goes to other countries in the group, the report said, while more than 40 percent of their foreign investment goes to the developed world's largest economies, the European Union, the United States and Japan.
Africa, home to several of the world's fastest-growing economies, drew less than 5 percent of total investment from BRICS nations, the report said. France and the United States still have the highest rate of foreign investment in Africa. Despite China's reputation for heavy investment in Africa, Malaysia has actually invested $2 billion more in Africa than China has.
Still, 15 African heads of state were invited to the summit meeting in South Africa as observers, a sign of the continent's increasing importance as an investment destination for all of the BRICS countries.
China is in many ways a major competitor of its fellow BRICS member, South Africa. South African manufacturers, retail chains, cellphone service providers, mining operations and tourism companies have bet heavily on African economic growth and in some ways go head-to-head against Chinese companies on the continent.
South Africa is playing host for the first time since becoming the newest member of what had been known previously as BRIC. Many analysts have questioned South Africa's inclusion in the group because its economy is tiny compared with the other members, ranking 28th in the world, and its growth rates in recent years have been anemic.
In an interview last year with a South African newspaper, Jim O'Neill, the Goldman Sachs executive who coined the term BRIC, said South Africa did not belong in the group.
''South Africa has too small an economy,'' Mr. O'Neill told the newspaper, The Mail & Guardian. ''There are not many similarities with the other four countries in terms of the numbers. In fact, South Africa's inclusion has somewhat weakened the group's power.''
But South Africa's sluggish growth has become the rule, not the exception, among the onetime powerhouse nations. India's hopes of reaching double-digit growth have ebbed. Brazil's surging economy, credited with pulling millions out of poverty, has cooled drastically. Even China's growth has slowed.
And once welcome, Chinese investment in Africa is viewed with increasing suspicion.
On a visit to Beijing last year, President Jacob Zuma of South Africa warned that Chinese trade ties in Africa were following a troubling pattern.
''Africa's commitment to China's development has been demonstrated by supply of raw materials, other products and technology transfer,'' Mr. Zuma said. ''This trade pattern is unsustainable in the long term. Africa's past economic experience with Europe dictates a need to be cautious when entering into partnerships with other economies.''
Mr. Zuma appeared to have a change of heart before the summit meeting, saying Monday that China does not approach Africa with a colonial attitude.
But other African leaders are not so sure. Lamido Sanusi, governor of Nigeria's central bank, wrote in an opinion article published in The Financial Times this month that China's approach to Africa is in many ways as exploitative as the West's has been.
''China is no longer a fellow underdeveloped economy -- it is the world's second-biggest, capable of the same forms of exploitation as the West,'' he wrote. ''It is a significant contributor to Africa's deindustrialization and underdevelopment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Tuesday in Durban, South Africa, just ahead of Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, South Africa's defense minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BRICS COUNTRIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); AFRICA (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



866 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Chase Faces a Full-Court Press of Federal Investigations

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
As the nation's strongest bank, JPMorgan Chase used to be known for carrying special sway with regulators. Now it increasingly finds itself in the cross hairs of federal authorities.
At least two board members are worried about the mounting problems, and some top executives fear that the bank's relationships in Washington have frayed as JPMorgan becomes a focus of federal investigations.
In a previously undisclosed case, prosecutors are examining whether JPMorgan failed to fully alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter. And nearly a year after reporting a multibillion-dollar trading loss, JPMorgan is facing a criminal inquiry over whether it lied to investors and regulators about the risky wagers, a case that could accelerate when the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other authorities interview top JPMorgan executives in coming weeks.
All told, at least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. in New York are also examining potential wrongdoing at JPMorgan. 
A recent misstep points to the growing friction between JPMorgan and regulators as well as to the concerns within the bank. JPMorgan misstated how the bank may have harmed more than 5,000 homeowners in foreclosure, according to several people briefed on the matter. The bank's primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is expected to collect a cash payment from the bank to remedy the flawed review of loans, these people say.
The bank acknowledges its broad regulatory challenges. ''We get it, and we are dealing aggressively with these issues,'' said Joe Evangelisti, a JPMorgan spokesman.
The mortgage errors, while by themselves relatively minor, have heightened concerns within JPMorgan because they come on top of the other investigations. The increased scrutiny presents a challenge for the bank and its influential chief executive, Jamie Dimon, who was widely praised for steering JPMorgan through the 2008 financial crisis, leaving it in far better shape than its rivals. Among some executives at the bank, the worry is that the unwanted attention will undercut Mr. Dimon's authority in Washington.
''Jamie and other executives feel terrible that the bank's self-inflicted mistakes have put regulators in an awkward position,'' Mr. Evangelisti said. He added, ''We are wholly to blame for our errors and are fully cooperating with all authorities to make things right.''
Mr. Dimon has already testified before Congress and apologized for the trading losses. In response to last year's trading blowup, the bank has also worked to rout out the problems, shuffled its top executives, bolstered its risk controls and brought in a new head of compliance.
The bank's board, which halved Mr. Dimon's compensation in January, recently reiterated its support for him as both chairman and chief executive. JPMorgan, whose shares have soared in recent months, has recorded record profits for the last three years.
But as JPMorgan seeks to address its legal woes and restore its credibility in Washington, the bungled review of troubled mortgages could present a setback for the bank. The problems stem from January, when JPMorgan and other big banks agreed to a multibillion-dollar settlement over foreclosure abuses. As part of the pact, the bank agreed to comb through each loan file to spot potential errors, a process that the regulators will use to help determine the size of the payouts to homeowners.
While assessing 880,000 mortgages, JPMorgan overstated the potential harm for more than 5,000 loans, the people familiar with the matter said. The mistakes were not deliberate, according to a person with direct knowledge of the review, who also noted that the extent of the problem was small and that other banks were encountering their own issues with the review.
To ensure those errors didn't cheat homeowners out of relief, JPMorgan offered additional compensation for borrowers, according to one person familiar with the matter. Still, the comptroller, which is growing impatient with JPMorgan's mistakes, could also fine the bank, another person said.
Tensions between JPMorgan and its primary regulator were highlighted in a recent Senate report that examined the $6.2 billion trading loss. The report, by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, portrayed a somewhat defiant stance by Mr. Dimon, showing how during a brief period in August 2011 the chief executive stopped providing regulators with profit-and-loss reports about the investment bank.
Although the bank says Mr. Dimon was merely concerned about a security breach, the report says he took an adversarial tone with regulators, pushing them to explain why they needed that level of information. Mr. Dimon's approach seemed to influence other executives, including one employee who once screamed at examiners and called them ''stupid.''
Those episodes, combined with the current investigations, are costing the bank some of its influence in Washington, according to government officials who would speak only anonymously. The legal problems also pose a test for Stephen M. Cutler, the bank's general counsel, who is advocating for the bank to take a respectful approach with regulators.
In April, according to people briefed on the matter, senior executives are expected to meet with investigators who are examining the trading loss. A handful of executives have already met with authorities, but the second round will include Mr. Dimon. While he is not suspected of any wrongdoing, the officials hope Mr. Dimon will help build a case against traders in London suspected of lowballing their losses.
The investigators will also seek information about whether some top bank executives misled investors and regulators about the severity of the losses. Even as losses mounted last year, the bank did not publicly disclose the problem for months. The bank has said that ''senior management acted in good faith and never had any intent to mislead anyone.''
But the S.E.C. is also examining such disclosures. And under the Dodd-Frank regulatory law, the F.D.I.C. is investigating the trading loss, according to people briefed on the matter.
The S.E.C., F.D.I.C., Comptroller's office and F.B.I. all declined to comment.
JPMorgan has separately come under fire for lax controls against money-laundering. In January, the comptroller hit JPMorgan with a cease-and-desist order for failures that threatened to allow tainted money to move through the bank's vast network.
Mr. Evangelisti, JPMorgan's spokesman, has said the bank has ''been working hard to fully remediate the issues identified.''
Still, federal prosecutors in Manhattan are examining JPMorgan's actions in the Madoff case, suspecting the bank may have violated a federal law that requires banks to alert authorities to suspicious transactions. The comptroller's office is investigating similar issues.
''We believe that the personnel who dealt with the Madoff issue acted in good faith in seeking to comply with all anti-money-laundering and regulatory obligations,'' Mr. Evangelisti said.
The federal investigation echoes claims in a 2010 lawsuit against the bank brought by Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy trustee gathering assets for Mr. Madoff's victims.
The suit cited internal JPMorgan e-mails sent 18 months before Mr. Madoff's arrest, in which one employee acknowledged that a bank executive ''just told me that there is a well-known cloud over the head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to be part of a Ponzi scheme.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon is chief of JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Jamie Dimon, left, at headquarters. His occasional defiance of regulators may have emboldened his employees to do likewise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%); BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



867 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: In a Faded Wall St. Scandal, Lessons for a Current One

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Remember Jacob Alexander? Perhaps you should. For as financial crisis prosecutions seem to fizzle out, his tale is a lesson: not only do financial scandals fade quickly from memory, but sometimes corporate executives really do pay for bad choices.
Mr. Alexander, known as Kobi, was the chief executive of Comverse Technology, a high-flying software communications company that was founded in Israel. In 2006, Comverse became enmeshed in the stock options backdating scandal that snared many technology companies in that period.
Federal authorities described Mr. Alexander's scheme as a brazen one. For about 15 years, they say, Mr. Alexander regularly orchestrated the backdating of options. He was even accused of creating a secret slush fund for options to grant to employees for retention and as bonuses. Perhaps in hindsight, naming the fund ''I. M. Fanton'' after ''The Phantom of the Opera'' and then ''Fargo'' after the Coen brothers movie was not particularly a good idea.
Backdating was also a lucrative endeavor at Comverse. Mr. Alexander alone reportedly earned $138 million from selling backdated options from 1991 to2001. But when the scandal surfaced, the chief executive along with Comverse's former chief financial officer, David Kreinberg, and Comverse's general counsel, William F. Sorin, were all charged with violating federal criminal laws as well as the securities laws. 
Comverse was not the only bad actor. More than 100 companies would be investigated or accused of some form of backdating.
Still, Mr. Alexander turned out to be unique among the executives who were accused of wrongdoing. Rather than defend himself against the charges, he disappeared, emerging later in Namibia, a country in southern Africa with beautiful desert scenery, two million people and at the time no extradition arrangement with the United States.
And there Mr. Alexander has sat for the last seven years.
It hasn't been an uneventful period. The government has since had mixed success with the options backdating cases. For all the time and money spent, only about a dozen executives were convicted, and five served prison terms. The longest sentence handed down -- two years -- was given to Monster's former chief operating officer, James J. Treacy.
The rest were really taps on the wrist. The trial of Henry T. Nicholas III, the former co-chief executive of the Broadcom Corporation, was disrupted when a judge found prosecutorial misconduct. His charges were later dismissed. Others, like KB Home's former chief executive, Bruce E. Karatz, received much lighter sentences, if any. Mr. Karatz was sentenced to five years probation despite a government request for six years in prison.
The civil cases were more fruitful for the government. The Securities and Exchange Commission brought about 50 of them, recovering $468 million alone from the former chief executive of the UnitedHealth Group, William W. McGuire.
But everyone has moved on. The options backdating cases are now vague memories. Even Comverse has moved forward. The chief financial officer, Mr. Kreinberg, served only a short period in jail. Comverse's general counsel, Mr. Sorin, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison. As for Comverse, it was acquired by Verint Systems in 2012.
Mr. Alexander, meanwhile, remains in Namibia.
The years there have not been uneventful for him. His wife filed for divorce, he flew in hundreds of people for his son's bar mitzvah -- thus tripling the local Jewish population -- and he founded a number of charitable causes in Namibia. There is even a Kobi Alexander Enterprise Soup Kitchen in Namibia's capital city, Windhoek.
And while his legal case has not gone away, Mr. Alexander has gradually been chipping away at it. After he arrived, Namibia's president added the United States to the list of countries to which Namibia could extradite. Since then, Mr. Alexander has been free on $1.3 million bail and challenging any extradition attempt. The High Court of Namibia heard the case last year, and is still considering it. Whatever their ruling, there will be more appeals and hearings. This case has years to go before he can be sent back to the United States, if ever.
But it appears that he also wants penance. Seven suits were brought against Mr. Alexander by investors, the government and Comverse itself. He has settled all of them, including the S.E.C.'s civil case, for which he paid $53.6 million to the government in fines and disgorgement. The only thing left is the criminal case.
Mr. Alexander declined requests for comment for this column made through his lawyer.
I have to wonder whether he is sitting there wondering whether his quick decision to go to Namibia, of all places, might have been a bit too hasty.
He clearly miscalculated. No doubt, Mr. Alexander saw what happened in the Enron cases and the huge sentences given out, including the 24-year, four-month term handed to Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron chief executive.
But Enron and WorldCom have proved to be special cases. Had Mr. Alexander stayed in the United States, and had he been convicted, he would have been out of prison years ago.
Given the poor memory of corporate America, he would also have probably been fully rehabilitated, maybe even made a partner at a venture capital firm, given that he was one of the fathers of the Israeli technology revolution. Who knows?
And there's a lesson here as we wait for prosecutions over the financial crisis.
The first is that as memories fade, and what at the time seems like a big deal may not be so big with perspective. In retrospect, the options backdating scandal was one that involved hazy allegations of wrongdoing, much of it by people who didn't realize that what they had done was wrong. And even in the most egregious cases, the judges had a hard time finding harm to shareholders and others. The judge in the KB Home case even scolded prosecutors, calling their sentencing memo ''meanspirited and beneath this office.''
Now, the options backdating scandal pales in comparison to the recklessness and greed of the financial crisis. But it does have implications for any criminal cases that come out of the crisis.
When juries and judges heard these kinds of financial cases, they were less likely to focus on the outrage. This was evident in the criminal case the government lost against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers and the civil case the S.E.C. lost against a Citigroup executive.
In other words, the outrage doesn't always transfer to the facts on the ground. It is also clear that the government remembers that it didn't get very far in the options backdating cases and has been much more cautious with the financial crisis cases as a result.
And the short memory of Wall Street is also at work with the financial crisis. Five years on, most of the major figures are in retirement, enjoying their wealth and engaging in other pursuits. They are doing no worse, and even better in many cases, than those involved in the options backdating cases.
Which brings us back to Mr. Alexander. You can't really feel sorry for him, as what he did was brought on himself. But still, I don't understand why he remains there. If Mr. Alexander were to return and plead guilty, he would most likely serve only three or four years because he was never technically arrested in the United States, so his flight would not significantly enhance his sentence. And then he could serve his sentence and return to what he does best -- creating new technologies.
Perhaps it is time for Mr. Alexander to decide to move on and make a better choice. It seems a better option than staying in limbo, even if it is a beautiful place. But again, his case is a lesson in bad decisions and their consequences.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (92%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); PROBATION (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); LITIGATION (70%); SECURITIES LAW (65%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (65%); JUDGES (61%); LEGAL ETHICS (60%); DESERTS (50%)

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (80%); KB HOME CORP (51%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (80%); KBH (NYSE) (51%); UNH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (80%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); NAMIBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (78%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



868 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Picking New York's State Soil? Not So Fast

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ALBANY -- If ever there was a process that should have been as dull as dirt, it was the naming of New York's state soil.
Or so it must have seemed to State Senator John J. Bonacic, a downstate Republican who introduced a bill last month to honor so-called black dirt: the super-fertile, obsidian-hued sediment that just happens to coat thousands of acres of farmland in his district northwest of New York City. The bill was not even that tough to plow through, just a quick passage designating ''black dirt as the state soil.''
All of which should have gone smooth as silt, except for one small fact: New York apparently already had a quasi-official state soil for more than two decades, according to scientists at the United States Department of Agriculture, a ''mixed, active'' little dirt known as Honeoye (pronounced HONEY-oy). 
That designation took the senator by surprise when he learned of it on Tuesday.
''I was not aware of it,'' said Mr. Bonacic, who grew up in the soil-challenged environs of Hell's Kitchen. ''But I'd put black dirt against any dirt.''
Mr. Bonacic said his bill was simply meant to highlight the ''economic vitality of agriculture'' in his district's Black Dirt region, whose easy-to-plow soil of the same name is so celebrated that feasts and festivals have been held in its honor.
Despite black dirt's gloomy name, the senator said the designation was meant to celebrate its virtues. ''It's life we're talking about,'' he said.
John Ruszkiewicz, whose family has been farming onions and other crops in Pine Island, N.Y., for decades, approved of Senator Bonacic's efforts to get black dirt recognized along with such other official state items as the rose (its flower), the beaver (its animal) and the apple muffin (its, well, muffin).
''Everybody has their bragging rights to something,'' he said.
According to the Agriculture Department, every state has a state soil, from cheery-sounding sods like sassafras (the official sediment of Maryland) to the decidedly less so (downer, the troubled-sounding turf of New Jersey).
In New York's case, the selection of black dirt has not yet faced any opposition, according to the senator's staff, though the New York Farm Bureau is a little wary of a passage in the bill that designates ''the Black Dirt region as home to the most fertile soil'' in the state.
''We don't want to dig ourselves a hole by saying one soil type is better than the next,'' said Steve Ammerman, a spokesman for the bureau. ''We think all of the soil in New York is golden.''
As does Steve Page, a soil scientist with the state office of the federal Agriculture Department. Mr. Page said he was present at a meeting of fellow scientists in the 1980s when Honeoye, which is common in central and western New York, was picked because ''it was one of the best agricultural soils.'' And black dirt? ''I have to say that one didn't come up,'' he said.
Nonetheless, Mr. Page said Honeoye was never ratified by the Legislature, and black dirt was ''still worthy'' of the honor, adding that he would not stand in the way of its nomination.
''I don't think I'll be upset,'' he said. ''But there might be an adjustment period.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John J. Bonacic
 The jet-black soil from the Black Dirt region of New York State is known for being exceptionally fertile and easy to plow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); RODENTS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



869 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Improvements in Housing Help Drive U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Gains in housing and manufacturing propelled the nation's economy over the winter, according to reports released Tuesday. And analysts say they point to the resilience of consumers and businesses as government spending cuts take effect.
Home prices rose 8.1 percent in January, the fastest annual rate since the peak of the housing boom in summer 2006. Demand for longer-lasting factory goods increased 5.7 percent in February, the biggest gain in five months. 
February sales of new homes and March consumer confidence looked shakier. But the overall picture reflected an improving economy.
''There is nothing in this data that says the economy is falling back,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors.
The year-over-year increase in home prices reported by the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city index was the fastest since June 2006. Prices rose in all 20 cities and eight markets posted double-digit increases, including some of those hardest hit during the crisis. Prices rose 23.2 percent in Phoenix, 17.5 percent in San Francisco and 15.3 percent in Las Vegas.
The strength in home prices has far from erased the damage from the crisis. Home prices nationwide are still on average 29 percent below the peak reached in August 2006.
Sales of new homes cooled in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 411,000, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday. That is down from January's pace of 431,000, which was the fastest since September 2008. But February's pace was still better than every other month since April 2010, when a temporary home-buying tax credit was lifting sales. And February sales were 12.3 percent higher than a year earlier.
''We are still far from the healthy level of 700,000, but we're slowly making our way in that direction,'' said Jennifer Lee, senior economist with BMO Capital Markets. ''We just have to accept the fact that the path will be interrupted once in a while, and that's what happened in February.''
Manufacturing is also pushing the economy this year, and factories were busier in February, the Commerce Department's report on durable goods orders said.
The increase in February was caused by a surge in commercial aircraft orders, which tend to be volatile. Still, orders for motor vehicles and parts increased solidly, suggesting demand for cars and trucks remains strong.
Orders for machinery and other goods that signal business investment plans fell sharply in February. But the decline followed the biggest monthly gain in nearly three years. Economists had expected companies to ease up after their spending spree in January. When looking at the two months together, business investment has accelerated from the end of 2012.
''The picture of business spending to start the year is fairly healthy,'' said Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at BTIG, an institutional brokerage.
But tax increases and government spending cuts could slow the economy's momentum. Both weighed on consumers' minds in March.
The Conference Board, a private research group, said its Consumer Confidence Index fell to 59.7 this month, down from 68 in February. The decline was mainly a result of a drop in expectations for the economy in the next six months, though consumers also were more pessimistic about current economic conditions.
The survey was conducted from March 1 through March 14, as $85 billion in automatic spending cuts began. Consumers were already feeling pinched by higher Social Security taxes that have reduced take-home pay for most workers this year. And gasoline prices rose sharply in February, then eased slightly this month.
''It was sort of a perfect storm,'' said Chris G. Christopher Jr., director of consumer economics at IHS Global Insight. ''I do expect confidence to rebound as long as there is no government shutdown and the political bickering in Washington doesn't reach a fever pitch.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.
 New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



870 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: A 'Cop's Cop,' Who Led the Force for 12 Years, Retires

BYLINE: By WENDY RUDERMAN; Edna Ishayik contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The ingredients were there for an ugly encounter.
Thousands of protesters had converged on Herald Square during the 2004 Republican National Convention. They surrounded police officers who stood in the middle of the intersection and steeled themselves to push back the surging crowd.
''It was an extraordinarily tense and chaotic situation,'' recalled Christopher Dunn, the associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who that day had witnessed a high-ranking officer tackle a woman to the ground. 
But then the chief of the Police Department, Joseph J. Esposito, appeared on the scene. He urged calm among his officers and the protesters. In short order, the tenor changed.
For more than 40 years, as Chief Esposito has risen to become the highest-ranking uniformed member of the department, he has shown an uncanny ability to defuse heated moments. His clearheaded leadership style has won over the rank-and-file and earned him the respect of some of the department's most ardent critics, including Mr. Dunn.
Chief Esposito will retire on Wednesday -- one day before he turns 63, the force's mandatory retirement age. A rarity, he has served as chief for more than 12 years, longer than any of his predecessors, and held the position over two administrations. A successor has yet to be named.
Chief Esposito was first appointed by Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik in 2000. Born and raised in Brooklyn, Chief Esposito entered the department as a police trainee in 1968 after he graduated from high school.
''He was a regular cop's cop,'' said Joseph Pollini, a retired police lieutenant commander and professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan. ''He knew how to talk to people.''
Mr. Pollini recalled a bitter cold day in January 2002 when he was posted on a Midtown corner during the World Economic Forum. Chief Esposito rolled up, stepped out of his sport utility vehicle and shook hands with Mr. Pollini and the other officers, reminding them to take breaks to warm themselves.
''He rose through the ranks and he never forgot that at any time,'' Mr. Pollini said. ''He never forgot that he was a police officer, the guy out on the street, in the rain and in the cold. He would walk up and talk to you and make you feel comfortable.''
During a ribbon-cutting at the newly renovated Central Park Precinct station house on Tuesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg praised Mr. Esposito, crediting him with spearheading policing strategies that significantly reduced crime.
''The story of Central Park symbolizes how far we've come,'' the mayor said. ''When Chief Esposito joined the N.Y.P.D., the park was notoriously unsafe, and shunned by New Yorkers and visitors. Today, about 40 million people enjoy Central Park every year.''
Mr. Bloomberg noted that Chief Esposito, who directed and oversaw the daily operations of seven major enforcement bureaus as chief, managed the department's response to some of the city's most difficult moments, from the Sept. 11 terrorist attack to Hurricane Sandy and the storm's aftermath.
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, who attended the ribbon-cutting ceremony, echoed the mayor's sentiments about Mr. Esposito: ''He's done a phenomenal job. We're going to miss him, but he has been tremendous.''
Chief Esposito, who has typically shunned the limelight, told reporters that he had no future plans. (His name has been floated as a possible contender as the department's next police commissioner.) When asked to share one of his happiest memories on the job, he said, ''The entire career.''
Chief Esposito's tenure, however, has not been without bumps. Last March, Mr. Esposito was seen on video jabbing Occupy Wall Street protesters with his baton and yelling at them to stay on the sidewalk. In 2006, he was accused of making a derogatory comment about Jews during a clash between police officers and Brooklyn residents. He promptly wrote a letter of apology, which was accepted by community leaders. Those leaders said he helped close a rift created by the protests, in which hundreds of Orthodox Jews demonstrated in Borough Park. Some set bonfires and burned a police car.
Mr. Dunn, who was not privy to either episode, said he had seen Mr. Esposito chatting with protesters, noting that he genuinely ''likes people.''
''Over the years I've had many dealings with Chief Esposito, including having spent a lot of time on the street with him at large protests,'' Mr. Dunn said. ''Though he can be a tough guy and has gone overboard on occasion, he's usually reasonable and engaging, and he has a good relationship with many longtime protesters. I will miss him, and his departure will leave a real void at the top of the department.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, center, greeted Police Chief Joseph J. Esposito at a ribbon-cutting event in Central Park in Manhattan on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 JOSEPH POLLINI, a retired lieutenant commander, speaking about Chief Esposito, shown above center, at his appointment ceremony in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); RANKINGS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (67%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



871 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NET WORTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: A Market Shift Toward the Positive

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

 BODY:
Lee Boon Keng, head of the Investment Solutions Group at Bank Julius Baer in Singapore, spoke recently about current market conditions and investment opportunities.
Q. What are markets telling you now?
A. Market sentiments are generally optimistic. The backdrop of a steadily recovering U.S. economy, China avoiding a hard landing, and Europe having a framework to skirt a systemic breakdown bodes well for the market. The fact that major central banks are not in a hurry to take away the quantitative easing punchbowl has provided the necessary fuel to this optimism.
There continues to be much debate over the long-awaited switch from bonds to equities. In recent months, equities have outperformed bonds. Yet to date, the money flows in and out of bond funds have not shown large-scale switching. Is it time to take on more risk? 
A. Yes, particularly in markets where valuation is attractive. Cases in point are Japan and China. Investors have not been long Japan for a long time, and we believe that the recent rally has some ways to go. Likewise for China, where valuation is attractive, so growth potential remains robust.
Q. What do you think will be a tipping point for the return of investors in force to the equity market?
A. Reforms in the financial sector will be a key driver for the Chinese economy going forward, with a focus on sustainable growth. A more robust growth trajectory calls for long-term strategic holdings in Chinese assets, particularly in its currency.
Q. What other equity markets do you like?
A. We like Europe. For the next leg of the rally, Europe must stabilize and show signs of bottoming out economically. The framework to getting there is well established, in our view. Politics will find the right path. The collective objective cannot be the demise of the European Union. We want to take advantage of the market sell-off on European equities.
Q. For diversified portfolios, do you suggest any change in the allocation to bonds?
A. Yes, we have reduced allocations on investment-grade bonds to focus on selected low-investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds. A more stable global economic environment means that it pays to move down the credit quality curve to get higher yield. In an improving market, the probability of default falls. Over all, however, we prefer equities.
Q. So where do you advise clients to have the bulk of their assets right now?
A. First, that would depend on the client's risk appetite. A person's core portfolio should be focused on sustainable return, with a clear income stream. On the equity front, we have identified what we call global excellence stocks which will participate in an up market but hold up better in a down market. Tactically, we are edging into risk -- equities, high-yield fixed income and foreign exchange.
Q. What about commodities? Is this a good time to invest?
A. The commodity supercycle of the past decade could be behind us given that China is focusing on sustainable growth rather than high growth. We believe in trading in that space, holding a small percentage of gold strategically as a hedge.
Q. What should investors be concerned about?
A. One concern would be the U.S. Federal Reserve's premature ending of stimulus. Despite it being a remote possibility in 2013, the market may price way ahead if the recovery gathers momentum, especially in the labor market. For a market that has grown accustomed to easy and cheap money, this could ignite a sharp correction across all asset classes. The market is not ready for that yet.
Q. For a client willing to take on more risk, where do you see the best investment opportunities?
A. Given that the real estate market in the United States appears to have bottomed, distressed real estate via a private equity vehicle is one. The private equity sector has been best at working through this type of market. However, choosing the right fund is key.
Another lies in foreign exchange. We could be at the start of a major shift into a stronger U.S. dollar environment with firmer recovery in the United States, while other major central banks such as the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank ramp up quantitative easing. If the dollar is indeed turning stronger, investors should adopt a strategy to systematically buy the dollar against other currencies.
Q. Ultrahigh-net-worth individuals have been showing growing appetite for investing in commercial properties. What do you advise on that front?
A. Real estate is an asset class to consider in any market environment. That said, due to its illiquidity, timing of investment is of paramount importance. Generally, investors should avoid real estate in a country where the government is trying to cool the real estate market, and invest in a country where the government is trying to encourage prices to rise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



872 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: NET WORTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: Taxing the Wealthy Is Not So Easy

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
The French have been making the rich pay since 1789. But when a 75 percent tax rate on incomes exceeding &#x20ac;1 million was deemed unconstitutional before it could take effect, it seemed that there was a limit to what could be severed from a wealthy citizen.
Americans were spared an unpleasant fate, too. A last-minute compromise in Congress averted a dive off the ''fiscal cliff'' and annulled severe tax increases that had been scheduled on earned income, dividends, interest and capital gains.
If taxpayers take these near misses as signs that their burdens are easing, they may be disappointed. The French ruling in late December was based on a technicality, and the government has vowed to tweak the law and try again. As for the deal in Washington on New Year's Day, it did not let everyone off scot-free; an estimated three-fourths of all taxpayers received an increase of some sort, most through the expiration of a payroll tax reduction. 
The two-year payroll tax break of two percentage points was intended to stimulate economic growth, as were various tax concessions enacted in Europe during the financial crisis. They, too, are being rolled back by cash-strapped governments, creating de facto tax increases. The moves indicate that while officials continue to declare that the rich are their primary target, their sights are shifting to the comfortable and to the multitudes just getting by.
''If you look at the middle class, they're paying the bill at the moment,'' said Marnix van Rij, a partner at Ernst & Young who is its head of global personal tax services. ''All over Europe we saw huge stimulus plans. Governments tried to keep expenditures at a certain level, while introducing tax incentives to keep consumption and investment going. They have canceled all of these temporary tax incentives and at the same time started to increase rates and broaden the tax base. It's really a time of austerity here.''
The need to extract more from the middle class is a matter of simple arithmetic. A wealthy taxpayer has more money than someone of modest means, but there are far fewer wealthy taxpayers to tap, and doing so is not easy, as the recent episode in France shows.
The Constitutional Council, which serves a role similar to that of the U.S. Supreme Court, struck down the bill mandating the 75 percent rate on the ground that it applied to individuals instead of households, as French law requires. A bigger problem with enforcing such a heavy tax liability, as President François Hollande discovered, is that many rich taxpayers literally will not sit still for it.
Wealthy French are taking up residence in Britain, Belgium and Switzerland; some are also seeking foreign citizenship, including high-profile figures like the actor Gérard Depardieu and the luxury-goods magnate Bernard Arnault.
Mr. Hollande's government intends to rewrite the law in a way that withstands constitutional scrutiny, but Michael Graetz, a professor at Yale University Law School, wonders whether it will happen. The exodus of wealthy taxpayers and the prospect that more will choose to leave than pay a 75 percent tax present ''a deeper conundrum than many people realized,'' he said.
Ian Shane, a tax lawyer at the New York firm Golenbock Eiseman Assor Bell & Peskoe, predicts that little additional revenue will be generated even if the high rate goes into effect, but as he sees it, that may suit the French authorities just fine. He finds the law to be a matter of public relations as much as public policy.
''They've got to be seen to hammer people who are rich,'' Mr. Shane said. ''Governments know that to get real money, they have to tax people at the bottom of the pyramid, but they have to make a play at taxing the rich while they're really mugging the poor.''
Some policy specialists contend that a new European tax on financial transactions accomplishes that feat. It is aimed at banks and financial speculators, but it could end up being borne by ordinary account holders.
The tax -- one-tenth of 1 percent of the value of stock and bond trades and one-hundredth of 1 percent of the value of derivative trades -- is to be implemented next January. It is expected to apply in 11 of the 27 European Union countries, including Germany and France but not Britain.
The tax is promoted as a way to curb volatility in financial markets and bring in annual revenue of about &#x20ac;35 billion, or $45 billion. Critics say it will shift trading elsewhere, to London and New York, for instance, and therefore be less effective than hoped and a financial and bookkeeping burden to banks and asset managers.
As for the other 16 member states that said ''no thanks'' to the tax, officials are peeved that they will be forced to collect it on transactions in their jurisdictions that involve residents of the 11 participants. They contend, moreover, that savers and investors ultimately will have to pay the tax rather than banks, hedge funds and other wheeler-dealers. In fact, they say, the little guy could get hit twice, for the actual tax and for the added cost of collecting it.
''We don't think the tax is a very good idea,'' said Georges Bock, chairman of the Tax Technical Committee of the Association of the Luxembourg Fund Industry. ''Neither the European Commission nor European politicians are being honest here. They want institutions to make a fair contribution to resolving the crisis, and they want to discourage bad behavior, but it asks private persons to contribute their private savings. Officials make believe that just banks are paying it.''
A bit of theatricality has been detected in the displeasure that the British prime minister, David Cameron, recently expressed toward multinational businesses that he thinks are not paying their fair share of tax in his country. He singled out the coffee purveyor Starbucks, which structures its business, perfectly legally, to record more profits in jurisdictions like Switzerland and the Netherlands and fewer in less tax-friendly places like Britain.
Mr. Cameron's tactic seems to have worked. Starbucks pledged to make voluntary additional tax payments in Britain over the next two years, but according to The Telegraph, the managing director of the company's British operations also asked for a meeting with the prime minister and threatened to cut investment in Britain if the government did not back off its criticism.
Mr. van Rij at Ernst & Young, who also serves as chairman of the Dutch Association of Tax Advisers, finds Mr. Cameron's outrage somewhat hypocritical and at odds with what he sees as Britain's quite reasonable policy of offering tax concessions to foreign businesses that set up shop there.
''David Cameron is clinging to a moral dimension in this discussion,'' Mr. van Rij said. But while the prime minister berates companies for legally minimizing their tax liability, ''the U.K. is positioning itself as the most attractive destination in the E.U. and doing it with all kinds of tax incentives.''
Another strategy that some tax policy specialists view as politically motivated is to try to keep individuals and businesses from benefiting from keeping money abroad, especially in offshore territories considered tax havens.
A bill proposed in the United States by Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, would limit the ability of American businesses to shelter overseas income from taxation back home. It would also make it more difficult for Americans to escape tax liability by using offshore corporate entities.
Spain is taking steps to limit its citizens' use of offshore centers, too, at least without full disclosure. Beginning April 30, Spaniards will have to report details of foreign assets or face stiff penalties, according to the advisory firm Blevins Franks Financial Management.
Countries are seeking more information from one another, too. The accountancy KPMG reports that data-sharing agreements have been reached this year between Canada and Uruguay and between Argentina and India.
Offshore centers are feeling pressure from Britain to disclose information about clients who might be using accounts in their jurisdictions to skip out on obligations to the Exchequer. The government has asked the authorities in various territories to provide information about British account holders.
The rampant inquisitiveness is an extension of a trend begun with the passage in the United States in 2010 of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or Fatca, a law seeking similar information about U.S. citizens. Initial indications were that foreign governments would not comply, but Mr. Graetz notes that attitudes have changed.
''I think there's going to be a lot more transparency,'' he said. ''When Fatca was enacted, I had conversations with people at the European Commission about whether they were going to cooperate. They said they wouldn't, but that has been reversed in the last couple of years. Fatca has created something of a revolution in the exchange of information.''
The law's success encouraged Britain's undertaking of what some financial professionals have dubbed ''son of Fatca.'' So far, though, results have been mixed.
The governments of Guernsey and Jersey, in the Channel Islands, issued a joint statement in December that they would not comply with Britain's request until the authorities there ''make clear the steps they are taking to promote the adoption of automatic exchange of information worldwide to ensure that a level playing field is achieved for all finance centers.''
The Isle of Man has been more forthcoming. It has agreed to comply with Fatca, and John Spellman, director of financial services for the island, said the government was in ''the final throes of negotiation'' to disclose information to Britain. All that remains, he said, is for safeguards to be put in place to protect account holders' data from other prying eyes.
''We don't think it's an unreasonable request to release information to combat tax evasion,'' he said.
''What we have seen is that when we've agreed to release information, the impact has been almost negligible'' on business, he said. ''We see the world moving to more automatic exchange of information, and we're happy to embrace it.''
Mr. Shane has observed the same development, and he envisions other countries' joining the United States and Britain in seeking and offering personal financial data.
''In the last few months many countries have started to say they're interested,'' he said. ''This is the first step in a global tax database. For now they're just handing information over, but it's only a matter of time before there's a database started in the U.S. and used by other countries.''
Mr. Shane predicted that ''offshore centers as we know them are going to disappear.''
Mr. Graetz did not speculate on their longevity, but he anticipates big changes in how customers use them.
''There may continue to be legal avenues for reducing taxes, particularly by running business income through tax havens,'' he said, ''but in terms of high-income individuals' being able to sock away money in some low-tax jurisdiction, those days are coming rapidly to an end.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); DIVIDENDS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EURO CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



873 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Dean on Ethics and Global Education

BYLINE: By JOYCE LAU

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Nitin Nohria, a Mumbai native, is the first Asian dean of Harvard Business School. He spoke about globalization, culture shock, the importance of teaching business ethics and why ''bank'' need not be a four-letter word.
Q. Several major U.S. universities are opening campuses in the Middle East and Asia. Are there similar plans at your school?
A. Harvard Business School made a decision -- and only time will tell whether it's a good or bad one -- that investing globally in full-scale campuses is not the most sensible way to promote globalization. We have a hard time being convinced that we could offer the same educational experiences abroad. Replicating the hardware of a campus is easy; but it takes a long time to build the software.
Q. How do you stay in touch with an increasingly globalized world? 
A. Our approach is to have the biggest global intellectual footprint with the smallest physical footprint. We have seven international research centers -- the one here in Hong Kong was our first. Well, actually one is in Silicon Valley. But when you're in Boston, that sometimes feels like a foreign country. (Laughs.)
In January we opened a very lean center in Istanbul, which is a great meeting point between the East and West, a place where one can easily reach the Middle East, Eastern Europe and former Soviet states.
We write 250 to 300 case studies a year, and more than half of these are international. So our students are reading about China and India, Brazil and Africa.
When you started your job in 2010, you said that you would send all your students overseas. How has that worked?
A. Two years ago, we introduced the ''field method'' of teaching. All 900 of our first-year students must travel abroad as a requirement. At the time, a lot of people told us we were crazy because of the logistics of it.
They spend 10 weeks in Boston coming up with a business idea, and then they take it overseas for a one-week experience with a company. Very quickly, they realize the profound difference between their imaginations and reality. Most of them say that this was one of their most powerful experiences at our school.
Q. There's a belief today that children must stay on a narrow academic path to succeed, and that any failure could doom them later in life. But you were initially rejected from your alma mater, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.
A. When I was a student in India, you could apply to university twice -- the first time in 11th grade. When I didn't get in, I felt like my life was over. But I tried again the next year.
People did not wait for admissions letters then, as the postal system was unreliable. The universities would post lists of names on campus. So everyone would show up. The names were arranged not alphabetically but by rank, with a line drawn under the last student admitted. I'd never been happier to be No. 600 on a list.
It's quite sad that we put children through this extraordinary stress. It takes a long time to discover what you are really good at.
Q. When did you figure out what you wanted to do?
A. When I went to M.I.T. for my Ph.D., I started by studying finance, which I felt was closer to my engineering background. But I knew that there were other engineering students, and finance students, who were great at doing math in their heads. I was not. I couldn't do it.
But I started studying sociology, psychology and behavior, which I'd never had the chance to experience. These were natural subjects for me.
If I told my parents as a 16-year-old that I wanted to study sociology, my dad would say, ''What? You want to live on the streets?''
This is why I deeply appreciate the liberal arts education in the United States. M.I.T. is known as an engineering school, but it has a great humanities department. I worry that, in a system that puts so much pressure on performance and testing, that we squeeze out the intellectual discovery.
Q. Did you have culture shock going to America as a 21-year-old?
A. My culture shock was that I felt like I'd arrived at a village from the big city of Bombay. Boston felt like a small town -- you couldn't even go out for dinner after 10 p.m., which we did all the time back home. I'd have to go to New York once a month just to feel like I was in a big city again.
I had to learn how to get through the sandwich line. The lady would ask, ''What bread?'' And I wouldn't know. In India, we only had one kind of bread. I thought my ordeal was over, but then she'd ask, ''What cheese? What condiment?''
But, to be serious, my real adaptation was to the new education system. I called my professors ''sir.'' And my professor said, ''Call me Don.'' It took me a month to call him ''Don.''
I could say anything on my mind. I didn't have to self-censor. I could tell someone that I thought he was wrong. It was so liberating. I had the right to be anyone's intellectual equal.
I took my first class with a Nobel winner, Franco Modigliani. I thought I'd have to bow and scrape, but it was just a regular class.
Q. Do overseas students today have to make these same adjustments?
A. Well, we have the same sandwiches in India now as in America.
Most Harvard Business School students have already worked a few years. Their experiences tend to be tied to the global economy, even if they are working for domestic companies. So their companies have already given them a certain amount of exposure. We choose people who are already entrepreneurial.
International students who have never worked in the United States do have a period of adaptation, but it is usually short.
On your first day at Harvard Business School, you have to participate. As you probably know, we teach by the case-study method. There are no lectures.
In the beginning, some students only say what they've prepared to say before class; they are not discussing things in real time. But what's remarkable is how educationally pliable people still are. I'm constantly amazed. You'd think that 20 years of education would make you incapable of learning in another way.
Q. When you were appointed, much was made of your research in the field of ethics -- not something usually associated with modern-day business.
A. It used to be the case that the definition of a good business was one that was as good as its word. In small-town America, the local banker was the most respectable man in town. Now, ''bank'' is a four-letter word.
There is nothing inherently unethical about business. They've always had to earn the trust of their constituency. If you're trusted, good things happen. Customers come back.
Q. Do you teach business ethics?
A. We have a full required course called ''Leadership and Corporate Accountability.'' Here's one case: A company sells something called ''100 percent apple juice,'' but it's actually flavored water. You can be put into prison for that.
Q. Your students are among the top in the world. Is it necessary to teach intelligent people that they can't sell fake apple juice?
A. They should be reminded of their responsibilities. Just as most people overestimate how smart they are, many may overestimate how good they are.
It's easy for people to believe in their own sense of moral responsibility; but what happens when they are put under pressure by bosses or tempted by large short-term gains?
Q. Speaking of fake apple juice, there have been problems with product safety, labor practices, nepotism and bribery in major Asian nations. While these problems exist everywhere, they seem more prominent in developing countries. What advice do you have for people operating in these markets?
A. There is this sense of ''When in Rome, do as the Romans do. When in Asia. ...'' And there is a different accepted level of corruption in each nation. So, if you try to adopt a different standard, are you foolish? Are you penalized for operating in a way that is morally better?
Look at Infosys and Tata. I'm not saying they're lily white. But relatively speaking, they operate closer to how a global company does in the West.
You do have a choice. You can make shoddy products, or you can make high-quality ones that people want.
I was speaking with Azim Premji of Wipro, a major outsourcing company. I asked, ''How did you have the courage to remain ethical?''
He said, ''Those people who are corrupt need to allocate resources to that: They kept being asked to pay more and more bribes. But they gave up on asking me for bribes. Now I can work freely.''
Q. Do you think some cultures lead to worse behavior than others?
A. Some cultures are corrupt, like Enron's. This is the biggest mistake people make when they think about ethical failings: They think it's one bad apple.
But much of the time it's good people who have found themselves in circumstances in which they've lost their moral compass. We tell our students to be truthful -- to recognize when they've had a moral lapse.
We ask them to admit to things they've done in the past, like cheated or taken bribes. And then we say, ''Why did that happen?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); BUSINESS ETHICS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ETHICS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); POSTAL SERVICE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); CASE STUDIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%); DELHI, INDIA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); CHINA (79%); TURKEY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



874 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Practice Gets A Closer Look By Regulators

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Among the conditions imposed on most people who borrow money to buy a house, maintaining property insurance is one of the most common. If a borrower lets such a policy lapse, the lender will often protect its investment by purchasing a policy and billing the homeowner for it. 
That practice, known as force-placed or lender-placed insurance, has recently attracted the attention of federal and state regulators, who say that the policies often have premiums that are considerably higher than the policies they replace and might impose abusive costs on homeowners.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the country's two biggest mortgage guarantors, on Tuesday proposed a new rule that would prohibit insurance companies from paying sales commissions for force-placed insurance to lenders or mortgage servicers.
After a 60-day comment period, the agency will possibly revise its proposal, which will be issued before the end of the year, according to an agency notice.
''In the wake of the financial crisis, demands for lender-placed insurance have risen,'' the agency said. As a result, so have expenses for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Several regulators, including the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and state attorneys general, have expressed concerns about ''excessive rates and costs passed onto borrowers, as well as commissions and other compensation paid to servicers by carriers,'' the federal agency said.
Last week, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York announced a $14 million settlement with Assurant, one of the largest providers of force-placed insurance. The settlement included several provisions that prohibit some commissions and expenses.
The settlement also required the company to file its rates with the state and allows New York insurance regulators to monitor Assurant's practices.
''Our investigation found that insurers and banks built a network of troubling relationships and payoffs that helped drive premiums sky-high,'' said Benjamin M. Lawsky, New York's top financial regulator. ''Those improper practices created significant conflicts of interest and saddled homeowners, taxpayers and investors with millions of dollars in unfair and unnecessary costs.''
The housing finance authority said that premiums for force-placed insurance were generally double or more the cost of insurance bought directly by a homeowner. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are affected, the agency said, when a bank or servicer pays the higher premiums and later, unable to recapture the cost from the homeowner, passes the expense along to the companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (55%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



875 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Shore Rebuilding, Renters Go South for Summer

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
ORTLEY BEACH, N.J. -- In a typical summer, Terriann and Joseph LoVerde's rental here makes for a listing a real estate broker called a real moneymaker.
A block from the beach! Walk to town! Two units and a cottage in back -- bring the extended family!
This year, they would have to include a few caveats: Hurricane Sandy wiped out walls and windows, after washing away three houses between the LoVerdes' and the beach.
Here in the heart of the Jersey Shore, the warmer days of spring hint at the promise of summer: Ice cream at the Music Man, breakfasts at the Sunny Hunny. But roofs that were swept off by the storm still rest beside the main street. Beaches have been shortened by 30 or 40 feet, leaving no promise that one's favorite spot to lay down a towel can still be found. 
Houses like the LoVerdes' are not available, and renters are staying away even from homes that are rentable, fearing that things look far bleaker now than they do in the sun-baked memories of summers past.
''Putting myself in their shoes, I'd be thinking, why would I go there?'' Mrs. LoVerde said.
A state report on tourism released last week called it the $22 billion question: Will the shore be ready for summer? Rentals are the key to that, and to the shore economy, which in turn generates half of the state's $40 billion tourist market. With fewer renters, restaurants and stores do not see as much business, cannot hire as many people, or generate as much tax revenue for a state already suffering from losses to the property base.
Two months before Memorial Day, at a time when many properties would already be fully booked for summer, people along this stretch of the coast have some idea where the absentees have gone. In the southern end of the state, where the storm caused little damage, rentals and hotels are filling up faster than in most years.
As if to rub it in, Sea Isle City is advertising on a billboard outside the Lincoln Tunnel, hoping to attract people from New York and New Jersey who might otherwise have vacationed farther north. ''We're ready,'' it declares.
Brokers here say the storm wiped out 90 percent of the rental properties in places like Ortley Beach, Deauville Beach and Normandy Beach, and a significant share even in places where dunes fended off the worst damage. Even some houses that are ready to rent are having a hard time finding tenants; it's no one's idea of a summer vacation to see a house off its foundation two doors down, or hear contractors up the street sawing at 7 a.m.
Eric Birchler, who runs a real estate firm here that his family has owned for 50 years, said he normally rents 400 houses a year, 100 of them in Ortley Beach alone. This year, he has rented two here. (Homes typically rent by the week, for anywhere from $1,600 for a basic bungalow to $12,000 for a modern oceanfront house.)
''Are people going to go to Southern Jersey or the Maryland beaches or Florida?'' he asked. ''We'd have to be crazy to think otherwise.''
Lee Childers, whose real estate firm works out of five offices along the coast, normally rents 800 houses a summer, but so far this year he has done about 5 percent of that. Many renters from last year had put down deposits in anticipation of returning; with the damage, he has already given two-thirds of those their money back.
Even towns like Lavallette and Seaside Park, where the houses are in better shape, are suffering from the perception problem. Some are trying to assuage the fears of prospective visitors by offering renters' insurance for the first time, which would allow people to recoup their money in case of evacuation or damage.
''It's such bad publicity with a roller coaster still in the ocean,'' Mr. Childers said. ''Will people from North Jersey say, 'Oh, Seaside Park is O.K., but Ortley isn't?' ''
Certainly, there are signs of a resurrection along the shore. Contractors' trucks are everywhere. The A.&P. in Ortley Beach is open again, and so is the hardware store in Lavallette, next door, and up the street from that, the Crab's Claw Inn. Front-end loaders level the sand on the beaches, and machines hammer pilings for new boardwalks, beating a path toward summer.
Gov. Chris Christie has pledged that the shore will be ''open for business'' by Memorial Day.
But along Route 35, which bisects this barrier island between the Atlantic Ocean and Barnegat Bay, mountains of sand wait to be sifted, to clear it of potentially dangerous debris. On the bay side, a playground and a pizza restaurant slope toward a sinkhole. The State Police patrol the roads, and block access to the beaches. Cars still slow down along Route 35 to take in the sight of houses torn in half, and the roller coaster still sticks like a mangled limb out of the ocean off Seaside Heights.
''How attractive the community may be is a question mark,'' said Bob Navitski, who has removed more than 100 cubic yards of sand from the yellow house that he rents out on an oceanfront block in Ortley Beach. The water washed in by the storm was 29 inches deep. He has given up on renting it this summer, though he relies on the $3,500 in weekly rent to pay his mortgage.
''In my opinion it will be five years to recover,'' he said. ''I don't mean five years until we rent it -- five years until the scars are gone.''
The only upside, he said, is that his family, which usually has to use the house more during the off-season, might get some extra summer weeks this year.
Years ago, Mark Fusari moved his money from the stock market into the four beach houses he owns here ''because of so much volatility.''
''You could say the Dow has dropped 5,000 for me now,'' he said. His houses are ready to rent, but with so much wreckage around them, they have been slow to go. The last week of August has drawn the most interest, because tenants expect that by then the shore will look more like what they are accustomed to. Though the rentals normally produce about $100,000 a summer, Mr. Fusari thinks he will be lucky to make half that this year.
Dee Lanzalotti, a broker in Cape May, at the southern tip of the state, said her rentals are up 42 percent. ''Two days after the storm we got calls from people who already had leases saying, 'This is what we were renting there, do you have something that might be comparable?' '' she said.
In nearby Sea Isle City, whose Chamber of Commerce leased the billboard outside the Lincoln Tunnel, a spike in rentals suggests they have succeeded in poaching some vacationers from the New York City area. ''We're going to have a very good summer as a result,'' said Christopher Glancey, the chamber president and a real estate broker.
Here in Ortley Beach, landlords and brokers are hoping that as the weather warms, fondness for the shore will replace fear. ''I think people will rent more out of 'We want to support the rebuilding,' rather than 'It's going to be a great summer,' '' said Tim O'Shea, a broker who lost his own home and two rental units here in the storm. ''People don't have a lot of faith in the fact that there's going to be much of a summer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Lavallette, N.J., repairs to homes, the boardwalk and the beach, all damaged during Hurricane Sandy, are continuing. (A1)
Two months before Memorial Day, destruction to homes and the beach from the storm is still highly visible in Ortley Beach, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Workers finish the landscaping on a rental in Ortley Beach, left. In Seaside Heights, the beach and boardwalk are being rebuilt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); FAMILY (77%); WEATHER (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); TOURISM (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (67%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



876 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: To Save the King of the Jungle, a Call to Pen Him In

BYLINE: By JAMES GORMAN

 BODY:
After 35 years of field research in the Serengeti plains, Craig Packer, director of the Lion Research Center at the University of Minnesota, has lost all patience with the romance of African wilderness. Fences, he says, are the only way to stop the precipitous and continuing decline in the number of African lions.
''Reality has to intrude,'' he said. ''Do you want to know the two most hated species in Africa, by a mile? Elephants and lions.'' They destroy crops and livestock, he said, and sometimes, in the case of lions, actually eat people. 
Dr. Packer's goal is to save lions. Fencing them in, away from people and livestock, is the best way to do that, he believes, both for conservation and economics. He made that argument in a paper this month in Ecology Letters, along with 57 co-authors, including most of the top lion scientists and conservationists.
The paper lays out the value of fences in clear terms, although it stops short of endorsing fencing as the only sensible option. That is Dr. Packer's own view. With a growing human population whose rights must be respected, he says, open and free co-existence with lions is not practical, nor is it fair to the humans who have to live with the big cats.
In conversation, Dr. Packer goes beyond the measured scientific prose of the paper, venting his frustration with the fantasy often offered to tourists of a free and unfettered African wilderness. ''That's 130 years ago,'' he said. ''I'm just trying to push people to admit the obvious. Let's get real here.''
Lions in Africa have lost 75 percent of their range in the last 100 years, problems between people and lions have increased, and some populations suffer from genetic isolation. Panthera, a conservationist organization devoted to big cats, estimates that there are 30,000 lions in Africa today, down from 200,000 lions 100 years ago.
Some populations are doing well, like those in the Serengeti, which is not fenced, and those in large and small reserves in South Africa.
Using surveys from 42 sites in 11 countries in Africa, the authors of the paper in Ecology Letters concluded that without fencing, it would cost $2,000 a square kilometer, or less than half a square mile, annually to keep lions at 50 percent of their potential numbers. With fencing, the cost would be $500 a year to maintain 80 percent of their potential numbers.
Some of the preserves in South Africa are vast. Kruger National Park covers 7,500 square miles, an area larger than Connecticut and Rhode Island together.
Fencing itself is expensive, costing about $3,000 a kilometer, or six-tenths of a mile, to install. But without it, the paper concludes, almost half of the unfenced lion populations could come close to extinction in the next few decades.
Not all the authors see fencing as the only solution, although they recognize its value in many situations. Luke Hunter, the president of Panthera, and a co-author, said, ''it's clear that fencing does help lion conservation.'' And, he said, people outside of Africa underestimate the difficulties posed by lions, which, he said, are ''really, really difficult to live with if you're a subsistence human population that depends on livestock.''
But, Dr. Hunter said, he had reservations about wholesale fencing. He said the authors had not been able to evaluate the effectiveness of the various efforts to resolve conflicts between lions and people, including livestock management and other issues, because there had simply not been enough of them. Also, he said, ''there are still huge parts of wilderness in Africa,'' where conflicts between humans and lions are not yet a problem. And if Africa's burgeoning human population concentrates in cities rather than fanning out through wilderness areas, he said, there might be fewer problems between the species, diminishing the need for fencing.
Both Dr. Packer and Dr. Hunter believe that developed countries in the West, and institutions like the World Bank, must contribute more to protect Africa's resources, which can help generate economic development through tourism.
Many African countries will need help. Even if they choose fencing as the most cost effective solution, some can't afford it on their own. Fencing the Selous Game Reserve in Tanzania, for instance, would cost $30 million, Dr. Packer said. The area must then be managed. At about 17,000 square miles, the yearly bill to manage the lion population there, fenced, would be $22 million. And that is not the only lion area in Tanzania.
The needs of the human population must be recognized, Dr. Packer said, and fencing helps to do that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); CATS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); WRITERS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) AFRICA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



877 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: New Mexico Farmers Seek 'Priority Call' As Drought Persists

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
CARLSBAD, N.M. -- Just after the local water board announced this month that its farmers would get only one-tenth of their normal water allotment this year, Ronnie Walterscheid, 53, stood up and called on his elected representatives to declare a water war on their upstream neighbors.
''It's always been about us giving up,'' Mr. Walterscheid said, to nods. ''I say we push back hard right now.''
The drought-fueled anger of southeastern New Mexico's farmers and ranchers is boiling, and there is nowhere near enough water in the desiccated Pecos River to cool it down. Roswell, about 75 miles to the north, has somewhat more water available and so is the focus of intense resentment here. Mr. Walterscheid and others believe that Roswell's artesian wells reduce Carlsbad's surface water. 
For decades, the regional status quo meant the northerners pumped groundwater and the southerners piped surface water. Now, amid the worst drought on record, some in Carlsbad say they must upend the status quo to survive. They want to make what is known as a priority call on the Pecos River.
A priority call, an exceedingly rare maneuver, is the nuclear option in the world of water. Such a call would try to force the state to return to what had been the basic principle of water distribution in the West: the lands whose owners first used the water -- in most cases farmland -- get first call on it in times of scarcity. Big industries can be losers; small farmers winners.
The threat of such a move reflects the political impact of the droughts that are becoming the new normal in the West. ''A call on the river is a call for a shakeout,'' explained Daniel McCool, a University of Utah political scientist and author of ''River Republic: The Fall and Rise of America's Rivers.''
''It's not going to be farmers versus environmentalists or liberals versus conservatives,'' he said. ''It's going to be the people who have water versus the people who don't.'' And, he said, the have-nots will outnumber the haves.
Dudley Jones, the manager for the Carlsbad Irrigation District said that water law and allocation practice have long diverged. ''We have it in the state Constitution: First in time, first in right. But that's not how it's practiced.'' In New Mexico's political pecking order, his alfalfa farmers, despite senior priority rights dating back 100 years, have little clout. The state water authorities, he said, ''are not going to cut out the city.''
''They're not going to cut out the dairy industry,'' he added. ''They're not going to cut off the oil and gas industry, because that's economic development. So we're left with a dilemma -- the New Mexico water dilemma.''
A priority call, said Dr. McCool, ''will glaringly demonstrate how unfair, how anachronistic the whole water law edifice is.''
He added, ''The all-or-nothing dynamic of prior appropriation instantly sets up conflict. I get all of mine, and you get nothing.''
Despite the support Mr. Walterscheid got from two of the Carlsbad Irrigation District's five members, however, the March 12 meeting produced not a priority call, but an ultimatum: The Legislature should give Carlsbad $2.5 million to tide it over, or the water district will make the call and start a traumatic legal and scientific battle.
The prior appropriation system on the Pecos has its beginnings in the late 19th century. Its waters flow about 925 miles from the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in northern New Mexico, ending up in the Rio Grande in Texas. It has been a focus of conflict. Texas, saying upstream users were taking its share, won a 1987 Supreme Court ruling guaranteeing deliveries under the Pecos River Compact.
After the ruling, which was signed by the feuding water districts, Roswell took steps to conserve water, including putting meters on wells, limiting withdrawals, allowing five-year averaging of water use and buying out some farmers. At the Pecos Valley Artesian Conservancy District in Roswell, officials take pride in this foresight and maintain that they are not cheating Carlsbad.
''If we turned off every one of our pumps today, they wouldn't see any more water,'' said Aron Balok, the district's manager. Nonetheless, the bounty of the Roswell-Artesia aquifer, which has produced a robust economy, including abundant dairies, an oil refinery and the West's biggest mozzarella plant, gives rise to ''just plain jealousy'' in Carlsbad, he said.
''If the priority call were executed today,'' Mr. Balok said, ''the refinery would shut down. The cheese plant would shut down. The dairies would shut down. To what end? It wouldn't make water appear.'' The agreement made to settle the dispute with Texas was supposed to stop such brinkmanship. But, he said, ''Nobody ever foresaw it being this dry for this long.''
How dry is it? In 2012, parts of the riverbed were dry for 77 days, said Mike Hamman, the area manager for the federal Bureau of Reclamation in Albuquerque. In 2011, with the drought sending feed prices up, the Clovis Livestock auction house, the region's biggest, sold 144,000 head of cattle, 20 percent above average. ''Some herds have sold out,'' said the president, Charlie Rogers. Most ranchers have reduced their herds to 25 percent of their previous size, he said. Hay, he said, costs too much.
Higher prices, however, did not offset the losses that hay farmers like Mark Weems and Billy Grandi in Carlsbad suffered when they could not water their fields. Mr. Weems said he had to sell 22 acres to make payments on his farm and equipment. The buyer: an oil-related company that wanted the water rights.
As for Brantley Lake, the nearest reservoir, ''Two months ago it looked like you could drive a four-wheeler across it,'' Mr. Weems said. Mr. Grandi added, ''If the drought continues, a lot of farmers will just have to sell out.''
Mr. Hamman understands that fear. ''If indeed we are moving into a new climate regime that is going to limit the ability to continue the status quo,'' he said ''we may have to do something different -- reallocate the system, or make adjustments to existing settlements.''
The climate and the economy on which existing compacts were based may have fundamentally changed. In the West, ''the 1 percent of the economy that is farming takes close to 80 percent of the water,'' Dr. McCool said. The Pecos feud, he said, is a prelude to wars on rivers like the Colorado, which provides water to more than 20 million people. A recent federal study showed that the Colorado will not have enough water to satisfy existing claims.
In a shakeout, farmers cannot prevail, Dr. McCool argued. ''Let's see, we could dry up some hay farms or we could dry up Las Vegas. Which one is it going to be? It's going to be the new economy of the West with the focus on recreation and tourism and hunting.''
''There will be farming ghost towns,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Livestock, top, along the dry Pecos River near Carlsbad, N.M. The Carlsbad Irrigation District, at a meeting this month, discussed a ''priority call'' to change water distribution. An irrigation sprinkler, above, in Roswell, where water is a little more plentiful. (A11)
 Bill Berry at the edge of the Pecos River, near Carlsbad, N.M., this month. He tends Brantley Dam, which feeds the river. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN PIERRE AGUIRRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); AGRICULTURE (73%); HAY FARMING (73%); IRRIGATION (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



878 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: In a Ruling, The Legacy Of Betamax

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Before Napster and LimeWire, before Megauploads and the Pirate Bay, media companies' epic struggle against copying, piracy and generally losing control over their creations can be traced to a legal fight more than 30 years ago over a device that has long since passed on to the great trash heap in the sky: the Sony Betamax.
When the Betamax videocassette recorder hit American living rooms in 1976, consumers, for the first time, could tape their favorite TV shows and watch them later. Hollywood hated it.
''The VCR is to the American film producer and the American public as the Boston strangler is to the woman home alone,'' Jack Valenti, the garrulous head of the Motion Picture Association of America, told Congress. 
The Supreme Court almost bought the argument that because it was illegal to copy shows without the copyright holder's consent, the Betamax must be an accessory to crime. At the last minute, however, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor changed her mind. In a 5-to-4 ruling in 1984, the technology survived.
Foiling another attempt by studios to control the emerging videocassette market, Congress refused to forbid the renting or reselling videotapes of movies for profit. Blockbuster, Netflix and Redbox would be protected by copyright law's doctrine of ''first sale.'' If they had bought it, they owned it.
The decisions had enormous implications for the media economy. The VCR gave way to the DVD player and the digital video recorder. Videotape gave the kiss of life to the low-budget independent film. From ''Rip. Mix. Burn.'' to YouTube, every step of the evolution of digital media has been affected by that decision.
Last week, the Supreme Court made another call that could have equally far-reaching implications. The ruling referred only to printed books, another technology that predates the Internet. Yet it, too, is likely to reshape the information economy in unexpected ways.
In a 6-to-3 decision, the court took sides with Supap Kirtsaeng, a Thai math student at Cornell who generated roughly $900,000 in revenue reselling in the United States cheap textbooks that his friends and relatives sent from Thailand.
John Wiley & Sons had argued that Mr. Kirtsaeng was infringing on its copyright by importing the books without permission. The publisher said this short-circuited its ability to segment markets by price -- selling the books more expensively to American students than to poorer Thai students who could otherwise not afford them.
But the court held that the publisher's right to ban imports was trumped by Mr. Kirtsaeng's right of first sale. He might not be allowed to make unauthorized copies of the books. But as with old library books or secondhand Gucci bags at a flea market, if the books had been bought legally, whether imported or sold originally in the United States, Mr. Kirtsaeng could sell them.
The decision picks at the scab of an argument that has raged since the first copyright law was enacted in 18th-century Britain: how to balance the interest of copyright holders to profit from their creations -- giving them an incentive to create more -- against the social goal of promoting access to the movies, books and software programs they create.
Like the Betamax decision in 1984, the Supreme Court's ruling last week underscores the challenges placed by globalization and information technology on the very idea of protecting intellectual property. It adds to a maze of laws, legal decisions and technological barriers governing what companies and people can do with their stuff in the new economy. And it will probably change the way companies deliver media.
Is the decision good or bad?
Probably both. It depends who you are.
''The decision is a major victory for American consumers because it allows them to shop worldwide for their copyrighted content,'' wrote Gary Shapiro, the chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association. ''If the reasoning extended to pharmaceuticals, for example, Americans would no longer be the chumps who pay the highest prices in the world simply because they're not allowed to shop overseas where prices are lower.''
Others were not so elated. ''Software authors will have little incentive to price their programs for foreign markets if they can simply be resold in the United States, and thereby undercut the price of the domestic version,'' said the Business Software Alliance in a brief to the court. ''Foreign consumers will be deprived of a product that would be useful to them and authors will have fewer resources to innovate for both domestic and foreign markets.''
Besides cheap textbooks on Craigslist and e-Bay, the decision will probably bring a bunch of imports to the aisles of Target and Costco, said Keith Kupferschmid, vice president for intellectual property policy and enforcement at the Software and Information Industry Association.
More than two years ago, after Justice Elena Kagan's recusal, the court deadlocked on whether Costco could claim a first-sale right to resell imported Omega watches against Omega's will. Now we know it can go ahead.
Publishers may abandon segmentation and start selling at the same price everywhere. Or they may find other ways to segment markets -- perhaps printing foreign books on cheaper paper.
More profoundly, the decision might even hasten the near-demise of print -- spurring publishers into a digital world where they can license their books rather than sell them, adding some bells and whistles while gaining some protection from the first-sale clause.
The decision does not automatically let entrepreneurial Americans import any cheap stuff they find overseas for resale at home. Drugs, for instance, are protected by patents rather than copyright. Re-importation is also barred by other regulations. Yet if the Betamax decision serves as precedent, the repercussions are likely to extend beyond the publishing industry.
Studios use software locks to ensure that a DVD sold in one market won't play on another's machine. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act forbids tampering with the locks, in the name of combating piracy. Yet this could be challenged as a violation of the doctrine of first sale.
Items that are provided under license -- a list that includes songs on iTunes, e-books for the Kindle and most software packages -- could also be vulnerable to the new reasoning as the concept of a license is tested in courts.
In the summer, a German court ruled that first sale did apply to licensed Oracle software. In its brief, the Business Software Alliance said that the argument that software licenses were shielded from first-sale rights ''does not provide any meaningful comfort.''
And while digital products today are supposedly not covered by the first-sale provision, a Web site called ReDigi already runs a secondhand market for digital content. Capitol Records has sued ReDigi, a Massachusetts start-up, in a New York court. A decision is pending, but the judge refused to grant an injunction that would have closed down the site. Amazon has gotten a patent for a secondhand digital marketplace. And Apple applied for one earlier this year.
Some potential changes are worrisome. If publishers drop market segmentation by price, revenue will decline and books may become unaffordable in many countries, reducing legal access and encouraging piracy.
''The first potential losers are the students and educators around the world who lose access to American educational materials,'' said Tom Allen, head of the Association of American Publishers.
The appearance of secondhand markets for digital goods may encourage creators to create digital products that degrade over time. Technological locks may keep some services out of some markets entirely.
But on the bright side, resales of digital products could expand access to the digital economy for lower-income Americans. And the move toward licensing over sales will lead to more innovative, customized digital products and services that are not easily pirated or resold.
The publishing, media and software companies that are now in so much of a tizzy over the Supreme Court's decision may even find a way to profit from the new world. Despite Mr. Valenti's fears, by 2000, half of Hollywood's revenue came from the sale and rental of prerecorded videos and DVDs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandra Day O'Connor was a deciding vote in a 1984 Supreme Court decision that permitted people to tape television shows. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES)
 Jack Valenti, a film industry leader, said VCRs were a threat to big movie studios. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MORA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE PIRACY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); CD & DVD DRIVES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); CRIMINAL ACCESSORIES (53%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); JWB (NYSE) (52%); JWA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



879 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Quinn Is Said To Be in Talks Over Sick Time

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Her stance on the issue has been loudly booed at public forums, picked over in newspaper editorials and derided at weekly news conferences by a leading rival in the race for mayor.
Now, after three years of firm resistance, Speaker Christine C. Quinn of the City Council is changing course, entering serious negotiations on a bill requiring businesses to provide compensated sick days for employees, according to those involved.
The talks, which represent a major breakthrough for advocates of the legislation, follow weeks of intense and sustained pressure from liberal groups and Ms. Quinn's competitors in the campaign, who have excoriated her for opposing the measure. 
The discussions on the bill are moving rapidly, but remain precarious. Both sides cautioned that they could end without a deal.
''My understanding is there's a real effort to find a workable compromise this week,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, a Quinn ally and head of the New York City Partnership, a business group that has objected to the mandate.
As speaker, Ms. Quinn has exercised her power to block a vote on the legislation, despite widespread support for it in the Council.
Ms. Quinn, a former housing activist who has strengthened her ties to business in her rise to the speaker's office, has argued that the economy is too fragile to impose any new costs on small businesses.
Supporters say that legally required time off for those who are ill is a basic right, without which workers must choose between their health and their paychecks -- and that they could sicken strangers by choosing the latter.
At issue in the negotiations are the size of the companies that would be affected, the mechanism by which it would be enforced and when the mandate would take effect.
The bill under consideration by the Council, which Ms. Quinn opposes, calls for all companies with five or more employees to offer paid sick leave. In the talks, her office has pushed for a higher number, around 20 to 30 workers, according to the people told of the discussions. Those people spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the confidentiality of the negotiations. Ms. Quinn's office declined to comment on the state of the negotiations.
There appears to be a split among advocates over what would constitute an acceptable deal. As talks intensified on Tuesday, a major union representing health care workers, 1199, and one of Ms. Quinn's leading opponents in the Democratic primary for mayor, Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, suggested that a compromise bill along the lines of what Ms. Quinn apparently wanted would exclude too many New Yorkers.
Mr. de Blasio said that a cutoff of 20 employees would leave about 384,000 city residents without legally mandated paid sick time.
''The only thing that is worse for these New Yorkers than waiting for a bill is waiting three years for a watered down bill that will leave out huge numbers of New Yorkers,'' he said.
The details of laws on paid sick leave, which have galvanized liberal groups across the country, vary. In Philadelphia and in Portland, Ore., which have passed similar bills recently, the requirements would affect businesses with at least six workers. But a less stringent Connecticut law applies only to employers with 50 or more workers.
Ms. Wylde warned that a five-employee threshold could be ''extraordinarily damaging'' to the city's economy.
''A five-employee business,'' she said, ''is simply not of a size to afford any extra costs.''
The bill's fate has taken on an outsize role in the Democratic primary. All four of Ms. Quinn's opponents have called for her to allow a vote, at times confronting her at candidate forums to make her position appear out of the party's mainstream.
But it has put her in line with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has pledged to veto the bill as proposed.
Ms. Quinn's decision to enter negotiations was prompted by a few factors, including a new openness among advocates for negotiation and the prominent role in the talks of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, a private sector labor group that has found ways to work with her in the past.
At the same time, Ms. Quinn and her team were unsettled by a plan, hatched by council members, to circumvent her by forcing a floor vote on the bill, a maneuver never tried during her tenure.
Such a move, if successful, could undermine Ms. Quinn's authority as speaker and create an awkward moment for her with the approval of a cherished liberal cause over her objections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



880 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: State Tells Investors That Climate Change May Hurt Its Finances

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has started to caution investors that climate change poses a long-term risk to the state's finances.
The warning, which is now appearing in the state's bond offerings, comes as Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, continues to urge that public officials come to grips with the frequency of extreme weather and to declare that climate change is a reality.
A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo said he believed New York was the first state to caution investors about climate change. The caution, which cites Hurricane Sandy and Tropical Storms Irene and Lee, is included alongside warnings about other risks like potential cuts in federal spending, unresolved labor negotiations and litigation against the state. 
''The state determined that observed effects of climate change, such as rising sea levels, and potential effects of climate change, such as the frequency and intensity of storms, presented economic and financial risks to the state,'' the spokesman, Richard Azzopardi, said on Tuesday.
Mr. Azzopardi added, ''The extreme weather events of the last two years highlighted real and potential costs from extreme weather events, including the need to harden the state's infrastructure and improve disaster preparedness, both of which have been a priority of the governor.''
Last fall, Mr. Cuomo was quick to draw a connection between climate change and the severity of Hurricane Sandy, complaining that he seemed to spend much of his time as governor responding to extreme weather events. He has frequently spoken about climate change since then, saying in his State of the State address in January that New York needed ''to learn to accept the fact -- and I believe it is a fact -- that climate change is real.''
''There is a 100-year flood every two years now,'' Mr. Cuomo said at the time. ''It's inarguable that the sea is warmer and that there is a changing weather pattern, and the time to act is now.''
Experts in public finance said they had not heard of any other state that included an explicit warning about climate change in bond offerings.
But David Hitchcock, a senior director in the public finance practice at Standard & Poor's, said climate change was not a criterion in evaluating state finances. ''I have a hard time finding a direct relationship for climate change on New York State's economy at this point,'' he said, adding, ''It's not something that's really on our radar screen right now.''
Emily Raimes, a vice president at Moody's Investors Service, said ''more disclosure is always a good thing.'' But she added that most of the risk for local and state governments from powerful storms was mitigated by the presence of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which provides disaster aid to assist states and local governments.
''One of the reasons they can get to ratings as high as they do, particularly in storm-prone areas, is because of the existence of FEMA,'' Ms. Raimes said. ''After Hurricane Sandy, after big natural disaster events, FEMA picks up most of the cost of the immediate cleanup and rebuilding of public infrastructure.''
She noted that Moody's had downgraded only a small number of local governments that were in areas hit hard by Hurricane Sandy, and that those governments had financial problems even before the storm hit.
The warning about climate change first appeared in the fine print of Mr. Cuomo's budget proposal in January, and was reported on Tuesday by Bloomberg News. It notes that recent storms ''have demonstrated vulnerabilities in the state's infrastructure, including mass transit systems, power transmission and distribution systems, and other critical lifelines.''
The warning adds, ''Significant long-term planning and investment by the federal government, state and municipalities will be needed to adapt existing infrastructure to the risks posed by climate change.''
Mr. Cuomo is taking a number of steps to prepare the state for storms; for example, his administration is developing a program to offer home buyouts to residents in flood-prone areas in a bid to begin reshaping how New York develops its coastline. The state budget that lawmakers are expected to approve this week also includes a provision requiring some gas stations to be wired to accept generators that could be used in the event of a power failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); HURRICANE SANDY (91%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (54%); LITIGATION (54%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



881 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: An Investor Adjusts His Ambitions

BYLINE: By PETER SLATIN

 BODY:
For many observers of the arcane world of commercial real estate investment, Scott Lawlor became a tarnished emblem for the aggressive investors who poured other people's money into major office buildings at the height of the market, driving values into the stratosphere until the bubble burst.
Mr. Lawlor -- who famously acquired the John Hancock Tower in Boston in 2006 and whose lenders then sold it at a substantial loss three years later -- had his funds lose more than two-thirds of their value during the recession. Now with the real estate boom far behind him, he has quietly returned to commercial real estate investing, but instead of going after trophy buildings in big cities, he is buying up garden apartment complexes in much smaller towns.
More than $3.5 billion in property deals that involved Mr. Lawlor's private equity fund, Broadway Real Estate Partners, had financing trouble during the downturn, but all those deals have since been restructured or otherwise resolved, with billions lost in the process.
While Mr. Lawlor is not proud of that record, he isn't hiding from it either. But he appears to have given his investment approach an extreme makeover. Instead of prominent buildings in places like New York and Boston, he is buying residential complexes in secondary and tertiary markets like Greenville, S.C. and Maryville, Tenn. 
Instead of raising a huge fund from institutions with the discretion to invest as he chooses, he now raises capital deal by individual deal from an array of deep-pocketed private investors. He has also given up on borrowing heavily and using short-term floating-rate debt to pay for at least 80 percent of a building's cost -- a strategy that got Broadway and an army of other real estate investors into trouble a few years ago.
Mr. Lawlor says he now obtains long-term, fixed-rate financing for just 60 percent of an asset's total cost, including renovations.
Looking back at his former approach, he said, ''I'm never going to be in that situation again. What we are doing now is very different.'' His new strategy, he said, is long-term and conservative. ''It's not sexy, and there's no loss of sleep and very little risk.''
His basic strategy: finding relatively small deals -- around $20 million -- in markets that larger investors are passing up, and instead of seeking spectacular returns for his backers, he aims to get them steady, reliable income over a seven- to 10-year period.
Mr. Lawlor has certainly chosen his markets well. According to the Real Capital Analytics Commercial Property Price Index, apartment prices in the Southeast have been rising more slowly than in the country as a whole, and are still nearly 25 percent below average prices at the market peak; that's well off the national average for apartments of just 8 percent below peak levels.
Ronald Johnsey, the president of apartment research firm Axiometrics, said that the strategy that Mr. Lawlor's new investment vehicle, Waypoint Residential Management, has adopted was a good one. ''They are going into submarkets that appear to have been overlooked in terms of new supply,'' he said.
Owners have deferred improvements to their second-tier properties in places like Greenville, S.C., as they struggled -- and often failed -- to hold on to ownership. So rents have not budged, while they have risen for top-quality buildings, said Tony Bonitati, director of the multifamily division of NAI Earle Furman in Greenville, a commercial real estate services firm.
In the last quarter of 2012, according to Axiometrics, average class B rents in Greenville averaged 65 percent behind class A rents, up from a historical spread of 48 percent. A similar spread is evident in other Waypoint markets like Orlando.
These investments may look simple on the surface, but Mr. Lawlor still has an appetite for what he calls ''hairy'' situations -- deals that require some effort beyond a simple buy-and-hold strategy if the full value of the investment is to be realized.
''From time to time,'' he said, Waypoint will invest in ''special situations that are bigger and more complicated.'' In the deal that represents Waypoint's largest buyout effort to date, the company acquired a 49 percent stake in a pool of four distressed apartment properties, with more than 1,100 units, across the Southeast. Although the noncontrolling stake means Waypoint still has a lot of work to do to gain ownership of what Mr. Lawlor calls ''an extraordinary investment opportunity,'' he said the deal ''gets us in the door.''
Also last year, Waypoint, which is based in Greenwich, Conn., bought 198 units in a failed condo project in Orlando for $25.1 million -- half the price paid by the previous investor who undertook a condo conversion, but was foreclosed on before completion.
That buyer sold 10 percent of the units as condos before losing the property, so Waypoint now owns 90 percent of the remaining units. These are fully rented and producing income, according to a market source familiar with the deal who was not authorized to speak about it, but real success will come for Waypoint if it can gain control of the condo association and eventually unite the property under one owner.
In complicated transactions like these, where his investors will receive income while Waypoint pursues greater control, Mr. Lawlor believes the returns outweigh the uncertainty of when, or whether, he can unlock the properties' full value.
Since 2011, Waypoint has acquired at least 2,412 apartments in 10 properties and has developed or is building 518 units in two projects. Mr. Lawlor placed the value of these assets at around $300 million, although Waypoint has invested far less than that by engaging in various partnerships, buying distressed properties and avoiding competitive auctions.
To strengthen its operations, Waypoint last year acquired a multifamily property management company in Florida. The company already had some 7,000 units under management before adding Waypoint's acquisitions.
Another point of departure for Mr. Lawlor is where he is finding his capital. Instead of institutions like pension funds and insurance companies, his investors are wealthy people looking for long-term income at rates higher than Treasury yields. ''There's an opportunity to fill a void in the real estate capital markets,'' he said, pointing not to investors who want to invest $1 million or $2 million, but those who might want to put $20 million or $30 million into real estate. ''That market is underserved,'' he said.
Albert Zdenek, president and chief executive of Traust Sollus Wealth Management in Manhattan, said his clients appreciated both the yield and the transparency offered by vehicles like Waypoint, although he disputes that his clients are ''underserved'' in real estate choices. Still, his clients, he said, appreciate ''having an asset class with steady returns,'' especially if they can ''buy in at the bottom.'' In addition, he said the opportunity to examine individual property deals beforehand is attractive.
Last but not least, attractive financing from the government-sponsored agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also helps Mr. Lawlor's efforts.
Brian Sykes, senior vice president at Beech Street Capital in Bethesda, Md., says there exists ''one of the largest differentials between interest rates and cap rates'' -- or return on investment -- '' in history.''
All these factors support Waypoint's bread-and-butter investment thesis and, Mr. Lawlor thinks, its growth potential. Always a driven real estate investor, his mind is on expansion. With offices already in Greenwich, Atlanta and South Florida, he said Waypoint was poised to add a Dallas office charged with exploring adjacent states for investment opportunities. From there, he believes, states like Colorado and Arizona are a logical step.
But regardless of how active Waypoint becomes, Mr. Lawlor said he would not give in to the temptation to pile on liability. ''The last person you're going to hear about piling on aggressive debt is me,'' he said. ''You don't have to risk getting your clock cleaned to still make a terrific deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Lawlor is back investing in commercial real estate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



882 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LOPPERSUM JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Parts of Low Country Are Now Quake Country

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

 BODY:
LOPPERSUM, the Netherlands -- Jannes Kadyk's modest brick home suffered more than $5,000 in damage. Bert de Jong's more stately home will need about $500,000 to get back into shape.
Both houses, like thousands of others, were damaged during recent earthquakes that have shaken the flat farmland in this area dotted with villages and tucked up against the North Sea.
The quakes were caused by the extraction of natural gas from the soil deep below. The gas was discovered in the 1950s, and extraction began in the 1960s, but only in recent years have the quakes become more frequent, about 18 in the first six weeks of this year, compared with as few as 20 each year before 2011.
Chiel Seinen, a spokesman for the gas consortium known as NAM, said there were at least 1,800 natural faults in the region's subsoil. 
''These faults are seen as a mechanism to induce earthquakes,'' he said.
The findings in the Netherlands parallel the anxiety about hydraulic fracturing technology in the United States, where several states have halted drilling temporarily, though more commonly out of fear that chemicals used in the process may pollute water sources.
This month, the New York State Assembly voted to block so-called fracking, the process in which water is blasted through rock at high pressure to extract gas, until 2015, requiring further study on its environmental impact.
This is not Haiti. The worst tremor, last August, had a magnitude of 3.4, hardly enough to cause widespread devastation. Yet the number of claims for damaged property is already in the thousands, and the company extracting the gas, a consortium of Shell and Exxon Mobil, has set aside $130 million for measures to strengthen buildings against the shocks. Yet most troubling is that experts at government agencies are predicting that the quakes will worsen, to between a magnitude of 4 and 5.
Is the big one yet to come? Mr. Kadyk, 62, a retired city employee, pointed to cracks around doors and windows in his two-story brick home. He said he was ''not an expert, so I cannot say yes or no, but the real experts say if we don't stop extracting gas, the country risks further earthquakes.''
Yvonne Doesburg, who runs a small restaurant and hotel called De Oude Smidse near Mr. Kadyk's home, recalled the August quake, which had its epicenter in Loppersum. ''The house shook enormously; it was scary,'' she said. Asked whether people expected worse, she replied, ''The fear is there.''
Ms. Doesburg's husband, Jorg Zart, believes the drilling should go on nonetheless. ''It brings jobs,'' he said, ''and traditionally, this was one of the poorest regions of Holland.''
His wife dissents. ''The money is made here, but spent elsewhere,'' she said.
Public sentiment sides with Ms. Doesburg. Membership in a grass-roots organization called the Groningen Soil Movement, for the province of Groningen, where Loppersum lies, has jumped to 800 people from 200 in the past two years. In a survey of 686 residents published this month, almost two-thirds said they wanted the amount of gas extracted to be cut; 16 percent wanted it stopped altogether.
''We believe safety is not the top priority,'' said Daniella Blanken, a computer programmer and a Soil Movement board member.
The national government in The Hague insists it is. The northern region is particularly vulnerable because much of it lies below sea level, protected from North Sea waters by huge dikes. If earthquakes threatened the dikes or the intricate system of canals and locks that lace the land, the loss of life could be catastrophic.
Albert Rodenboog, 60, the mayor of Loppersum for the past decade, compares the government to an acrobat doing a split: While The Hague has safety in mind, he explains, it is also bound by contractual obligations and serious financial considerations.
''We have to reckon in the future with heavier quakes, with heavier damage,'' the mayor said. ''But there are domestic delivery contracts, export contracts.''
The region supplies natural gas to Germany, Belgium and France, and government profits on the sale of gas amount to more than $15 billion annually, Mr. Rodenboog said, money the government can hardly do without at a time of weak economic growth and reduced revenues.
In January, Henk Kamp, the minister for economic affairs, laid out the options to Parliament in a four-page report. Studies by Shell and Exxon Mobil, as well as by government agencies like the state mining regulator, showed that prior assumptions about the size of possible earthquakes were wrong. ''Tremors greater than 3.9 are possible,'' he wrote. The mining agency in particular, he said, advised him to urge Exxon Mobil and Shell to ''reduce gas extraction in the Groningen field as quickly and as much as is feasibly possible.''
Yet the minister said he would not make a final decision before the end of this year.
Developments in the region are watched closely even beyond the Dutch borders because of the debate in Europe about the safety of fracking.
Mr. Seinen, the gas consortium spokesman, said that although fracking was used in the Netherlands, it was not used in Groningen Province, because of the excellent porosity of the rock there. ''It is the most conventional gas-winning process,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''Drill a hole and the gas flows automatically.''
Mayor Rodenboog says he recognizes people's fears. ''There is more than the material loss,'' he said. ''People are mentally stressed by anxiousness about what is coming in the next years.'' Yet he said he trusted the government to take the time before making a decision.
Mr. de Jong, 60, a civil engineer by training who now heads the local school board, disagreed. The risk of greater tremors, he said, ''affects the whole region. Banks don't want to invest anymore, and you cannot sell a house here.''
Ms. Blanken of the Soil Movement described profits for the region from the sale of gas as minuscule. ''About one-half of 1 percent of the gas income flows back,'' she said.
Mr. de Jong's farmhouse was built in 1894, when farming brought considerable wealth to the area. Elegant Art Nouveau ceilings with carved-wood flowers were installed before 1920, he said. Yet after quakes last August and in February, the ceilings are cracked, and the one in the dining room threatens to fall. The brick walls of the house now bulge by about four inches and will require buttressing, as will two brick chimneys that are in danger of collapse. A balcony that runs along the facade, supported by slender cast-iron columns, must be replaced.
''We are not sure what these lighter tremors are doing,'' he said, sipping tea in his living room. ''Maybe they are destroying the buildings piece by piece.''
''Yet if people are killed in the area, what then?'' he asked.
''We feel taken hostage,'' he said. ''A hostage in your own home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bert de Jong says the walls of his Loppersum house now bulge and will require buttressing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERMAN WOUTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (91%); HAITI (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013



883 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: BMW Thinks Small With a 3-Cylinder Engine

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: BMW has ambitions for the power plant; plug-in hybrid applications are only one approach. 

 BODY:
The hatchback looked like a production Euro-spec 1 Series BMW. On the roads around company headquarters in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., it drove like one, too. But the car is a work in progress, a prototype powered by BMW's new 1.5-liter 3-cylinder gasoline engine, which next year will go into the i8 plug-in hybrid. 
On a quick but vivid drive, performance was strikingly similar to that of a comparable BMW 4 cylinder, in part because of a balance shaft that smooths the vibration inherent to this new layout. There was minor turbo lag, and acceleration was a bit leisurely in the middle range of the power band, but the car (3,052 pounds as tested) still shot off the line.
What's the benefit of a 3-cylinder engine? Fuel economy gains and emissions reductions are two advantages. Turbocharging and direct injection improve performance, and fuel economy could improve 5 percent to 15 percent and emissions drop by the same amount, the company said.
BMW has ambitions for the 3 cylinder - plug-in hybrid applications are only one approach. BMW said the engine could someday power its 1 Series and other cars and a diesel version was coming. "It helps us with both European and American fuel economy and emissions regulations," said Heidelinde Holzer, a BMW powertrain engineer. She said that the engine would initially be built only in Germany, but that production in China was possible. 
The car in New Jersey produced 177 horsepower, but in the i8 the 3 cylinder will offer around 220, said Manfred Poschenrieder, a BMW spokesman. "We use a bit more of the turbocharger in the i8, so we don't run into low-end torque problems in the plug-in hybrid," he said. The i8, which also has an electric motor, will offer comparable acceleration to the M3, Ms. Holzer said. BMW offered no fuel economy figures for its new engine.
Also in New Jersey was the 328d diesel sedan, which has more torque but virtually the same horsepower as the 3-cylinder 1 Series. The 328d will achieve fuel economy in the mid-40s on the highway, said Thomas Plucinsky, a BMW spokesman.
The 328d will make its United States debut at the New York International Auto Show this week.

        
Wheelies: The Grand European Tour Edition
        
Designer of Gran Coupe Brings Flow to BMW 6 Series
        
BMW Brings Geneva Pony Show to Javits
        
With Atlantic, Fisker Seeks Out Calmer Seas
        
BMW Brings X-Factor to Bottom of Product Line

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (86%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); SEDANS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%) automobiles; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Engines; New York International Auto Show; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



884 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 27

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: An online dispute snarls web traffic; the U.S. Supreme Court takes on same-sex marriage; the BRICS group of nations plans to form its own development bank; and more graduate-level management courses teach sustainability. 

 BODY:
 NEWS A squabble between a group fighting spam and a Dutch company that hosts Web sites that are said to be sending spam has escalated into one of the largest computer attacks on the Internet, causing widespread congestion and jamming crucial infrastructure around the world. John Markoff and Nicole Perlroth report. 
As the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday weighed the momentous question of whether gay and lesbian couples have a constitutional right to marry, six justices questioned whether the case, arising from a California ban on same-sex marriages, was properly before the court and indicated that they might vote to dismiss it. Adam Liptak reports from Washington.
Italy's highest court on Tuesday ordered a new trial in the sensational case of Amanda Knox, an American student accused of murdering her 21-year-old roommate, Meredith Kercher of Britain, in 2007. Elisabetta Povoledo reports from Rome.
With time running out until Cyprus's devastated banks must reopen their doors to the public, Cypriot and European officials are scrambling to put in place a set of measures that would allow jittery depositors access to their savings while preventing many billions of euros from fleeing the country. Landon Thomas Jr. reports from Nicosia.
A group of five emerging world economic powers met in Africa for the first time Tuesday, gathering in South Africa for a summit meeting at which they plan to announce the creation of a new development bank, a direct challenge to the dominance of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Lydia Polgreen reports from Johannesburg.
European Union antitrust regulators have expanded their investigation into whether a small network of big banks unfairly controls the derivatives market. James Kanter reports from Brussels.
 EDUCATION A growing number of graduate-level management courses are teaching sustainability, in and out of the classroom. Christopher F. Schuetze reports from The Hague.
With finance based on the principles of the Koran booming, its growth has pushed more educational institutions into creating degree programs in the field. Kristiano Ang reports from Kuala Lumpur.
 ARTS The Berlin Philharmonic, which in May 2011 announced that after 45 years its 2012 Easter Festival in Salzburg would be its last, has duly taken up residence in the Festspielhaus of this idyllic spa town that lured it away. In Salzburg, meanwhile, quick action to engage the Dresden Staatskapelle orchestra and its conductor, Christian Thielemann, has allowed its Easter Festival to proceed apace. George Loomis reviews from Baden-Baden, Germany.
 SPORTS In cricket, England hung on to draw with New Zealand in Auckland, ending a three-match series in a 0-0 stalemate. Huw Richards reports.
For all the goals that Michael Owen scored as a professional, his most spectacular came against Argentina at the 1998 World Cup. He was 18. Rob Hughes writes from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BRICS COUNTRIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (71%); EURO (71%); MURDER (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); EASTER SEASON (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%) IHT Rendezvous

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); CYPRUS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ITALY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BELGIUM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); AUSTRIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



885 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: British Banks Told to Raise $38 Billion in Capital

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Bank of England said the new cash reserves were needed to protect against instability in the world&#8217;s financial industry. 

 BODY:
LONDON - British banks must raise a combined £25 billion, or $38 billion, in new capital by the end of the year to protect against future financial shocks, according to a report on Wednesday from the country's authorities.
The Bank of England, which takes over the direct supervision of British firms like HSBC and Barclays next week, said the new reserves were needed to protect against losses connected to risky loan portfolios, future regulatory fines and the readjustment of banks' bloated balance sheets. 
Mervyn A. King, the departing governor of the Bank of England, said on Wednesday that the need to raise new capital "is not an immediate threat to the banking system and the problem is perfectly manageable."
The report follows a five-month inquiry by British officials into the financial strength of the country's banking industry. With the world's largest financial institutions facing new stringent capital requirements, the Bank of England had been concerned that British banks did not have capital reserves large enough to offset instability in the world's financial industry.
Earlier this month, the Federal Reserve also released the results of so-called stress tests of America's largest banks, which indicated that most big banks had sufficient capital to survive a severe recession and major downturn in financial markets. Citigroup and Bank of America, after a disappointing performance the previous year, now appeared to be among the strongest.
British banks were not so lucky.
The reported released on Wednesday said that local banks had overstated their capital reserves by a combined £50 billion, which authorities said would now be adjusted on the firm's balance sheets. Many of the country's banks already have enough money to handle the accounting adjustment, the report said on Wednesday.
The country's regulators also said that British banks must raise a total of £25 billion in new capital by the end of the year, but authorities say they believe roughly half of that amount has already been allocated under the banks' capital-raising plans for 2013. The Bank of England did not name which firms needed to meet the shortfall.
Analysts said on Wednesday that many of the affected firms had enough time to raise new capital by the end of the year, despite the market volatility caused by the banking crisis in Cyprus.
Local regulators have set a deadline for the end of 2013 for banks to increase their reserves to a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of a bank's ability to weather financial crises, of at least 7 percent under the accounting rules known as Basel III.
Regulators urged banks on Wednesday to increase their reserves by raising new equity, selling noncore assets or reorganizing their balance sheets. British policy makers are concerned that firms will cut lending to the country's economy as part of their efforts to increase their capital.
"We need safer banks," said Andrew Tyrie, a British politician who heads a Parliamentary committee on banking standards. "We also need banks that return to normal lending."
As part of increased oversight of British banks, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, a newly created division of the Bank of England that will have daily regulatory control of the country's largest firms, will have a direct say in how banks raise the new capital.
The authority's board is expected to meet over the next couple of weeks to decide which banks will be forced to raise new money. British firms must receive regulatory approval for their capital-raising plans.
Attention is likely to focus on both the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, which both received multibillion-dollar bailouts during the financial crisis. The banks, which are part nationalized, have recently announced the sale of some of their divisions, including the Royal Bank of Scotland's American subsidiary, the Citizens Financial Group, in a bid to raise new money.
"We see R.B.S. as most exposed," Citigroup analysts said in a research note to investors on Wednesday.
Despite the capital increases being in line with many analysts' expectations, most British banking stocks fell in early afternoon trading on Wednesday, with Royal Bank of Scotland's share price tumbling the most, at 3.1 percent.
In a statement, the Royal Bank of Scotland said it had announced plans last month to strengthen its capital position. The Lloyds Banking Group declined to comment.
Others firms are taking a different route. After raising $3 billion in November of so-called contingent capital, or CoCo bonds, which converts to equity if a bank's capital falls below a certain threshold, Barclays is looking to tap investors again through a similar product.
The push to increase reserves for Britain's largest banks is part of an effort to prevent future financial crises. Starting in 2014, the Bank of England plans to conduct regular stress tests of the country's financial institutions to check that they have sufficient capital reserves.
An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly, in one instance, to British regulators' push to increase capital at local banks. The Bank of England wants the banks to raise capital, which generally refers to a mix of stocks and bonds; it is not pushing them "to increase cash reserves."

        
New Era for British Financial Regulators Is About to Begin
        
Bankia Stock Value Is Nearly Wiped Out Under Recapitalization Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (96%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); EURO CRISIS (65%) Bank of England; Banking and Financial Institutions; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); King, Mervyn A; Prudential Regulatory Authority; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of England

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: King, Mervyn A

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



886 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan's Friction With Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase once held special sway in Washington, but that status may be fading. | Steven A. Cohen has not let an insider trading investigation &#8211; or an elbow &#8211; put a stop to his art dealings. | British banks need to raise a combined $38 billion in new capital to protect against future shocks, local authorities said. | The plan to rescue Cyprus is being complicated by a gloomy economic forecast. 

 BODY:
JPMORGAN'S FRICTION WITH WASHINGTON | It was not long ago that JPMorgan Chase and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, held special sway in Washington. But that status may be fading, as the bank "increasingly finds itself in the cross hairs of federal authorities," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook.
The criminal inquiry over the big trading loss last year joins other legal tangles. "In a previously undisclosed case, prosecutors are examining whether JPMorgan failed to fully alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter." In addition, "JPMorgan misstated how the bank may have harmed more than 5,000 homeowners in foreclosure, according to several people briefed on the matter. The bank's primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is expected to collect a cash payment from the bank to remedy the flawed review of loans, these people say."
Those mortgage errors, while relatively minor on their own, highlight the growing friction with regulators. Eight federal agencies are investigating JPMorgan, and federal prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are examining potential wrongdoing. In April, senior JPMorgan executives, including Mr. Dimon, are expected to meet with investigators examining the multibillion-dollar trading loss that was the focus of a recent Senate report, people briefed on the matter said. 
"Jamie and other executives feel terrible that the bank's self-inflicted mistakes have put regulators in an awkward position," said Joe Evangelisti, a JPMorgan spokesman. "We are wholly to blame for our errors and are fully cooperating with all authorities to make things right."
COHEN'S BIG ART DEAL | Steven A. Cohen has not let an insider trading investigation - or an elbow - put a stop to his art dealings. "A renowned art collector, Mr. Cohen has bought Picasso's 'Le Rêve' from the casino owner Stephen A. Wynn for $155 million, according to a person with direct knowledge of the sale who was not authorized to speak publicly," Carol Vogel and Peter Lattman report in DealBook. Mr. Cohen, who has coveted the painting for years, agreed to buy it from Mr. Wynn for $135 million in 2006, but that deal was called off after Mr. Wynn, who has an eye disease, put his elbow through it. An art restorer repaired the canvas and apparently restored the painting's value. The art deal was reported earlier by The New York Post.
Mr. Cohen is effectively $616 million poorer after his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, settled with the government over accusations of insider trading. But he has continued to add to his world-class art collection, which includes works by Jackson Pollock, Monet and Manet. The purchase of "Le Rêve" is at least the second $100 million-plus acquisition of art by Mr. Cohen in the last two years.
BRITISH BANKS' CAPITAL HOLE | British banks need to raise a combined £25 billion ($38 billion) in new capital by the end of the year to protect against future shocks, local authorities said on Wednesday. "The Bank of England, which takes over the direct supervision of British firms like HSBC and Barclays next week, said the new reserves were needed to protect against losses connected to risky loan portfolios, future regulatory fines and the rejiggering of banks' bloated balance sheets," DealBook's Mark Scott writes.
For most American banks, the Federal Reserve's stress tests showed they had sufficient capital to withstand a major downturn. "British banks are not so lucky," Mr. Scott says.
 ON THE AGENDA | Pinnacle Foods, owned by the Blackstone Group, is expected to price its I.P.O. Wednesday evening. Data on pending home sales for February is out at 10 a.m. Robert Benmosche, A.I.G.'s chief executive, is on CNBC at 8 a.m. A bankruptcy judge is set to rule on final approval of the merger of American Airlines and US Airways.
 FORECASTS DARKEN FOR CYPRUS | The plan to rescue Cyprus is being complicated by a gloomy economic forecast. "Instead of the relatively modest decline of 3 percent that is built into the forecast that underpins the country's international bailout package, many economists say that estimate will need to be revised sharply downward given the shock that the island's small economy has endured from the extended closure of its banks," The New York Times's Landon Thomas Jr. writes.
Paul Krugman, the economist and columnist for The New York Times, says, "Cyprus should leave the euro. Now." He continues: "The reason is straightforward: staying in the euro means an incredibly severe depression, which will last for many years while Cyprus tries to build a new export sector. Leaving the euro, and letting the new currency fall sharply, would greatly accelerate that rebuilding."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Credit Suisse to Buy Morgan Stanley's European Wealth Unit | Credit Suisse is buying Morgan Stanley's wealth management arm in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, which has assets under management of $13 billion, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
CBS Agrees to Buy 50% of Former TV Guide Network | CBS is buying a half-interest in TVGN, formerly the TV Guide Network, "fulfilling a longstanding goal of adding a general entertainment basic cable network to the company's media portfolio," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Spain Plans to Reduce Stake in EADS | 
REUTERS
The Dell Deal Scorecard | Need help remembering who's offering what for Dell? Here's a guide to the proposed takeovers that Michael S. Dell and Silver Lake, Blackstone and Carl C. Icahn have each outlined for the computer company.
DealBook »
Controversial Media Deal in Taiwan Nears Collapse | The pro-Beijing businessmen seeking to buy two liberal publications in Taiwan were unlikely to meet a deadline on Wednesday to complete the sale, a spokesman said.
DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
I.C.B.C. Profit Beats Expectations | Industrial and Commercial Bank of China said profit rose 19 percent in the fourth quarter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Amends Warrants Deal With Buffett | The modified agreement essentially makes the billionaire one of the Wall Street firm's biggest investors without having to pay additional money.
DealBook »
Buffett and Goldman Scratch Each Other's Backs | By not tying up cash in Goldman Sachs, Warren E. Buffett can keep it in reserve for another Heinz-like elephantine acquisition target, Antony Currie of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
U.S. Firms Look to Buy Australian Software Maker | A group that includes the private equity firms TA Associates and Updata Partners values its target, the Nintex Group, at $222 million, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
China Pushes for Tighter Restrictions on Private Equity | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
Shareholder Advisory Firm Backs Agrium in Fight With Activist | The fertilizer maker Agrium received support from Glass Lewis, a shareholder advisory firm, in a proxy struggle with the investor Jana Partners, which has a 7.5 percent stake.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Judge Rejects Man's Claim of Facebook Ownership | A judge said the claim by Paul Ceglia that he owns a portion of Facebook was based on a fraudulent contract and should be thrown out, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Yahoo's 'Acqui-Hiring' and Its Tax Implications | Yahoo's acquisition of Summly could have certain tax benefits for its founder, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column.
DealBook »
Morin, C.E.O. of Path, on His Mobile Routine | "I have two iPhones, one for day and one for the night. When the day phone runs out, the night phone takes over. I never have to worry," Dave Morin told Vanity Fair.
VANITY FAIR
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
A New Ring of Suspicious Traders | Bloomberg News reports: "A former Foundry Networks Inc. executive was charged in what prosecutors called a $27 million insider-trading scheme with tipping a California hedge fund analyst about the company's acquisition by Brocade Communications Systems Inc."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Europe Expands Investigation Into Derivatives Market | The inquiry, which has already ensnared Barclays, JPMorgan Chase and Deutsche Bank, has been broadened to include the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade organization for market participants.
DealBook »
DLA Piper Calls E-Mails Cited in Lawsuit an 'Offensive' Attempt at Humor | In the wake of a lawsuit of involving the billing practices of DLA Piper, the law firm issued a memo to its lawyers on Tuesday, calling language in e-mails written by its lawyers "unprofessional" and explaining its position in a case.
DealBook »
In a Faded Wall St. Scandal, Lessons for a Current One | The backdating scandal pales in comparison to the recklessness of the financial crisis, but it does have implications for criminal cases, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column.
Deal Professor »
Force-Placed Insurance Is Scrutinized | Regulators have proposed a new rule to address abuses stemming from force-placed insurance, the practice of a mortgage lender purchasing a property insurance policy for a homeowner.
NEW YORK TIMES
U.S. Seeks Tax Data From Liechtenstein | 
REUTERS
Federal Reserve Faults Citigroup Over Money Laundering Controls | The Federal Reserve took aim at Citigroup and the American branch of its Mexican subsidiary over failure to monitor cash transactions for potentially suspicious activity.
DealBook »
Argentina Denied Request for Full-Court Hearing on Debt | Argentina has lost an effort to have a full federal appeals court rehear a ruling that would prohibit the nation from treating holders of its restructured debt more favorably than other debt holders, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); ART COLLECTING (68%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%); CASINOS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (89%); JAMES DIMON (89%); STEPHEN A WYNN (78%); STEVEN COHEN (66%); BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (84%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



887 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: The Destructive Influence of Imaginary Peers

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: How conveying that good behavior is the social norm can change how people drink, recycle and even pay their taxes. 

 BODY:
We humans irrationally think we're rational. We think that we decide how to behave by weighing the pros and cons. In reality, the strongest influence on our decisions is the example of the people around us - even, oddly enough, when they are imaginary.
Like most universities, Northern Illinois University in DeKalb has a problem with heavy drinking. In the 1980s, the school was trying to cut down on student use of alcohol with the usual strategies. One campaign warned teenagers of the consequences of heavy drinking. "It was the 'don't run with a sharp stick you'll poke your eye out' theory of behavior change," said Michael Haines, who was the coordinator of the school's Health Enhancement Services. When that didn't work, Haines tried combining the scare approach with information on how to be well: "It's O.K. to drink if you don't drink too much - but if you do, bad things will happen to you."
That one failed, too. In 1989, 45 percent of students surveyed said they drank more than five drinks at parties. This percentage was slightly higher than when the campaigns began. And students thought heavy drinking was even more common; they believed that 69 percent of their peers drank that much at parties. 
But by then Haines had something new to try. In 1987 he had attended a conference on alcohol in higher education sponsored by the United States Department of Education. There Wes Perkins, a professor of sociology at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, and Alan Berkowitz, a psychologist in the school's counseling center, presented a paper that they had just published on how student drinking is affected by peers. "There are decades of research on peer influence - that's nothing new," Perkins said at the meeting. What was new was their survey showing that when students were asked how much their peers drank, they grossly overestimated the amount. If the students were responding to peer pressure, the researchers said, it was coming from imaginary peers. 
The "aha!" conclusion Perkins and Berkowitz drew was this: maybe students' drinking behavior could be changed by just telling them the truth.
Haines surveyed students at Northern Illinois University and found that they also had a distorted view of how much their peers drink. He decided to try a new campaign, with the theme "most students drink moderately." The centerpiece of the campaign was a series of ads in the Northern Star, the campus newspaper, with pictures of students and the caption "two thirds of Northern Illinois University students (72%) drink 5 or fewer drinks when they 'party.'" (See here for Haines's thorough description of the campaign and here for lessons from a later, also successful, campaign at Hobart and William Smith Colleges.)
Haines's staff also made posters with campus drinking facts and told students that if they had those posters on the wall when an inspector came around, they would earn $5. (35 percent of the students did have them posted when inspected.) Later they made buttons for students in the fraternity and sorority system - these students drank more heavily - that said "Most of Us," and offered another $5 for being caught wearing one. The buttons were deliberately cryptic, to start a conversation.
After the first year of the social norming campaign, the perception of heavy drinking had fallen from 69 to 61 percent. Actual heavy drinking fell from 45 to 38 percent. The campaign went on for a decade, and at the end of it NIU students believed that 33 percent of their fellow students were episodic heavy drinkers, and only 25 percent really were - a decline in heavy drinking of 44 percent.
NIU was the first large-scale trial of an idea developed in parallel by Perkins and by Robert Cialdini, now a professor emeritus of psychology at Arizona State University and the author of the book "Influence," which is, well, influential.
Bad behavior is usually more visible than good. It's what people talk about, it's what the news media report on, it's what experts focus on. Experts are always trying to change bad behavior by warning of how widespread it is, and they take any opportunity to label it a crisis. "The field loves talking about the problems because it generates political and economic support," said Perkins.
This strategy might feel effective, but it's not - it simply communicates that bad behavior is the social norm. Telling people to go against their peer group never works. A better strategy is the reverse: give people credible evidence that among their peers, good behavior is the social norm.
The best-known application of social norming comes from the company Opower, where Cialdini is chief scientist. If your utility company is a client, then you'll get a gas or electric bill that compares your energy usage with that of your neighbors in similar-size houses. It gives you a smiley face if you are doing well - two if you are in the top 20 percent - and provides tips on how you can save more energy. Opower cuts usage by 2 percent or more, and sustains those cuts.
Social norming is an obvious strategy for reducing drug and alcohol use, but it can be used to curb other behaviors too. Haines now runs a consulting firm that helps schools and communities use social norms to reduce alcohol and tobacco use. Perkins and others have carried out successful applications of social norming against bullying - people are less likely to bully and less likely to be passive bystanders when they know that most students disapprove of the practice and applaud intervention. Berkowitz works with universities, the military, and the United Nations to use social norming to reduce sexual violence and promote intervention by bystanders.
Cialdini has run successful experiments using social norming to reduce littering, increase recycling and protect wood from theft at the Petrified Forest National Park (telling people "please don't remove the wood" and showing a lone thief inside a red circle and slash worked five times better than telling people that many past visitors have removed wood, with a picture of three thieves). The strategy has even helped encourage hotel guests to reuse their hotel towels. It turns out that "most guests re-use their towels" is 26 percent more effective than "please protect the environment by reusing your towels."
Farther afield: Britain changed the dunning letters it sent to tax scofflaws to "9 out of 10 people in Britain pay their tax on time," and collected £5.6 billion (about $8.5 billion) more in overdue revenue in 2009-10 than it had the year before. (The details are in a Harvard Business Review story called "98 Percent of HBR Readers Love This Article.")
It seems that almost anything you would want to nag people about can be more effectively done by instead telling them how much everyone else is doing the right thing. If you want young people to vote, don't tell them how many people aren't voting. Tell them how many are. Safe sex, anyone? Hand washing? School attendance?
Why does this work? How could it possibly affect my behavior to know that other guests in a hotel re-use their towels?
Cialdini says that when we don't know what to do, we look around to see what our peers are doing. From that we learn what is appropriate, and what is practical.
With traditional approaches to behavior change, an outsider comes in, warns you of the dire consequences of your behavior and tells you what to do differently. That often just makes people defensive.
With social norming, you don't tell anybody what to do. You just tell them what people like them are doing. It's a bit like the positive deviance approach I wrote about in February: your focus is on spreading the word about what a community is doing right.
One of the most important keys to making social norming work is salience. "We can only hold one thing in consciousness at a time - and it is that thing that drives behavior," said Cialdini, who is writing his next book about the topic. Success is more likely if the social norming message hits people just when they are about to make that behavioral decision.
Social norming is also most effective when the evidence about the norm is highly credible and accurate. Also, it helps to compare people's behavior to the closest peer group possible. For example, Cialdini's towel study found that people were even more likely to re-use towels when told that most people who had stayed in the same room did so.
But what if the immediate peer group is behaving badly? Social normers have ways around it. If a neighborhood's record on recycling isn't so good, they talk about the city, or the country. Or they use absolute numbers, not percentages: "join the millions of people who are recycling." Or they talk about what people approve of, not what they do - "most Americans endorse recycling."
A trap lurks here. If people know the true social norm, those that are doing worse will improve their behavior. But this works universally only if we live in the anti-Lake Wobegon, where we're all below average. Some people, of course, are above average. Knowing that their peers are slackers might turn them into slackers, too.
This is called the boomerang effect, and it is real. Opower initially found that households that were saving a lot of energy relaxed their efforts once they know how other people were doing. But Opower officials solved the problem by providing rewards for good behavior. Well, a computer did - the "reward" was a smiley face or two on their bill. That small change kept people from backsliding, and the boomerang stopped.
One of the mysteries of social norming is that although it is being used by some people in several fields, it isn't used by a lot of people. Even institutions that used it successfully in the past have abandoned it when the champion left.
Why isn't this idea more widely used? One reason is that it can be controversial. Telling college students "most of you drink moderately" is very different than saying "don't drink." (It's so different, in fact, that the National Social Norms Institute, with headquarters at the University of Virginia, gets its money from Anheuser Busch - a decision that has undercut support for the idea of social norming). The approach angers people who lobby for a strong, unmuddied message of disapproval - even though, of course, disapproval doesn't reduce bad behavior, and social norming does. 
Cialdini thinks that the idea hasn't caught on more widely because it works underneath our conscious radar. "People don't see themselves as easily influenced by those around them," he said. When he asks people what would make them change, they rank "what my peers are doing" dead last. But when he tests what really works, it comes in first. Following the crowd is primal. "You don't have to change the social norm," said Haines. "You just have to show people what it is."
 Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. 
 Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author of, most recently, "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World" and the World War II spy story e-book "D for Deception." 

        
Academic Freedom in Brooklyn: Part Two
        
Academic Freedom Vindicated in Brooklyn
        
Rising Inequality, Even Among College Presidents
        
Higher Education's Future: Discuss!
        
Schools for Soldiers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%) Alcohol Abuse; Colleges and Universities; Northern Illinois University; Opower; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: Northern Illinois University; Opower

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



888 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Indexation Perils

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Many government benefits and policies are based on the consumer price index, and it might be time to examine those relationships and focus more on wages, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
Indexing fiscal policy parameters to consumer price inflation was a nice improvement in the 1970s when both price and wage inflation took off, but the American economy is different now and may require different index approaches.
Economic policy often involves setting benefit amounts or thresholds for program eligibility or for new tax brackets. A few examples are the federal poverty line of $23,550 (for a family of four), the maximum food-stamp benefit of $668 a month and a $113,700 cap on income subject to taxation for Social Security. 
Ideally, policy parameters are chosen to balance costs and benefits. The $110,100 threshold might have been pretty sensible for 2012, but we doubt that a $110,100 threshold would be equally sensible in 2017 or 2022. If nothing else, the existence of inflation means that a dollar will not have the same economic value in the future as it does now.
Costs and benefits could be re-evaluated every year, but it is sometimes easier to set a formula for automatic updating - guessing, in effect, how the optimal policy will change over time. Many fiscal policy parameters are now indexed to consumer price inflation, based on the assumption that they should remain in a fairly fixed ratio to consumer prices.

The income tax code was not always indexed, and the rapid inflation of the 1970s awakened many Americans to "bracket creep," as inflation raised the dollar earnings of the poor and middle class and put them in tax brackets originally meant for higher-income taxpayers, without necessarily giving them any additional purchasing power.
However, many costs and benefits of fiscal policy, especially those related to incomes and jobs, depend on wages rather than consumer prices and arguably fiscal policy parameters should be indexed to wages rather than consumer prices. A few policy parameters are indexed to wages, such as parts of the benefit formulas for Social Security and unemployment insurance, but consumer price indexation is more common.
If wages and consumer prices always moved together, the distinction would be largely academic. But in reality, wages change differently than consumer prices do. There is a tendency for wages to increase more than consumer prices over long periods of time, thanks to labor productivity gains.
Indexing can play a role in political debates, as the parties that believe that a policy parameter is too low might want it indexed to wages rather than consumer prices in order that it increase more over time (for the same reason, they might want it indexed to the average wage rather than the median wage, because average wages have tended to increase more than median wages have). Parties on the other side might push for consumer price indexation, or no indexation at all.
For example, if you think that the poverty line is too high, you are glad that the line is not indexed to wage inflation and might wish that it were not indexed at all, so that more of the population might creep out of the poverty category.
But in these times, we may see political parties switching sides on the indexing question, because a number of forces may cause wages to increase less than consumer prices, if at all.
Rising health insurance costs tend to reduce cash wages or cause them to grow less than consumer prices, as employers cannot compete well when they are paying more in cash wages and more for employee health insurance. I noted in an earlier post that the least-skilled workers are seeing their wagesfall over time, largely because they are out of work and failing to acquire the skills that come with working.
Employers are also facing new health care regulations expected to reduce cash wages as many employers of low-skill workers are hit with per-employee fines of about $3,000 per employee per year. Were a federal sales tax, such as the value-added tax used in many European countries, to be created, consumer prices would increase significantly more than wages do.
While we can be thankful we are not now experiencing the high inflation rates of the 1970s that urgently introduced inflation indexing into fiscal policies, we may want to reconsider policy thresholds and how they relate to the labor market fundamentals.

        
Our Carbon, Our Climate, Our Cash
        
Not Enough Inflation
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
Does Bernanke Have the Best Inflation Record?
        
One Recession Cost Is Lower Social Security Benefits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); WRITERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); FOOD STAMPS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); TAX LAW (70%) Consumer Price Index; Federal Taxes (US); Inflation (Economics); Social Security (US); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



889 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: The Limits of China's Market Model

BYLINE: DAVID BARBOZA


HIGHLIGHT: An interview with James McGregor, whose book &#8220;No Ancient Wisdom, No Followers&#8221; argues that the long-term prospects for China&#8217;s economy are being hurt by state dominance and protectionism. 

 BODY:
In his book "No Ancient Wisdom, No Followers," the author James McGregor delivers a sharp critique of China's recent development path, and what he calls "authoritarian capitalism."
In Mr. McGregor's China, the government plays too large a role in the economy, and big state-owned entities dominate because of government subsidies and preferential treatment. Private entrepreneurs and multinational corporations are at a distinct disadvantage, one that he argues is likely to damage China's prospects in the long run. With China determined to create its own global brands, he says, the government is putting rules and regulations in place that seem increasingly protectionist.
A former reporter for The Wall Street Journal who has spent more than 20 years in China, Mr. McGregor now works as a senior counselor for APCO Worldwide, a global communications consultancy. His book, in paperback and e-book format, was published late last year. He talked about it in an e-mail interview, which has been edited for style. 
 Q. 
 How did you come to write this book? 
 A. 
 My interest in this book was fueled by the 10th anniversary of China's joining the World Trade Organization and seeing China heading in a much different direction than had been anticipated. Instead of pursuing further market reforms and expanding the role of private enterprise, China had turned back to state-owned enterprise and begun strong-arming multinationals to hand over their most advanced technology to their state-owned business partners. I wanted to dig deeper into this situation while stepping back to look at the overall picture of where China had come from and where the country is headed as a political-economic entity. 
 Q. 
 One interesting aspect of your book is the description of how huge, powerful state-owned companies in China benefit from state subsidies, low-interest loans and favorable policies that help them maintain dominance, and yet don't really result in capable, well-managed and innovative companies. Doesn't this mean that China won't be able to compete in the global marketplace over the long run and that multinationals - operating more on their wits - will always be able to beat out the Chinese competitors, in the global marketplace, at least? 
 A. 
 In the long run the United States doesn't need to worry about Chinese state enterprise taking over the world. They are simply too political and inefficient. But as these state-owned enterprises go out into the world fueled by huge subsidies and favorable policies, they will be able to destroy quite a few good companies that are simply efficient businesses. Look at what we've seen with solar and wind companies in the United States and Europe already.
 Q. 
 If the situation is so troubling, why do global brands seem to be scrambling to get into China or expand their presence here? 
 A. 
 It is a different story for different sectors. Technology and advanced industrial companies are having an ever more difficult in China. China's long-term goal is to learn from them, and then replace them with Chinese technology created by absorbing and re-innovating. But many retailers and consumer goods companies are doing well. China needs to expand consumption to reduce dependence on exports and government infrastructure spending for growth. Getting good quality products at reasonable prices to Chinese consumers through efficient retailers helps with the party's economic and social stability goals. When your business is in China's interest, your business can do well.
 Q. 
Apple sold more than $20 billion worth of goods in China during the last year. Starbucks, General Motors, Coca-Cola and General Electric seem to be thriving in China. Is your argument that these are exceptions, or that many of the multinationals would be doing far better were it not for China's restrictive trade and investment policies? 
 A. 
 Manufacturing for export by foreign companies in China is quite open. But penetrating the domestic market is a challenge. If China had more open trade and investment policies, United States exports to China would skyrocket as Chinese people trust the quality of American goods. American manufacturers would quickly expand their operations in China for products to be sold in China. No doubt about that.
 Q. 
 If the Chinese government forces global companies into unfair joint ventures and even allows such vast intellectual-property theft, why do the multinationals put up with that? 
 A. 
 Simple answer: growth. China has been the only significant global growth market since the global financial crisis. The country is spending trillions of dollars on infrastructure, including bullet trains, subway systems, nuclear power plants, airports, seaports, refineries, electric grid - the list goes on and on. If you are in the business of transportation, power generation, aviation, telecommunications, computing or logistics, among others, if you don't make it in China you won't make it anywhere.
 Q. 
 What are some of the solutions? What can United States or global companies do to improve the situation in China, or could the United States government be doing more? 
 A. 
 The answer is to vigorously enforce World Trade Organization rules and hold China to the bilateral agreements it has made. At this point China is winning through intimidation on the trade front. Countries and companies that threaten to file W.T.O. cases are quietly informed that the retribution will be fierce. At the same time, we should welcome Chinese investment in the United States and push for reciprocal treatment. China has the upper hand because of the fiscal irresponsibility of American politicians. The best thing the United States can do to deal with China is get our own house in order.
 Q. 
 Westerners doing business in China are often advised not to engage in public fights with the Chinese authorities; that negotiating quietly, behind closed doors, is the better option. Is that still the case, or is your book suggesting that bolder, more confrontational tactics are necessary? 
 A. 
 Companies that individually and publicly take on China face the wrath of China Inc. But those who band together behind trade associations and government forums stand a better chance. It is always better to try to work out things behind closed doors. But only if China is willing to listen. Today, that is often not the case. The global financial crisis caused a significant shift in thinking by many in the government. For many years, foreign companies that invested in China were looked at as friends who were helping China. There are many in China now who believe that the foreigners need China more than China needs the foreigners. So they often don't feel a need to engage even behind closed doors.

        
Moving China Up the Value Chain
        
Chinese Love Free Markets as Much as Americans Do
        
How Global Companies Take Aim at China
        
The Imbalances in China's Economy
        
Furor Over Report Hints at a Chinese Policy Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTECTIONISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%) Books and Literature; China; Communist Party of China; Economic Conditions and Trends; McGregor, James; Protectionism (Trade); World Trade Organization; Book Chat

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); APCO WORLDWIDE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Communist Party of China; World Trade Organization

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



890 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Fixing the Failed Elevator Pitch: Translating Military Skills for Civilian Employers

BYLINE: JAMES DAO


HIGHLIGHT: A program by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce unveils a resume-building website intended to help young veterans translate their military experiences for civilian employers. 

 BODY:
The failed elevator pitch. Kevin Schmiegel, a retired Marine Corps lieutenant colonel, had heard dozens of them from young veterans trying to sell themselves to prospective employers. Acronyms. Jargon incomprehensible to civilians. Puzzling explanations of military jobs. An inability, or unwillingness, to take credit for awards, specialized training or even leadership positions.
So he decided to do something about it. As executive director of Hiring Our Heroes, a U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation project that connects employers with veterans, Mr. Schmiegel organized a team to create a program that could help veterans translate their military experiences into easy-to-digest résumés. 
The result was the Personal Branding Resume Engine, which Hiring Our Heroes is scheduled to unveil on Wednesday morning at its latest job fair, at the 69th Regiment Armory on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan.
The Web site was developed by iostudio with help from Fortune 500 human resources managers, whose advice on translating descriptions of military work and training into business-friendly, résumé-ready language was crucial.
The goal was to create something that was easy to use, so they modeled the engine on the popular Turbo Tax software, with plenty of pull-down menus to help novice job seekers navigate a thicket of résumé categories, from education to military training to personal skills.
The engine does most of the hard work. Type in a military occupational specialty and the pull-down menu translates it for you. An 88m? A motor transport officer. But that's not all. It then offers a concise explanation of what that job entailed: "Operated wheel vehicles and equipment over varied terrain and roadways. Managed loading and unloading of personnel and equipment being transported."
The key to those translations - and there are hundreds of them in the program, one for every military specialty in all five services - are the action verbs, carefully chosen with the help of the human resources managers to break through to skeptical résumé readers, Mr. Schmiegel said.
Thus, a truck driver would not have simply driven a truck: he or she would have also "managed transport of supplies/equipment and performed planning and execution functions to support movement in Afghanistan."
Hiring Our Heroes hopes that the language in the job translations will also help veterans articulate their military experiences in more enticing ways during job interviews. "This is taking talking points and making them useful for veterans," said Ross Cohen, an Army veteran who is senior director for Hiring Our Heroes.
The engine also prompts veterans to add information about their advanced military schools - if veterans can't remember the exact name, they need only type in a word or two and the engine will find it. It will also automatically generate a punchy civilian translation of what was learned there. (Some of those courses pack in more learning than the average college class, Mr. Schmiegel asserts.) On the same page, the program will allow veterans to list personal skills like foreign languages, software training and budget or logistics experience.
The engine encourages job seekers to list their awards and ribbons, again making the process easy by showing pictures of dozens of awards given by each of the services. A veteran need only click on the appropriate picture - the awards are listed in order of precedence, from the exalted Medal of Honor on down - and the award will be automatically listed on the final résumé.
When the user gets to the end of the process, the engine will display a draft of their résumé. The program then offers advice on where it thinks the résumé is weak, marking the spots with green exclamation points. If, for instance, the user has included only one award or qualification, he will get this message: "We recommend including more awards and qualifications to show your experience and commendations."
Mr. Schmiegel said that though he supports splashy drives by big corporations to hire veterans, he suspects many of those campaigns result in the hiring of college-educated officers who would have found jobs anyway.
The key to breaking the high unemployment rate among post-9/11 veterans - 9.4 percent in February, down from a year earlier but still above the national average of 7.7 - is to focus on veterans under 25 who have only high school educations, Mr. Schmiegel said. Most of those veterans will be sergeants (E-5) or junior enlisted troops.
"These are kids who left high school, volunteered for the military and now are talking to employers for the first time," he said.
Hiring Our Heroes plans to train job seekers on the résumé engine at all of the more than 230 job fairs it expects to hold by the end of the year across the country. It also hopes the Pentagon will allow training on the engine at big bases like Camp Pendleton, where hundreds of Marines separate from the military every week.
"I think a lot of the issues that young veterans face stem from unemployment: substance abuse, suicide, divorce," Mr. Schmiegel said. "I think we are at a critical juncture. Many of the one million troops that will leave military in the next few years will fall through cracks. We need to do everything we can to get them jobs."

        
Group Seeks Out and Helps Homeless Veterans
        
Still Reeling From the Death of Chris Kyle, a SEAL Brother
        
Korean War Veteran Is Buried Six Decades After He Disappeared
        
Remembering Chris Kyle, a Deadly American Sniper
        
Veterans in College: Share Your Stories

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%) Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Manhattan (NYC); United States Chamber of Commerce; United States Defense and Military Forces; Veterans; Afghanistan; At War; Employment; health; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011

ORGANIZATION: United States Chamber of Commerce

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



891 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: The Breakfast Meeting: Publishers Tackle Bullies, and Columnist Sparks Cat vs. Bird Dispute

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Book publishers join the antibulling effort in a big way, the National Audubon Society reinstates a writer after a cat-poisoning dispute, and a Supreme Court decision about textbook copyrights may have widespread ramifications. 

 BODY:
The publishing industry has taken a real shine to bullies of late, Leslie Kaufman writes. According to World Cat, a catalog of library collections worldwide, the number of English-language books tagged with the key word "bullying" in 2012 was 1,891, an increase of 500 in a decade. Several publishing houses, including Random House, Simon & Schuster and Harlequin, have even started antibullying campaigns pegged around the books. The surge reflects the broader cultural recognition of the problem, spurred in part by several high-profile cases of cyberbullying that resulted in suicide. 
Ted Williams, a freelance writer for the National Audubon Society for the past 33 years, has been reinstated to his job after inciting a controversy that pitted bird lovers against cat lovers, Christine Haughney reports. Mr. Williams wrote a column for The Orlando Sentinel on March 14 identifying Tylenol as an effective poison for feral cats, which are among birds' deadliest predators. The Audubon Society suspended Mr. Williams on March 15. He has since apologized on the society's Web site, and his column will return in its July-August magazine.
A Supreme Court decision last week may have copyright ramifications almost as far-reaching as a decision in 1984 to allow Sony's Betamax to record broadcasts, Eduardo Porter writes in his "Economic Scene" column. The court, in a 6-3 decision, sided with Supap Kirtsaeng, a Thai math student who generated around $900,000 in revenue by reselling textbooks his friends and relatives sent him in the United States. The publisher John Wiley & Sons had argued that Mr. Kirtsaeng was infringing on its copyright by importing its books without permission, but the court held that Mr. Kirtsaeng's right of first sale banned the publisher's right to imports.
McCann Erickson New York, one of Madison Avenue's largest agencies, is ramping up its efforts in social media like Twitter, Tumblr and Pinterest, Stuart Elliott writes. A division of the firm that specializes in social media is being expanded to more than 30 employees and is being renamed McCann Always On. McCann Always On will work on assignment for 15 brands sold by clients like General Mills, L'Oréal and Nestlé.
Temp Tee, a whipped cream cheese product sold by the Kraft Foods Group, has begun a campaign aimed at curing "matzah fatigue," or the culinary exhaustion that accompanies the dietary strictures of the Passover holiday, Stuart Elliott writes. The campaign, with an estimated budget of less than $100,000, began this month well in advance of the holiday and features Jamie Geller, an American-born Israeli food writer and chef who is the founder of the Kosher Media Network. Ms. Geller provides recipes using Temp Tee on her Joy of Kosher Web site, videos on YouTube and other social media postings.
CBS announced Tuesday that it had completed a deal to acquire half of TVGN, formerly the TV Guide Network, Bill Carter reports. The deal puts CBS in partnership with Lionsgate and fulfills a longstanding goal of adding a general entertainment basic cable network to the company's media portfolio.
Ghost Beach, a two-man indie band from Brooklyn, is using a digital Times Square billboard to ask the public its opinion of music piracy, Ben Sisario writes. The stark, text-only spot lasts 30 seconds and asks observers to "pick a side" on Twitter, as #artistsforpiracy or #artistsagainstpiracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); BULLYING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); APPEALS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); CATS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COPYRIGHT (87%); FOOD INDUSTRY (85%); LIBRARIES (78%); CYBERBULLYING (78%); BIRDING (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); BIRDS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); SUICIDE (73%); PETS (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (71%); CHEESE (68%); PASSOVER (64%) The Breakfast Meeting

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (63%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (54%); NESTLE SA (52%); GENERAL MILLS INC (52%); KRAFT FOODS GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (63%); OR (BIT) (63%); JWB (NYSE) (54%); JWA (NYSE) (54%); NESN (SWX) (52%); GIS (NYSE) (52%); KRFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (52%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (52%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



892 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: A Toyota Solid Citizen, Now Dressed in Style

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: No longer the ordinary, boxy sport utility appliance it was, the redesigned Highlander looks downright svelte. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 Toyota Highlander
 What is it? A redesign of a key member of Toyota's foursome of midsize utility vehicles, which also includes the 4Runner, FJ Cruiser and Venza. 
 Is it real? Yes. But not for many moons. (See "How Soon?" below)
 What they said: "We think this new Highlander has the perfect balance of comfort and utility, which makes it the ultimate midsize crossover sports utility vehicle," said Bill Fay, the Toyota vice president who introduced the car.
 What they didn't say: Good thing past Highlanders weren't scored on looks alone, or the model wouldn't still be around. But considerations like bulletproof reliability, a reasonable measure of utility and decent fuel economy have kept sales strong and the audience loyal. The idea now is to retain those core attributes, while giving this 8-passenger a "come hither" look.

 What makes it tick? Three powertrain choices: a base 4-cylinder paired with a 5-speed automatic transmission, a V-6 paired with a new 6-speed automatic and a hybrid gas-electric model. No engine specs were announced.
 How much? How soon? ? No pricing was announced, but Highlander's role in Toyota's four midsize utility lineup should keep it close to the current $30,000 starting price. "It goes on sale early next year," Mr. Fay said. Seems like a rather long gestation period, for a vehicle that looks prêt-à-porter now.
 How's it look? At long last, style! No longer the ordinary, boxy sport utility appliance it was, this nouveau Highlander looks downright svelte. The profile is sleek and aerodynamic; the front end blends a tasteful but bold mix of Sequoia-like S.U.V. and Lexus-like spindle grille. Consider the bar well and truly raised.

        
Cadillac CTS Adds a Wow Factor
        
BMW Thinks Small With a 3-Cylinder Engine
        
David Murdock of Dole Food Opens California Estate for a Concours
        
Toyota Recalling 209,000 FJ Cruisers for Seat-Belt Problem
        
Wheelies: The Fraternal Twin Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); TOYOTA RECALLS (73%) automobiles; New York International Auto Show; Toyota Motor Corporation; Automobiles; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (51%) Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: DAVID H MURDOCK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



893 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Banks Seek to Overturn Judge's Ruling in Critical Mortgage Case

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The nation&#8217;s largest banks, facing a torrent of lawsuits over shoddy mortgage securities, are pushing to overturn a series of tough rulings in a high-stakes case filed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency in 2011. 

 BODY:
The nation's largest banks, facing a torrent of lawsuits over shoddy mortgage securities, are pushing to overturn a series of tough rulings in an important case.
In a rare move, 15 banks - including Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and UBS - filed a motion in Federal District Court in Manhattan late Tuesday night to throw out a series of decisions by Judge Denise L. Cote, according to a copy of the court filing. In doing so, the financial institutions are aiming to broaden the amount of evidence they can gather in the hopes of quashing the lawsuit.
The rulings, the banks argue, are so "gravely prejudicial" that the firms had no choice, a step that was not "taken lightly." 
The case could have costly implications.
In 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, accused the banks of duping the housing giants into buying $200 billion of mortgage securities that ultimately imploded during the financial crisis. On Wall Street, the lawsuit is considered a critical litmus test for how successful the banks will be in stanching their losses from the mortgage litigation.
The banks have been aggressively trying to thwart the lawsuit. In November, Judge Cote denied requests by the banks to toss out the lawsuit altogether.
Now, the banks are trying to reverse her rulings that limit the amount of so-called discovery they can collect, including depositions and internal documents. The decisions, according to the court filing, unfairly constricts the banks, undercuts their ability to fight the lawsuit and is "grossly inequitable."
In an order in May 2012, Judge Cote ruled that the banks could take a total of only 20 depositions, or interviews, from current and former employees at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the housing agency. The court filing claims that the limited scope of the interviews leaves the banks without a full understanding of Fannie's and Freddie's operations.
By comparison, under the judge's ruling, the Federal Housing Finance Agency can gather 400 depositions. The ruling also prevents the banks from gathering additional information from a major unit within the mortgage finance firms that evaluated home loans before they were packaged and sliced into the complex investments.
"This structure creates an extraordinarily uneven playing field that deprives petitioners of the right to confront the claims against them, while giving F.H.F.A. a distinct advantage," the banks' filing says.
Judge Cote reaffirmed the rules governing discovery in a separate order filed last month. In that order, the judge reiterated that "defendants as a group may take 20 depositions of F.H.F.A." Even the housing agency proposed a more generous deposition cap of 40 total, the banks say.
The banks assert in the court filing that the limitations will hobble their defenses while unfairly letting the housing agency proceed with its case. The decision, the filing says, will ultimately force the banks to settle.
Judge Cote did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
The move is the latest effort by big banks to put the mortgage mess - and the related legal headaches - behind them.
In recent years, the banks have been overwhelmed with lawsuits filed by federal and state authorities, as well as private investors. The lawsuits center on a dismal chapter in banks' histories when Wall Street sold billions of dollars of subprime mortgages that soured, causing the banks and investors to incur vast losses.
In the latest salvo, Citigroup agreed this month to pay $730 million over accusations that the bank deceived investors in securities backed by mortgage loans. Citigroup did not admit wrongdoing.
The lawsuits show no signs of abating. In October, federal prosecutors in Manhattan accused Bank of America of fraud, claiming the firm's subprime lender Countrywide Financial churned out loans at such a fast clip that quality controls were almost entirely flouted.
Analysts say the mortgage-related litigation is among the greatest threats to the industry's profit. In the fourth quarter, Citigroup's profit was eroded by a $1.3 billion legal bill.

        
U.S. Accuses Bank of America of a 'Brazen' Mortgage Fraud
        
In Deal, Bank of America Extends Retreat From Mortgages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (97%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (93%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PETITIONS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Decisions and Verdicts; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal Housing Finance Agency; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); JPMorgan Chase & Company; Manhattan (NYC); Mortgage-Backed Securities; Mortgages; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation; UBS AG; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)|FNMA|OTCBB; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal Housing Finance Agency; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); JPMorgan Chase & Company; UBS AG

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



894 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Security and Insecurities

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins on same-sex marriage, teen mothers and single parenthood. 

 BODY:
David Brooks: I guess the Supreme Court hearing on same-sex marriage is pretty much dominating the week.
Gail Collins: Whew. I was afraid you were going to demand we discuss college basketball. Go, Marquette!
David: Well, I confess that my emotional life right now revolves around the question of whether Indiana can win a slowed-down, half-court game against a quality opponent. Fortunately, their next two prospective opponents, Syracuse and Miami, are run-and-gun type teams. But I thought it unfair to burden you with that. All of us in the coastal media have to overplay the importance of these same-sex marriage Supreme Court hearings and I'm trying to do my part.
Gail: Even if the Court comes up with some weenie dodge-the-issue ruling, I think we'll remember this as a big moment that marked a dramatic change in American attitudes.
David: Like everybody else, I'm kind of amazed by the shift in public opinion on this issue. In 3,000 years of Western civilization, no major culture has shifted this fast to give gays and lesbians equality, as the U.S. and Europe have recently. It's astounding. 
Gail: The civil rights movement was the transcendent experience in modern American history. The people didn't just accept social change - they gradually re-evaluated their whole history, and it made them extremely sensitive to issues of fairness. And once the American public decides something's not fair, the battle is pretty much over.
David: I'd ascribe part of the shift, as Frank Bruni did the other day, to those gays and lesbians who were brave enough to come out and show the world what they look like. I'd also say that the deal was sealed once the issue became about marriage. That is, once gays and lesbians were seeking access to one of the most traditional institutions in society, then they were bound to win more support.
Gail: Let's give some special credit to the normal, run-of-the-mill TV entertainment industry. I have a very clear memory of watching the first season of "The Amazing Race" in 2001. Each pair of contestants had some little ID tag, like "bowling moms" or "fraternity brothers." There were two guys with a "life partners" tag. That was the very first time I thought: "Wow, this is going to work out."
David: This leads to a general rule. If you want to win respect for your formerly excluded group, try to be more culturally conservative than anybody else. This is something the great and underappreciated A. Philip Randolph understood. You can be politically radical if you are culturally conservative and still get a hearing. The radicals of the 1960s got this one wrong.
Gail: That may be part of a larger rule, which is that people have to be able to identify with the excluded folks. The greatest warriors for gay marriage have been the average gay people who came out to their families and friends and communities. I grew up in one of the most socially conservative neighborhoods in Ohio, and my parents were traditional Catholics. But in her old age, my mother got her home health care from a guy who was gay, who was wonderful to her. Before she died, she rode a float in the Cincinnati Gay Pride Parade.
I don't know what plans Rob Portman, the Republican senator from Cincinnati, has for the next parade. But we all know what happened to his position on gay marriage when his son came out.
David: Does this feel reversible to you? Everybody is simply assuming that gays and lesbians are winning more acceptance and respect and that this status can never be taken away. I guess I sort of think that is true, but history is full of reversals and shifts. Let's say evidence develops over the decade that same-sex marriages are not stable and that the outcomes for children are not as good. I guess that might turn the tide. I see opponents of same-sex marriage already turning to Darwin (Oh, the irony!), arguing that children do best when both parents are biologically connected to them.
I wouldn't be surprised if same-sex marriage shook out the way hetero marriage has - great stability at the top of the educated class, great instability among the less educated.
Gail: Well, it'd certainly be fascinating if we discovered that gays were better at being married than heterosexuals are. Talk about irony.
David: What should we make of people who opposed gay marriage? Should they be treated like Bull Connor and thrown onto the bad guy lists of history? Is opposing gay marriage now the moral equivalent of opposing the Civil Rights Act, a stain and career ender?
Personally, I don't think the two are quite comparable. Straight marriage had been around for thousands and thousands of years. It's not disgraceful to be careful about seeing it redefined. I was never an opponent of gay marriage, but I can't dismiss the skepticism of people who instinctively resisted change to an ancient and fundamental institution.
Gail: There have been tons of politicians who were slow to accept equal rights when it meant changes in the established social order. Many eventually came around, admitted they were wrong, and were forgiven. But the ones who actively choose hate-mongering don't ever get a pass.
David: Speaking of marriage, what do you make about Mayor Bloomberg's posters that try to raise awareness about the downsides of teen motherhood. I would have phrased them differently, so that they don't appear to stigmatize parents, but I'm glad he's at least publicizing the facts about this issue.
Gail: Mike Bloomberg, I'm sorry to say, is a walking advertisement for term limits. We're now in year 12 and lately, everything he does sounds like a nag. I'm looking forward to the day when he can go off and underwrite the gun control movement 24-7.
David: There is no social trend more harmful to America's future than the rise of out-of-wedlock birth, and aggressive steps need to be taken to reverse this trend.
Gail: The bottom line on single parenthood is the massive changes in the American economy. Women no longer have to stick with unhappy relationships in order to survive. And if they want to have children, they no longer necessarily need a man to support them. I understand your concern, but telling them not to do it isn't going to work.
David: There are two related issues here. First the rate of teenage pregnancy, highlighted in the poster campaign, and then the rise of single parenthood generally. I'd say the problem is not women leaving unhappy relationships. It's teenagers having kids before marriage, without any prospect of marriage, while living in environments in which marriage is not even a social norm. It's the absence of marriageable men. It's the absence of working-class jobs. It's lonely people wanting a child they can care for and love. It's a million different things woven together. Somehow we have to reverse the decline in marriage, without trying to solve every last contributing factor, since unless we can get more kids living in stable homes, all the problems just get worse.
The job is to make marriage more attractive (which basically means creating more men who are worth marrying) and making single parenthood less attractive (which means attaching some stigma to it since the economic penalties are already so profound). The trick is making single parenthood less attractive while not stigmatizing those who are in this position, usually because of a series of complex causes and no fault of their own.
I guess the posters fail that test, but at least someone is trying to inform the public about the facts.
Gail: Conservatives were sure that if you eliminated welfare for single moms, it would eliminate - or at lease greatly reduce - single motherhood. So in 1996 we had welfare reform. Did not change the trend in the least. Soon half of all babies will be born out of wedlock.
I'll rally around your ideas to help make lower-income young men more employable. But I don't think the stigma idea is going to work at all. Let me recommend better high school sex education instead. And maybe a generous contribution to Planned Parenthood.
David: You show me a sex-ed program that works and I'll give you Marquette as national champion.

        
Wedding Bells
        
Misconceptions
        
Changing Times
        
When Hope Tramples Truth
        
Abraham Lincoln, War President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (94%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); HISTORY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (62%) Homosexuality; marriages; Planned Parenthood Federation of America; Portman, Rob; Randolph, A Philip; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Supreme Court; Marriages; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Planned Parenthood Federation of America; Supreme Court

PERSON: Portman, Rob; Randolph, A Philip

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



895 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: A Republican Left Turn?

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Grover Norquist doesn&#8217;t think so, but other party strategists want to try it &#8212; no matter how it makes evangelicals feel. 

 BODY:
If the Republican Party concedes defeat in the culture war, as a number of commentators on the right and the left argue it should, what what will happen to the conservative coalition? Can hard-line stands on social issues be set aside?
On one side of the intraparty battle stands Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, who has suggested again and again over the past week that party leaders need to reduce the salience of culturally divisive issues. "We don't have time to divide our party. We've got to go back to welcoming anyone who walks through that door," Priebus told New Mexico Republicans on March 23. "We don't need to be labeling people, 'You're a bad Republican'... Reagan said someone who is 80 percent my friend is not 20 percent my enemy. I want to build this party."

At a breakfast session with reporters on March 18 in Washington, Priebus defended the decision of Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, whose son is gay, to declare his support for same-sex marriage. "I mean, it's his decision. It's his decision," Priebus told the press. 
It's not a matter of whether I support his decision; I support him doing what he wants to do as an elected person and as an American. If that's his opinion, then I support him having that opinion.
Chris Cillizza, an insightful Washington Post columnist, argued that Portman's decision was 
the latest in a series of moves that make one thing crystal clear: The political debate on gay marriage is effectively over.
Not everyone in the Republican Party was on board. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, counterattacked on March 20:
Reince Priebus has decided that the way for his party to win over voters is to parrot the Left's policies. The grand strategy, which calls for throwing the party's social conservatives overboard, demands the G.O.P. be more "welcoming" and "inclusive" to people that are actively working against the conservative principles in the Republican platform.
Rush Limbaugh warned that if party leaders abandoned the right's social agenda, "they are going to cause their base to stay home and throw their hands up in utter frustration."
Actually, for Republicans, the upside of blunting volatile social issues is far greater than Limbaugh suggests.
The potential gains from a softening of the party's hard-right stand on social and cultural issues could be huge: a return to full competitiveness and a reversal of a widespread, sharply negative view of the Republican Party. The pollster Andy Kohut, former president of the Pew Center, described the chasm between Republican Party loyalists and the voting public in a March 22 article in the Washington Post, "The Numbers Prove It: The G.O.P. is estranged from America":
The outsize influence of hard-line elements in the party base is doing to the G.O.P. what supporters of Gene McCarthy and George McGovern did to the Democratic Party in the late 1960s and early 1970s - radicalizing its image and standing in the way of its revitalization.
The party, Kohut warned,
is increasingly dominated by a highly energized bloc of voters with extremely conservative positions on nearly all issues: the size and role of government, foreign policy, social issues, and moral concerns. They stand with the tea party on taxes and spending and with Christian conservatives on key social questions, such as abortion rights and same-sex marriage. These staunch conservatives, who emerged with great force in the Obama era, represent 45 percent of the Republican base. According to our 2011 survey, they are demographically and politically distinct from the national electorate. Ninety-two percent are white. They tend to be male, married, Protestant, well off and at least 50 years old.
Jonathan Haidt, a professor at the Stern School of Business at N.Y.U. and the author of "The Righteous Mind," wrote in an e-mail to The Times that intraparty Republican divisions go beyond social and cultural issues and that 
the left-right divide politically reflects an underlying psychological dimension, related to openness to experience vs. threat sensitivity and preference for order/stability. 
In past times 
of rising crime, a cold war, rising nuclear war fears, and rising Islamic terrorism, there was a lot to hold together the large conservative coalition.
Now, with diminished external threats, there is much less "to galvanize people with a psychologically conservative disposition." Instead, Haidt argued, the more intensely felt current threats are economic, and it is
not immediately clear why shrinking the government is the best way to meet those threats. I don't think the Republicans have found an issue or argument or moral appeal that strongly activates conservative moral sensibilities.
With the apparent decline of external threats, Steve Ansolabehere, a political scientist at Harvard, predicted that the next internal conflict for Republicans would be "over taxes/small government versus defense." He argued that 
the Rand Paul wing of the party will sacrifice defense spending (and is even somewhat hostile toward it) in order to shrink the government. That's at odds with a more traditional Republican position.
Robert Y. Shapiro, a political scientist at Columbia who has studied left-right divisions and polarization, is actually optimistic about prospects for conservatism. In an e-mail, he wrote:
The right has been weakened on gay rights and now gay marriage, and it looks like immigration. Also interestingly there are fissures on defense spending since defense cuts have been accepted by some conservatives in the sequester as a needed part of budget cutting and holding the Democrats' feet to the fire on that. But conservatism may not weaken by much since it looks like it can and has regrouped on economic and social welfare spending, taxes, and the budget deficit. Economic and anti-regulation conservatism has hardly weakened. 
And on the cultural/values issues, abortion is as strong a rallying issue as ever (public opinion has not shifted left on this, even among younger cohorts in contrast to other issues), and they are just more cautious regarding what they say about contraception. Conservatives would look as much as ever for opportunities on prayer in schools and support for religious group endeavors. Conservatives have held together on guns even after recent events. And with regard to racial and racial justice issues, watch the Supreme Court on voting rights and affirmative action. Conservatives have not been weakened any further on these issues.
Grover Norquist, one of the leading architects, organizers and cheerleaders of what he calls the "leave us alone" coalition, is bubbling with enthusiasm.
Norquist told me in a phone interview that he thinks policies initiated by Republicans at the state and local levels, by breaking the link that joins individuals and families to government, are laying the groundwork for a continuing expansion of the conservative electorate.
Nearly two million children are now home-schooled, Norquist said, and their families have rejected government-run public schools and decided that they can do a better job on their own. Some eight million men and women have concealed-carry handgun permits, with the result that they feel "more self-assured, more independent, not as worried police will draw chalk marks around their body" and certainly less inclined, according to Norquist, to support a pro-gun-control Democratic Party. Along similar lines, Norquist notes, the number of poor students receiving vouchers to attend private schools is rising steadily as the passage of state right-to-work laws is gutting dues-paying membership in public employee unions, a financial mainstay of the Democratic Party.
"I'm reasonably confident that at the state level we are creating more people who want to be part of the 'leave us alone coalition,' " Norquist said. He predicts that within the next decade, Republicans will take control of the Senate and regain the White House.
Craig Shirley, a conservative activist and the author of two books about the Reagan revolution, is convinced that self-proclaimed conservatives have undermined their own cause by attempting to use the federal government to address social issues.
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, he said, should never have pushed for enactment of the Defense of Marriage Act: "it was wrong, it was the federalization of social policy."
The Republican Party has begun to move to the left on social and cultural issues, as well as on immigration. Despite the warnings of mass defections of white evangelical and born-again Christians, these shifts will not be as costly as some people, both inside and outside the party, claim. 
The fact is that on pretty much every noncultural issue - government spending, taxes, the regulatory state and national defense - the Christian right holds orthodox Republican views virtually identical to those of mainstream Republicans. Its members are unlikely to bolt the party.
Take a look at this Pew Center chart, Figure 1.
The constituency most convinced that "government regulation of business usually does more harm than good," a core tenet of the modern Republican Party, is white evangelical Christians:
Or, take Figure 2. The Christian right tops everyone in its conviction that "the best way to ensure peace is through military strength."
Finally, just about everyone (see Figure 3) says they are patriotic, but who tops the list?
In other words, the Republican Party can afford to marginalize Tony Perkins and other Christian right leaders because evangelical social conservatives, who make up more than a third of the Republican electorate, are not going to vote Democratic. Nor are they going to join an exodus to a third party. Rush Limbaugh to the contrary, they won't stay home either.
Minimal losses among these voters could be made up for by slight gains among other constituencies like young voters, minorities and single white women.
Withdrawing full-throated support for the religious right (for example, by altering the anti-abortion plank of the 2012 Republican Party platform, which called for a constitutional amendment banning abortion without exception for victims of rape or incest or to save the life of the mother) may be a gamble - and may cost the party donors - but at the moment the Republican Party holds a losing hand.

        
The Republican Autopsy Report
        
Republicans Ask Themselves What Went Wrong
        
A Great Debate
        
Political Intelligence
        
The Latest in Anti-Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (96%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RELIGION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); WRITERS (72%); MARRIAGE (71%) Conservatism (US Politics); Haidt, Jonathan; Kohut, Andy; Norquist, Grover G; Portman, Rob; Priebus, Reince R; Republican National Committee; Republican Party; The Righteous Mind (Book); United States Politics and Government; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Republican National Committee; Republican Party

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%) Haidt, Jonathan; Kohut, Andy; Norquist, Grover G; Portman, Rob; Priebus, Reince R

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



896 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: A Lighter, Faster Volkswagen GTI for 2015

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: VW says the new GTI, which the company says is 220 pounds lighter than the previous model, will get up to 23 percent better fuel economy. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27, 2013: 2015 Volkswagen Golf GTI
 What it it? Although Volkswagen had already introduced its Golf GTI at the Geneva motor show this month, the North American market had yet to learn which engine options were available on this side of the Atlantic. The answer is clear: not as many as Europeans are getting. The New World will also get the GTI later than Europe
.
 Is it real? Absolutely. Volkswagen promises a car that is lighter, faster, more fuel efficient and more spacious inside than its predecessor. 
 What they said: The new Golf will be produced in Volkswagen's Mexico plant. VW says the new GTI, which the company says is 220 pounds lighter than the previous model, will get up to 23 percent better fuel economy. VW also says hybrid and full electric models using the new Golf platform are in the works and likely to appear eventually.
 What they didn't say: We know that the North American spec GTI will have manual and automatic transmission options, but Volkswagen declined to specify how many gears and what sort of gadgets those transmissions will be equipped with in their North American cars. It's logical that there will be a 6-speed manual and some kind of dual-clutch automatic offered.
 What makes it tick? Although the standard Golf will get a 170 horsepower, 1.8-liter turbocharged gasoline engine or a 150 horsepower 2-liter turbo diesel, the hot hatch GTI features a version of VW's new EA288 engine family. The turbocharged 2-liter 4 cylinder engine makes 210 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque. The GTI will also be tricked out with sporty interior cues, like side hugging plaid-upholstered seats, a black headliner, stainless steel pedals and shift knob and red dash lighting. As with many cars, a dash mounted 5.8-inch touchscreen will be offered as standard equipment on the GTI.
 How much? How soon? Pricing for the GTI has not been announced yet, but it will become available during the first half of 2014 as a 2015 model in North America.
 How's it look? The GTI looks as rakish as anyone would expect a hot hatch to look, but not overly so. Its low stance and wide, simple wheels give it athletic poise, and its furrowed grille and headlights lend a distinctly European flair to its aggressive vibe. Thankfully, Volkswagen did not include a huge grille or radiator intake. The interior is uncomplicated and attractive. The seats are comfortable, and the controls easy to reach. Plaid seating surfaces do a nice job of offsetting the overall darkness of the car's black interior.

        
A Toyota Solid Citizen, Now Dressed in Style
        
Cadillac CTS Adds a Wow Factor
        
BMW Thinks Small With a 3-Cylinder Engine
        
In the Shadow of LaFerrari, the Pininfarina Sergio
        
Settlement of Class Action Against Audi Gets Preliminary Approval

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); LITIGATION (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%) automobiles; Manhattan (NYC); New York International Auto Show; Volkswagen AG; Automobiles; Volkswagen AG|VLKAY|Other OTC; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); PININFARINA SPA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen AG

TICKER: PINF (BIT) (50%) Volkswagen AG; VLKAY; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



897 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: A Nifty 50th for the Porsche 911

BYLINE: JOHN R. QUAIN


HIGHLIGHT: In conjunction with the New York auto show, Porsche celebrated half a century of its 911 sports car at a beer garden in the meatpacking district of Manhattan. 

 BODY:
Not many car companies are associated with a single automobile. Fewer still continue to produce the very car that made the marque. So the 50th birthday of the Porsche 911 is definitely noteworthy.
Appropriately enough, just ahead of the New York auto show, Porsche celebrated half a century of the 911 on Tuesday evening at a beer garden - albeit an upscale beer garden in the meatpacking district of Manhattan. On hand was Detlev von Platen, president and chief executive of Porsche Cars North America, along with sundry executives and one of the car's most celebrated and successful American racecar drivers, Hurley Haywood.
With a 2013 911 Carrera 4S in the bar next to a 1968 911, it was obvious to even casual observers that while much about the car has changed over the years, much has also remained the same. 
"You still recognize the lines, and the design language is the same," Mr. von Platen said in an interview at the event.
The 911 is also still a rear-engine sports car designed to deliver performance. But while it may sit confidently in a trendy bar today, it was almost put out to pasture on more than one occasion.
Porsche had planned to replace the 911 with the larger, front-engine, V-8-powered 928. Mr. von Platen believes that was when the model came closest to extinction.
"In the 1980s, the 911 was in danger of being discontinued," he said. Exchange rates and a difficult American economy had hurt sales, but the outcry from Porsche aficionados at the very idea of terminating the model made the company realize that "its destiny was tied to the 911," Mr. von Platen said. (But he also noted that the Cayenne S.U.V. now accounts for roughly half of all Porsches sold in the United States.)
Consequently, Porsche has continually improved and updated its sports car with new technology and upgrades. Some of those changes - like the adoption of a water-cooled engine and electronic steering - have met with skepticism.
"People at first complain, but after they experience it, you don't hear those complaints anymore," Mr. von Platen said.
Once notorious for punishing any driver who failed to pay attention, the rear-engine 911 has become much better behaved as it has approached middle age. Much of this is thanks to a host of electronic stability and traction controls that compensate for the overexuberance of an overconfident driver. But according to Mr. Haywood, who has spent all but a couple of his professional years behind the wheel of a Porsche, and has amassed five titles at the 24 Hours of Daytona, three victories at the 24 Hours of Le Mans and two wins at the 12 Hours of Sebring, the 911 still drives the way it did when he first climbed into a Targa in the 1960s.
"The limits now are different, but the principles are the same," he said in an interview. Mr. Haywood, who is also the chief instructor for the Porsche Sport Driving School, said that for all the technology, one can still put the car into a full-throttle, opposite-lock situation, "but to induce that, you have to be going at a really high rate of speed."
Mr. Haywood, who had a reputation for keeping Porsches pointed in the right direction, said the trick was to drive the car right to the limits of adhesion, but not beyond. "The 911 doesn't defy the laws of physics," he said.
As if in contrast, just a couple of blocks north of the Porsche event, Ford was pre-celebrating the Mustang's 50th birthday, which arrives next year. Ford's evening event at an art gallery featured displays of items and drivers associated with the quintessential American pony car: a Parnelli Jones helmet, for example, and a wall-size poster of Steve McQueen and the Mustang immortalized in "Bullitt."
Unlike the 911, however, the Mustang has been the victim of fashion and fads through the years. It often bore little relation to its original design. The 1970s were particularly cruel, with the bloated, lugubrious 1971 model followed later by the puny pony of 1974, the Mustang II. Ford has since brought muscle back to the brand, but unlike the Porsche 911 there is a lack of continuity in Mustang designs.
Under the sheet metal, however, Porsche's sports car is changing. The updated GT3 model, for example, which made its North American debut at the New York show on Wednesday, features rear-wheel steering, a first for the company. Mr. Haywood noted that even the manual transmission, still available on the 4S, was likely to disappear in the future.
So with all the technological changes, what would a hall-of-fame professional Porsche driver consider the finest example of the 911?
"My favorite Porsche, as they say, is next year's Porsche," Mr. Haywood said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AUTO RACING (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%) 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows; Automobiles; sports cars

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); PORSCHE CARS NORTH AMERICA INC (57%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



898 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Acura Looks to the Front With the MDX

BYLINE: TAMARA WARREN


HIGHLIGHT: The Acura MDX broadens its market with the addition of front-wheel drive. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday March 27, 2013: 2014 Acura MDX
 What is it? The third generation MDX is a refined seven-seat S.U.V. that adds flexibility, functionality and a refreshed face to the Acura alphabet. 
 Is it real? Yes. Acura expands on the form language of the RLX flagship sedan, but also aims to be every family's luxury S.U.V. with the addition of its front-wheel drive option.
 What they said: "More sport, more utility and big dose of added luxury," said Jeff Conrad, general manager of Acura sales. Mr. Conrad emphasized the upscale features and technology on the MDX. Car company executives rarely bring up private jets at an auto show, but he made the connection. "The new Acura MDX is like an executive family jet," he said.
 What they didn't say: Front-wheel drive also appeals to customers who live in cold-weather climates. Acura is eying a broader customer base to compete in the specialized seven-seater category that serves customers with children, dogs and substantial cargo with its more economical, fuel-efficient front-wheel-drive package.
 What makes it tick? A faster, more efficient 3.5-liter i-VTEC V-6 that produces 290 horsepower and 267 pound-feet of torque. Mr. Conrad said the MDX clocked a time eight seconds faster than the current model in tests at the Nürburgring track. The MDX will be offered in all-wheel drive, which achieves 18 miles per gallon in the city and 21 miles per gallon on the highway. The front-wheel-drive model rates 20 m.p.g. in the city and 28 on the highway.
 How much? How soon? The MDX reaches dealerships this summer. Pricing will be announced closer to the on-sale date. The current MDX with all-wheel drive is $44,175, but the new front-wheel-drive model is expected to enter at lower price point.
 How's it look? The MDX has shed its square roots and moved to a more elongated form. The roofline is 1.5 inches lower than the outgoing model, and the door panels have a more concave definition. A cocktail of high-strength steel, aluminum and magnesium are used to achieve this slightly bulbous shape. LED headlights frame the grille. The form borrows from the more flush proportions of the RLX, which Acura calls Executive Aero Sculpture. The interior has a sharp, cockpit feel illuminated by LED lights that taper down to the shift selector. Much like a New York apartment, the MDX divides the space efficiently, including an under-floor storage area and reclining second-row seats that fold with a touch of the button.

        
A Lighter, Faster Volkswagen GTI for 2015
        
Small Cars That Are Far From Frumpy
        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Acura Division of Honda Motor Co; automobiles; Manhattan (NYC); New York International Auto Show; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; New York Auto Show

ORGANIZATION: Acura Division of Honda Motor Co

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



899 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: BMW 328d

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The BMW 3 Series sedan is powered by a 4-cylinder diesel that emphasizes fuel economy. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 BMW 328d
 What is it? A 3 Series sedan powered by a 4-cylinder diesel that emphasizes fuel economy. It succeeds the performance-oriented 6-cylinder 335d, which was sold in the United States in 2009-2011. There will also be a 3 Series Sports Wagon diesel, and a 6-cylinder 5 Series diesel is on the way. The 328d sedan is E.P.A.-rated at 45 m.p.g. on the highway; BMW said to expect mid-30s in the city. 
 Is it real? Yes. BMW hasn't had a diesel sedan for two years, but an average of 25 percent of the X5 S.U.V.'s sales have been diesels. Americans appear to be warming to clean diesels, and there should be a market opportunity for a car with BMW cachet that can deliver fuel economy topping 40 m.p.g. on the highway.
 What they said: "It's an authentic ultimate driving machine, but also very, very efficient," said Ludwig Willisch, chief executive of BMW of North America. "It fits well into today's market situation."
 What they didn't say: A car can't win a perfect 10 in every category. In a test drive earlier this week at BMW's Woodcliff Lake, N.J. headquarters, the 328d was fun to drive, relatively responsive and quirk-free, but not a barn burner. That seems a good tradeoff for the fuel economy the car achieves.
 What makes it tick? Power comes from a 2-liter twin-turbo direct injection 4, producing 180 horsepower and 280 pound-feet of torque. That's connected to an 8-speed automatic transmission. All-wheel drive is available.
 How much, how soon? The 328d will be at dealers in the fall. There's no firm pricing yet, but the sedan is expected to sell for around $40,000.
 How's it look? Like a conventional BMW 3 Series. To confirm it's a diesel, look at the badge on the back.

        
BMW Thinks Small With a 3-Cylinder Engine
        
A Lighter, Faster Volkswagen GTI for 2015
        
A Toyota Solid Citizen, Now Dressed in Style
        
Cadillac CTS Adds a Wow Factor
        
Designer of Gran Coupe Brings Flow to BMW 6 Series

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEDANS (93%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; New York International Auto Show; New York Auto Show

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



900 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: A New Cherokee for Jeep's Next Generation

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Built on the same platform as the Alfa Romeo Giulietta and Dodge Dart, the new Cherokee may be more pasta than apple pie. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 Jeep Cherokee
 What is it? Jeep needed a midsize utility vehicle to replace the Liberty, so it was decided to disinter the Cherokee nameplate, laid to rest (in the United States, at least) in 2001, when the venerated XJ was retired. Built on the same platform as the Alfa Romeo Giulietta/Dodge Dart, it may be more pasta than apple pie, aimed as much at cranking out impressive fuel economy numbers as it is at balancing on- and off-road versatility. 
 Is it real? Ever since Jeep released photos of the decidedly European looking Cherokee in February, it has created quite a buzz. Here, the new Cherokee drove across a series of stylized boulder-esque contraptions mounted to the stage and into real life as Mike Manley, Jeep's chief executive, introduced it.
 What they said: "From a styling point of view, we know people have different tastes," said Mr. Manley, adding that it shares DNA with other Jeep products. That DNA, he explained, has to do with the new Cherokee's capability on and off road. "What we tried to do was design a vehicle for this generation and the next, so we had to be progressive," he said.
 What they didn't say: Jeep's favorite words at this show seem to be "capability" and "DNA." They didn't say what those words meant, exactly, but it will be interesting to see how the capability part relates to a good Moab thrashing, ideally before the Easter Jeep Safari next spring.
 What makes it tick? One of the engines offered is Chrysler's new 3.2-liter Pentastar V-6, strong enough for a 4,500 pound towing capacity but 30 percent more efficient than the Liberty's last generation 3.7-liter V-6. The other option is a 2.4-liter Tigershark MultiAir 2 engine, capable of getting more than 30 m.p.g. The Cherokee will also introduce Chrysler's new 9-speed automatic transmission. Three four-wheel drive setups will be available - one with a single-speed transfer case, one with a dual range transfer case, and the top of the line version with a hi-low transfer case combined with an electronic rear differential lock for greater crawling power.
 How much, how soon? Pricing hasn't yet been finalized. Jeep plans to bring the 2014 Cherokee to showrooms by the end of the summer.
 How's it look? This is the tricky part. Wearing the nameplate of a revered and very conservative forebear, the new Cherokee departs radically from that tradition, walking away from the boxy, simple XJ sold all over the world. This Cherokee features streamlined body panels and a cartoonish front clip that has evoked vitriol from hardline fans, who have said that the trademark Jeep grille seems like an afterthought, with headlights like squinty eyes and a mouthlike lower air intake whose maniacal grin could be taken for a deranged clown.

        
Chrysler Warns Dodge Challenger Owners of Fire Risk
        
Lexus Ranked No. 1 on Consumer Reports Annual Report Card
        
Chrysler Recalls 745,000 Jeeps for Air Bag Problem
        
Ford Continues Slide in Reliability Survey; Japanese Brands on Top
        
N.H.T.S.A. Opens Investigations Into 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee and 2009-10 Ram 1500

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Chrysler Group LLC; Jeep Division of Chrysler; Moab (Utah); 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler Group LLC; Jeep Division of Chrysler

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) Moab (Utah)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



901 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: A Bentley That Looks Like, Well, a Bentley

BYLINE: NICK KURCZEWSKI


HIGHLIGHT: According to Bentley, the new Flying Spur is the most powerful four-door Bentley ever. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 Bentley Flying Spur
 What is it? In terms of size and price, the revised Flying Spur is slotted above the Continental GT coupe, and beneath the English automaker's largest and most expensive offering, the Mulsanne sedan. 
 Is it real? The 2014 Flying Spur made its official debut at the veritable parking lot of ultra-luxury automobiles that was this year's Geneva Motor Show. However, the New York auto show is the plush sedan's first official appearance in the United States.
 What they said: "The new Flying Spur is the most powerful and fastest four-door Bentley ever," said Kevin Rose, Bentley's member of the board for sales and marketing.
 What they didn't say: Why Bentley chose a purple paint job for the Flying Spur on display in New York.
 What makes it tick? The 6-liter W-12 in the Flying Spur produces 616 horsepower and 590 pound-feet of torque. With all-wheel drive and an 8-speed automatic transmission, acceleration from 0 to 60 miles per hour is estimated by the company at 4.3 seconds. Top speed is an even 200 m.p.h.
 How much, how soon? The Flying Spur goes on sale in the second quarter of this year with a starting price of $200,500.
 How's it look? As Bentley stated during its press conference, you could take all the badges off the Flying Spur and still know it is a Bentley. The styling checks all the right boxes: a massive chrome grill, a wide and muscular stance and a cabin that could double as a gentlemen's club.

        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango
        
Hyundai Equus: A Few Rungs Up the Social Ladder
        
Nissan Pathfinder Hybrid: Innovation but No Beauty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); SPORTS CARS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) automobiles; Bentley Motors Ltd; Geneva International Motor Show; Luxury Goods; New York International Auto Show; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

ORGANIZATION: Bentley Motors Ltd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



902 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: A BMW Inspired by a Lamborghini

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The GT, making its North American debut at the show, is a 3 Series hatchback with an eight-inch stretch, based on the platform of a long-wheelbase 3 Series that is sold in China. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 
 2014 BMW 335i Gran Turismo
 What is it? The GT, which made its North American debut at the show, is a 3 Series hatchback with an eight-inch stretch, mostly in the back, for a major increase in cargo space compared with the sedan. The GT also has rear legroom comparable to a 5 Series. According to its exterior designer, Page Beermann, the car is based on the platform of a long-wheelbase 3-Series that is sold in China, where chauffeur-driven cars are popular. 
 Is it real? Yes. The GT, designed in California and finished in Germany, will be an option on both the 335i and 328i. The xDrive all-wheel-drive system is standard on both. 
 What they said: "It's the best of two worlds, with the elegance of a sedan and the convenience of a wagon," said Ludwig Willisch, president and chief executive of BMW of North America. 
 What they didn't say: BMW will offer for 2014 a 328i Sport Wagon version of the 3 Series at a similar price, and it would seem to appeal to the same group of cargo-carrying consumers. But many Americans avoid station wagons (at least in name) because of their old-fashioned connotations. Mr. Willisch said he expected the biggest market for the new GT to be in Europe, because Italians and Germans like wagons. 
 What makes it tick? The 328i GT will offer a 2-liter, 240-horsepower 4-cylinder engine, and the 335i GT a 3-liter, 300-horsepower in-line 6. Both engines have twin turbochargers and direct injection, and the transmissions are 8-speed automatics.
 How much, how soon? The GT will be on sale this fall. The 328i version is priced at $41,450 and the 335i at $46,850, plus the mandatory $895 destination charge. 
 How's it look? The GT has a graceful appearance with a coupelike rear roofline. The extra length is absorbed without grievous injury to the basic 3 Series design. BMW aficionados with long memories may remember the 2002 Touring of the early 1970s, which added versatility to one of the company's sport sedans (but, unfortunately, not in the American market). More recent comparisons might be to the Toyota Prius V or the Ford C-Max, cargo haulers that nobody compares to a Country Squire paneled in fake wood. But Mr. Beermann said his inspiration was actually the classic Lamborghini Espada. "It's a sports tourer that seated four comfortably," he said. "Its spirit spoke to me."

        
BMW Thinks Small With a 3-Cylinder Engine
        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango
        
Hyundai Equus: A Few Rungs Up the Social Ladder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPORTS CARS (69%) automobiles; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



903 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Rolls-Royce Wraith: A Coupe for High Rollers Only

BYLINE: LAWRENCE ULRICH


HIGHLIGHT: Perhaps the best-looking Rolls in years, the Wraith manages to seem imposing, yet elegant and alive. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 Rolls-Royce Wraith
 What is it? Previously shown in Geneva, the Wraith instantly becomes one the world's most desirable ultra-luxury cars - a fastback coupe that's meant to be driven by its owner, not by a chauffeur. 
 Is it real? To sheiks, sultans and hip-hop moguls, sure. To the rest of us, the Wraith will seem as rare and fantastical as its name, first used on a Rolls-Royce in 1938.
 What they said: Giles Taylor, director of design for Rolls-Royce, showed off the Wraith's stunning details, including its rear-hinged coach doors - here lined in stunning, low-gloss wood veneer, with buttons that swing them shut automatically. The very-high-rent interior includes a glass roof with a leather liner or the Starlight headliner that shines with a galaxy of 1,340 fiber-optic nodes. "You can't deny the glamour of the brand," Mr. Taylor said. "When you open the doors, you understand what Rolls Royce is all about."
 What they didn't say: That three years of record Rolls-Royce sales suggest that the 1 percent is doing just fine even at a time of economic distress for many Americans. The company's nearly 3,600 sales worldwide in 2012 were the most in the brand's 109-year history.
 What makes it tick? Built on a scaled-down Ghost chassis, the Wraith's BMW-based 6.6-liter twin-turbo V-12 engine churns out 624 horsepower and 590 pound-feet of torque, good for a claimed 4.6-second burble from 0 to 60 miles per hour. A satellite system uses GPS data to anticipate the road ahead and choose the proper gear.
 How much, how soon? The Wraith reaches American buyers in October, at roughly $295,000 to start. Tell your friends.
 How's it look? Like the best-looking Rolls in years. In contrast to recent hulking, dour Rollers, the Wraith manages to look not just imposing, but also elegant and alive - a fantasy yacht for the ultra-rich. Shorn of center pillars, the door glass offers unimpeded views of how the other half lives. The two-tone body's lighter upper sections create beautiful tension against the darker doors and fenders.
An earlier version of this blog post misspelled the name of the director of design for Rolls-Royce. He is Giles Taylor, not Gilles Taylor.

        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango
        
Hyundai Equus: A Few Rungs Up the Social Ladder
        
Porsche 911 GT3: They'll Be Racing in the Streets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%) automobiles; Rolls-Royce Motor Cars; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

ORGANIZATION: Rolls-Royce Motor Cars

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



904 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Porsche 911 GT3: They'll Be Racing in the Streets

BYLINE: JOHN R. QUAIN


HIGHLIGHT: Porsche continues to pursue the goal of making what amounts to a civilized supercar; purists will pine for a manual gearbox. 

 BODY:
 Introduced on Wednesday, March 27: 2014 Porsche 911 GT3
 What is it? A buttoned-down update to an already impressive sports car. It's much quicker off the line than last year's GT3, but the hurdle this time for Porsche will be convincing the faithful that technology marches onward and that there's no longer a need for an on-the-floor stick.
 Is it real? Definitely, and the company expects to sell more of these GT3's than any previous version. 
 What they said: "This car bridges the gap between race car and street car," said Detlev von Platen, president and chief executive of Porsche Cars North America. "Drivers and modern technology are not opponents," he added during the introduction, alluding to the absence of a manual transmission option for the 2014 model. Porsche wants to inspire confidence in drivers (which the company hopes will increase sales).
 What they didn't say: If you drive it to the 7-Eleven, people will still stare. And there's still no cup holder. (Amen to that.) Nevertheless, the company continues to pursue the goal of making what amounts to a civilized supercar. Purists may whine about the absence of a manual gearbox, "but don't hit us over the head with a baseball bat until you drive it," Andreas Preuninger, the chief engineer of the GT3, said in an interview. (He also said, "It is a shut-up-and-drive-it thing.") Perhaps most interesting from a driving and engineering point of view is Porsche's first use of active rear-wheel steering. Below 50 miles per hour, the rear wheels steer in the opposite direction to the fronts, giving the car a shorter turning radius; at higher speeds, the rears turn in the same direction as the fronts, giving it more cornering stability, according to Mr. Preuninger.
 What makes it tick? A 3.8-liter 6-cyclinder boxer engine, redesigned from the block up, turns out 475 horsepower at 8,250 r.p.m. for claimed 0 to 60 m.p.h. acceleration in 3.3 seconds (0.6 seconds quicker than last year's car). The top speed is 195 m.p.h. (just up a bit from last year's 194). The new transmission shifts so quickly that the rear-drive GT3 gains three-quarters of the length of the car with every shift. There are seven gears and no overdrive.
 How much? How soon? The starting price is $130,400. The GT3 will arrive on American shores in November.
 How's it look? Surprisingly (or not so surprisingly) much like last year's GT3, with its fixed rear wing design. A new aero package results in some minor changes to the front end. Most of the news is beneath the skin, including an underside engine cover-diffuser for added downforce. Still, the car next to the GT3 at the Porsche display - Jerry Seinfeld's restored 1964 911 - is prettier.

        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
David Murdock of Dole Food Opens California Estate for a Concours
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango
        
Hyundai Equus: A Few Rungs Up the Social Ladder
        
Nissan Pathfinder Hybrid: Innovation but No Beauty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORTS CARS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%) automobiles; Porsche AG; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows; New Cars; sports cars

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); PORSCHE CARS NORTH AMERICA INC (56%); 7-ELEVEN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Porsche AG

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



905 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Investors vs. Occupants in the Housing Recovery

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: One big question about the sustainability of the housing recovery is whether it&#8217;s being driven by owner-occupants &#8212; the people who live in the houses they buy &#8212; or speculators. 

 BODY:
One of the big questions about the sustainability of the housing recovery is whether it's being driven by owner-occupants - the people who live in the houses they buy - or speculators. 
In the last year or so, after all, some of the big institutional investors have bought up a lot of distressed properties because they perceived the market to be undervalued, and saw some major opportunities in the rental market. Blackstone, for example, is now the biggest owner of single-family homes, having purchased about 20,000 homes across the country, most of them foreclosures.
New data released by the National Association of Realtors suggests that investors are still playing a role in the market, but their influence is down from its peak.

The chart above shows the share of monthly home sales that went to investors. The data come from the Realtors Confidence Index, which is based on about 3,000 responses each month from members of the National Association of Realtors. In February, investors accounted for about one in five purchases, which is close to the long-term average, according to Walter Molony, who works in the association's public affairs office. 
From Mr. Molony, here is the breakdown of home sales by use for 2003-11, from a separate, annual questionnaire filled out by about 2,000 home buyers each year. The 2012 numbers come out next week.
He writes:
This tracked well with findings from the Realtors Confidence Index, but digression from monthly data in the R.C.I. that began in 2011 appears to result from additional purchases outside of [Multiple Listing Service] listed property (courthouse auctions, bulk purchases, etc., outside of publicly marketed property). That pattern likely began to reverse in 2012 as foreclosure inventory, most popular with investors, declined over the course of the year.
When I went to Sacramento a couple weeks ago to write about the recovery, I found some resentment of investors, at least among buyers. Investors have helped a very depressed market recover, but they have also been outbidding owner-occupants, particularly since many investors can finance their purchases entirely in cash rather than having to wait for a loan. 
Here's a look at the share of sales that were paid for in cash, from the Realtors Confidence Index survey:
As of February, the share was about one in three, whereas Mr. Molony says that in a "normal market," all-cash transactions account for closer to 10 percent.

        
A Taste for Whole Foods (or Roman Tubs)
        
A Place That Makes New York Real Estate Look Cheap
        
New-Home Sales Soar - and Remain Low
        
Bundled Households
        
Movin' Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (72%) Real Estate and Housing (Residential)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



906 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: In the Wee Hours in Albany, the Talk Turns to Kumquats

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: In one of the stranger rhetorical runs in recent Albany memory, more than a half-dozen senators referred to kumquats in their musings about the state&#8217;s spending plan, which they approved at 4:15 a.m. Wednesday. 

 BODY:
ALBANY - The great kumquat debate began around 1 a.m. on Wednesday, when State Senator George S. Latimer, a Westchester County Democrat, likened a voluminous budget bill to a Christmas gift basket that contained some items that were desirable, and others that were not.
 "You like the shortbread cookies, but you don't like the kumquats," Mr. Latimer said. "But you have to either take the whole basket or send it back to your aunt and say, 'Sorry, I didn't really like this basket.' \x80\xAF" 
The kumquat in the budget basket, for Senator Latimer, was a proposal to raise the minimum wage, but to do it gradually and not tie it to inflation.
That was just the beginning. In one of the stranger rhetorical runs recently in Albany, more than a half-dozen senators turned to kumquats in their wee-hours musings about various aspects of the state's $141 billion spending plan, which they ultimately approved around 4:15 a.m. (The Assembly plans to vote Thursday on the budget, which is for the fiscal year that begins on Monday.)
Some lawmakers acknowledged they were not prepared for the fruity furor. 
Senator Michael N. Gianaris, a Queens Democrat, said he did not quite know what a kumquat was before the subject arose. "I looked it up; apparently it's a citrus fruit," he explained. "I don't know why there's so much hostility against it, but nonetheless, there is."
But even kumquat know-nothings seized on citrus, at least for debating purposes.
"If we're going to go with the assumption that a kumquat is a bad thing, this is one big kumquat in this revenue bill that we're dealing with," Mr. Gianaris said.
The fruit proved irresistible for senators of all persuasions. Senator Kathleen A. Marchione, a Republican from Saratoga County and an outspoken advocate of gun rights, said the state's new gun law was her kumquat. 
And Senator Gustavo Rivera, a Bronx Democrat, saying that he did not like kumquats, described one budget bill as "a bag full of kumquats." He said the deal to raise the minimum wage was "the biggest kumquat of all"; two hours later, he compared it to "slipping on a kumquat and falling in a hole, or something."
Mr. Latimer later seemed to feel some remorse for besmirching an innocent fruit (the kumquat is not mentioned in the state budget, nor in any legislation introduced this year). Speaking shortly before the Senate adjourned, he pulled his cellphone out of his breast pocket and joked that he had received a text message from the New York State Association of Kumquat Growers.
"Apparently they're not coming to my next fund-raiser," Mr. Latimer said, drawing laughter from his weary colleagues and their aides. "My apologies to anybody else who I've dragged into the Kumquat-gate of tonight."
The discussion of kumquats added some levity to an overnight session that was otherwise filled with grumbling among Democrats about why they were there in the first place, since the budget was not due for several days. One alluded wistfully to a piece of legislation he sponsored, called the Vampire Voting Act, that would forbid such overnight sessions. The senator, Terry W. Gipson, a Hudson Valley Democrat, acknowledged the kumquat chatter but said he preferred to discuss vampires.

        
Republican State Senators Indicate New Openness to Raising Minimum Wage
        
Canseco, a Former Steroid User, Backs Ban on Stimulant in Diet Pills
        
Schneiderman's Chief of Staff Is Leaving
        
Gun-Rights Advocates Rally in Albany
        
New York City Elections Are Becoming Ever More Costly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); GUN CONTROL (66%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (62%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Albany (NY); Budgets and Budgeting; Citrus Fruits; Gianaris, Michael N; Kumquats; Latimer, George S; Marchione, Kathleen A; Rivera, Gustavo; Senate; Vampires; Albany

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: Gianaris, Michael N; Latimer, George S; Marchione, Kathleen A; Rivera, Gustavo

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Albany (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



907 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Visit Mexico and Costa Rica in May

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama will meet with the leaders of Mexico, Costa Rica and other Central American countries with the aim of increasing cooperation within the Americas. 

 BODY:
In a trip aimed at reinforcing cultural, familial and economic ties with Mexico and Central America, President Obama will visit Mexico and Costa Rica in May, the White House announced Wednesday. 
The president's trip is scheduled for May 2 to 4.
In Mexico, Mr. Obama plans to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto for talks that the Mexican foreign ministry described earlier as focused on security, immigration and trade. The two leaders, who spoke by phone on Wednesday, last met when Mr. Peña Nieto visited the White House in November, shortly before he was sworn in to a six-year term.
The White House said Mr. Obama "welcomes the opportunity to discuss ways to deepen our economic and commercial partnership and further our engagement on the broad array of bilateral, regional and global issues that connect our two countries."
Mr. Obama will focus on the same issues in Costa Rica, where he plans to meet with President Laura Chinchilla and the leaders of other Central American countries and the Dominican Republic.
The United States maintains deep trade ties with Mexico under the North American Free Trade Agreement, and it is a partner in combating drug trafficking there and in Central America.
Mr. Obama would be the first American president to visit Costa Rica since Bill Clinton visited in May 1997, to meet with then-President José María Figueres. Mr. Obama and Ms. Chinchilla last met in April at the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia.
In an interview released Wednesday, President Obama told the Spanish-language network Telemundo that he was anticipating the trip.
"I'm looking forward to having a couple of days of important consultations and emphasizing, underscoring, how important it is for us within this Western Hemisphere to be able to strengthen our economic ties," he said. "Because that will be good for all the parties concerned. They'll have a greater chance of success and opportunity."

        
The Weekend Word: The Crucible
        
Obama to Name New National Monuments
        
Senate Passes Bill to Finance Government and Soften Spending Cuts
        
Obama Appoints Church-State Law Expert to Head Faith-Based Office
        
Obama Says Budget Differences Could Be 'Too Wide' for a Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); RELIGION (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (51%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (51%) Central America; Chinchilla, Laura; Costa Rica; International Trade and World Market; Mexico; Obama, Barack; Pena Nieto, Enrique; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Chinchilla, Laura; Obama, Barack; Pena Nieto, Enrique

GEOGRAPHIC: COSTA RICA (99%); MEXICO (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (72%) Central America; Costa Rica; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



908 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Stake Positions in Special Election for Massachusetts Senate Seat

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: At the first Democratic debate in the election to replace John Kerry, Representatives Stephen Lynch and Edward Markey took entirely different approaches in introducing themselves to voters. 

 BODY:
 NEEDHAM, Mass. - At the first Democratic debate in the special election to replace John Kerry in the United States Senate, Representatives Stephen Lynch and Edward Markey took entirely different approaches Wednesday night as they introduced themselves to Massachusetts voters.
 Mr. Lynch cast himself as the defender of the little guy and painted Mr. Markey as the defender of big banks, big telecommunications companies and trade treaties that shipped jobs overseas. 
 At one point, Mr. Lynch accused Mr. Markey of supporting the Wall Street bailout for banks but voting against the interest of taxpayers in the debt limit crisis. (Mr. Markey said his votes prevented an even worse economic calamity.)
 Mr. Markey was less confrontational and instead emphasized his steadfast support for issues that are important to many Democratic activists here: gun control, abortion rights and President Obama's health care law. And he repeatedly invoked the name of former Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
 When given the chance to question Mr. Lynch, Mr. Markey threw him a softball, praising his work for veterans and allowing Mr. Lynch to note that he had helped prevent the closing of three veterans' hospitals.
 The candidates have little time in which to make an impression on voters, who, polls suggest, have not tuned in to the campaign. A recent poll by WBUR, the National Public Radio affiliate, also said that while Mr. Markey was ahead of Mr. Lynch, voters had a more favorable view of Mr. Lynch.
 The Democratic debate was the second part of a doubleheader here at the studios of WCVB-TV, following a debate by the three Republican candidates. Each debate lasted 30 minutes.
 The party primaries are on April 30, and the winners of each will face off on June 25.
 The Republicans - Michael Sullivan, a former United States attorney; state Representative Dan Winslow; and Gabriel Gomez, a businessman and former Navy SEAL - were meeting for the second time and found it more difficult to distinguish themselves from one another.
 In a display of what it means to be a Republican in deep blue Massachusetts, they all spoke favorably of same-sex marriage and supported overturning the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as between one man and one woman. The act was the subject of arguments Wednesday before the Supreme Court.
But they also all spoke against the Obama health care law, which is popular here, suggesting that there may be more leeway for Massachusetts Republicans to side with their national party on fiscal issues than on social issues.
 One of the striking differences between the Republican and Democratic debates was that the Democrats are both in Congress and have voting records to defend on the big issues of the day. None of the Republicans has served in Washington before - Mr. Gomez is a newcomer to politics altogether - and do not have votes that can be used against them or that can help define them. 
 Mr. Sullivan sought to underscore Mr. Gomez's lack of political or government experience, grilling him at one point about his history with managing budgets and making cuts.
 Mr. Gomez said he had sat on the board of a large company that was responsible for managing a budget of $3 billion. But he indicated that he thought his life experience was more valuable. "People don't want someone who's been in politics for a good part of their life," he said. "I've got leadership experience, and I've been effective my whole life."
 Among the five candidates, there seemed to be three positions on abortion, without regard to party. Mr. Markey and Mr. Winslow said they supported abortion rights without qualification. Mr. Lynch and Mr. Gomez called themselves "pro-life" but said they believed Roe v. Wade was settled law. Mr. Sullivan called himself "pro-life" without qualification.

        
Markey and Lynch Outline Visions in Vying for Massachusetts Senate Seat
        
In Massachusetts, House Democrats Vie to Replace Kerry in Senate
        
Senate Debate Introduces 3 Republicans to Massachusetts Voters
        
Tagg Romney Declines Senate Bid in Massachusetts
        
Brown Decides Against Massachusetts Senate Bid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); GUN CONTROL (68%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (67%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%); MARRIAGE (65%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); ABORTION (54%) Elections, Senate; Lynch, Stephen F (1955- ); Markey, Edward J; Massachusetts; The Caucus

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (94%); STEPHEN F LYNCH (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); TED KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Lynch, Stephen F (1955- ); Markey, Edward J

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



909 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: What Was the Family's 'Least Bad Decade'?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Comparing family stability in the 1990s and the 2000s. 

 BODY:
During yesterday's excitement surrounding the Supreme Court and gay marriage, David Frum linked back to his 2011 column explaining why he had changed his mind on same-sex wedlock. Given my own fascination (obsession?) with family structure in America, I was struck by this passage:
Since 1997, same-sex marriage has evolved from talk to fact. 
If people like me had been right, we should have seen the American family become radically more unstable over the subsequent decade and a half.
Instead - while American family stability has continued to deteriorate - it has deteriorated much more slowly than it did in the 1970s and 1980s before same-sex marriage was ever seriously thought of.
By the numbers, in fact, the 2000s were the least bad decade for American family stability since the fabled 1950s.
Frum and I had a short exchange about this on Twitter, but I thought I'd offer a longer-form version of my point. Basically, the case for the 2000s as "the least bad decade" rests on two data points: the percentage of single-parent households was no longer rising, and the divorce rate stayed lower than in the 1970s and early 1980s. But those trends notwithstanding, I think you can make a much stronger case for the 1990s as a the least bad decade, and for the '00s as a return to a downward, destabilizing trend.
That's because the share of single-parent households is ultimately a less meaningful indicator of family solidity - and its beneficial consequences for children - than the share of children living in married households with both their biological parents. (To quote the National Marriage Project, "Children who grow up with cohabiting couples tend to have worse life outcomes compared to those growing up with married couples ... [and] children in stepfamilies, according to a substantial and growing body of social science evidence, fare no better in life than children in single-parent families.") And if you dig into the footnotes in the Pew study linked by Frum's column, which seems to show the percentage of fathers living with their children stabilizing in the 2000s, it looks like "father" is being defined to include any male adult whose live-in partner has a child. If, on the other hand, you focus on the percentage of children living with married two-parent families, then the 2000s suddenly look much worse.
Here I'd invite readers to examine figures 2, 3, 8, 12, 13 and 14 at the back of this year's National Marriage Report, all of which tell a similar story: The marriage rate's decline accelerated in the 2000s compared to the 1990s; so did the rise in the rate of out-of-wedlock births; and so did the rise in the rate of cohabitation, with and without children. (Interestingly, there's also some evidence that the divorce rate stopped falling over the last decade, though this is complicated by problems with the data sources that I'm not competent to adjudicate.) Nor can these trends be chalked up to the shock of the Great Recession: Per the CDC, unmarried childbearing "resumed a steep climb since 2002," and the cohabitation rate was also headed sharply upwardbefore the financial crisis and its aftermath.
As many authors have noted, the recent retreat from marriage is mostly a middle American phenomenon, and it does seem like the Clinton-era stabilization of family life for the upper classes persisted into the Bush and Obama eras as well. So that can be the silver lining in this story, for conservatives (or others) looking for a reason to be sanguine about contemporary debates: The negative trends of the '00s notwithstanding, the understanding of marriage that we've increasingly embraced, in law and culture alike, does seem to work out well for a portion of the population. The unresolved question is whether it can be made to work for everyone else.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PARENTS (87%); COHABITATION (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



910 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: As Sales Rise, Automakers Focus on the Luxurious

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
With the luxury vehicle market booming, automakers are rushing to fill their showrooms with expensive new models now on display at the New York auto show.
Overall vehicle sales have risen 8 percent so far this year in the United States, while the market for high-end cars and S.U.V.'s has increased by 11 percent, according to the auto research company Kelley Blue Book.
The surge in the luxury market, analysts say, is a sign that wealthy consumers sense that the nation's financial health is solidly improving in ways that reinforce a willingness to splurge on expensive new models. 
''A lot of luxury customers were waiting to see how things would shake out in the economy and the stock market,'' said Alec Gutierrez, an analyst at Kelley Blue Book. ''But they are becoming more and more confident.''
New vehicles at the auto show range from small, entry-level models like the Audi A3 that cost about $30,000, to plush sedans like the Bentley Flying Spur, with a price tag closer to $200,000.
The luxury segment is expanding in every direction. There are more compact cars sold under prestigious brand names, a growing variety of leather-and-wood trimmed S.U.V.'s, and updated models from ultraluxury carmakers like Bentley and Rolls-Royce.
The smaller models are aimed mainly at attracting what industry executives say is a growing group of younger luxury buyers, as well as more Hispanics and women, who do not want to wait until middle age to own more sophisticated cars.
''They are going to transform our industry,'' said James Farley, Ford's head of global marketing, referring to the younger market. Older buyers might consider cars like the Audi A3 too small, while younger consumers might find that those cars better fit their lifestyles and tastes.
Luxury sales generate greater profits for automakers, encouraging even the most mainstream companies to compete in expensive segments.
The Ford Motor Company, for example, is pouring money and corporate resources into reviving its staid Lincoln brand. So far, the results have been mixed, as consumers appear reluctant to pay luxury-car prices for Lincolns based on basic Ford models.
Yet Ford is pushing ahead with a complete overhaul of its Lincoln lineup in an all-out bid to capture top-end customers.
''The luxury market is growing mostly at the low end,'' said Mr. Farley, who also is Ford's senior Lincoln executive. ''And since the recession, we think people are looking for luxury in smaller sizes.''
Ford's hometown rival, General Motors, recently introduced the Cadillac ATS, a compact sedan that it believes can compete with small cars from the German luxury stalwarts Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Volkswagen's Audi unit.
Strong sales of the new ATS have helped Cadillac lift the brand's overall sales by 32 percent in the first two months of this year. On Tuesday, G.M. displayed a restyled version of its midsize Cadillac sedan, called the CTS, which goes on sale this fall.
G.M. officials said the CTS is a critical vehicle for Cadillac, which needs a full lineup of luxury models to pique the interest of loyal BMW and Mercedes owners.
''We finally have the right dimensions on the CTS to match up with the competition,'' said Eric Clough, one of the car's designers. ''It's longer, leaner and lower to the ground.''
American carmakers still have a lot of catching up to do. Mercedes and BMW are the luxury market leaders in the United States by far and are constantly adding new variations to their lineups.
One of the most distinctive new luxury cars shown was Audi's A3 sedan, a jaunty compact with a wide rectangular grille. It is the latest in a number of new products from Audi, whose sales in the United States have increased 18 percent this year.
''We set a goal of reaching 200,000 sales in the U.S. by 2020, but we're going to get there a lot sooner than that,'' said Scott Keough, president of Audi of America.
On the S.U.V. side, Honda's Acura division introduced a fresh version of its top-selling MDX model. And Land Rover, the British brand owned by the Indian industrial firm Tata, continued its aggressive expansion by showing off the new Range Rover Sport, an elegant-looking S.U.V. that costs upward of $60,000.
Analysts said competition in the luxury segment is particularly fierce because automakers have to work harder to differentiate their luxury vehicles from mass-market models. Many of the new luxury models are equipped with additional technology, including three-dimensional graphics on video displays and the latest in collision-avoidance systems. And opulence is still a factor in the most expensive models. The Bentley, for example, comes with a glass roof and hand-polished wood in the interior, as well as a choice of 17 exterior colors like ''dark cashmere.''
''The luxury manufacturers have to up the ante because a lot of regular cars now come with bells and whistles like heated steering wheels,'' said Joseph Phillippi, an executive at the consulting firm AutoTrends.
Yet no one would confuse a family sedan with something like the new Jaguar XJR -- a variation on a regular Jaguar model that has a top speed of 174 miles per hour and a sticker price of more than $100,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cadillac CTS, top, a version of General Motors' midsize Cadillac sedan
the new Jaguar XJR, center
and Land Rover's Range Rover Sport, above, on display at the New York auto show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); YOUTH MARKET (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); MARKET SIZE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); BRANDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (86%); AUDI AG (85%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); NSU (FRA) (85%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



911 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Immigration In Spotlight As Senators Tour Arizona

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
NOGALES, Ariz. -- Four United States senators came to this bustling city on the Mexican border on Wednesday searching for answers to the question that has ensnarled the debate over immigration reform: How secure is that border?
They met Border Patrol agents, hovered over the region by helicopter to appreciate its challenges and magnitude, and visited one of the ports of entry here, where people and cargo cross back and forth all day and night.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, whose office organized the tour, said that while there has been progress, the border ''is still not as secure as we want it to be or expect it to be.'' 
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who was visiting the border for the first time, said the tour helped deepen an understanding of the region, but that there were ''many other things we have to do as well,'' like controlling the flow of people coming into the country and providing a path to citizenship for ''these 11 million immigrants who are in the shadows.''
They are among the eight senators -- four Republicans and four Democrats -- who are working through the Congressional recess to shape a comprehensive immigration-reform bill that they plan to introduce next month.
Resolving the security question has been among the senators' top priorities -- it is a necessity if they are to persuade conservative politicians to endorse their plan -- and two new studies have found that the reality on the ground is complicated, with the communities on both sides of the border bound together in ways that defy traditional notions of home, country and citizenship.
For some legislators involved in the immigration discussions in Washington, Mexico is an adversary of sorts, its border towns and cities regarded as staging grounds for migrants poised to sneak into the United States, as hide-outs for criminals running human- and drug-smuggling operations, and as drop-off points for people that the United States deports.
One of the reports, part of an analysis by Arizona State University's North American Center for Transborder Studies and the Woodrow Wilson Center's Mexico Institute, due for release in May, paints a different picture. It found that transnational family ties are the glue that binds neighboring communities even though they are divided by a fence.
Its author, Francisco Lara Valencia, made his point by citing local economic indicators: an increase of 10 percent in the activities of maquiladoras, or manufacturing plants, in Mexican border cities that translates into a rise in employment on the United States side through expanded production, transportation needs and retail trade.
''Many new businesses in U.S. border towns are being created by Mexican entrepreneurs,'' said Lara Valencia, an assistant professor at the School of Transborder Studies at Arizona State. He added that ''the retail sector in these places depends critically on Mexican cross-border shopping'' like the discount stores that dot the downtown here.
The other study, by the Center for Latin American Studies at the University of Arizona, released Thursday, concluded that many migrants who are deported feel they left behind their home as well as a chance for a better life.
This ''emotional connection,'' as described by one of the researchers, Jeremy Slack, a doctoral student at the School of Geography and Development at the university, is the single strongest predictor of who among the deported migrants will seek to return to the United States.
According to the report, financed by the Ford Foundation, about 60 percent of the respondents said they planned to try crossing the border again in the near future.
The reasons were clear: of the 1,113 recently deported migrants who were interviewed at ports of entry and in shelters in six border communities in Mexico, roughly 300 of them had children under the age of 18 who were American citizens.
One in three of the migrants -- mostly men with a median of eight years of formal education -- said they considered the United States their home.
Wages for such low-skilled workers have emerged as a point of contention between business leaders and labor groups whose needs the senators have considered as they have worked on their legislation. As he made his way to the border on Wednesday, Senator Schumer talked by phone to Thomas J. Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, trying to come up with a deal that would be acceptable to business.
In the afternoon, Mr. Schumer met with immigration advocates in Phoenix to hear their stories.
At the news conference here, Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, who is among the eight senators working on changes to immigration law, cautioned, ''Not everybody is going to get everything they want in this bill.''
Arizona, Mr. Bennet said, has figured in almost every one of the meetings the senators have had, and Mr. Schumer defined the state as ''ground zero'' in the battles over illegal immigration because of the amount of human- and drug-smuggling there.
Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, told reporters that beyond resolving security challenges, any changes in the law must foster commerce between the United States and Mexico.
The senators offered only a few clues to the legislation they have been drafting. Mr. McCain said it draws a distinction between drug smugglers and ''individuals who are simply trying to cross over here so they can improve their lives,'' though he stressed that there must be a legal way for them to do that.
He suggested the need for increased security along the 2,000-mile boundary, not by adding to the 21,000 agents on patrol, but by using more technology in a region that is already guarded by cameras, sensors and drones.
Mr. Schumer said the bill would offer ways to measure security and parameters that must be met before illegal immigrants could apply for citizenship.
''Passing this bill is going to be hard,'' he said. But being at the border, he said, could make the difference in convincing his colleagues that the timing -- and their approach -- is right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SMUGGLING (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



912 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | NORTHEAST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts: Boston Mayor Is Said To Not Run Again

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Thomas M. Menino, the longest-serving mayor in Boston history, has decided not to seek re-election this year, according to The Boston Globe. Mr. Menino, 70, who has been mayor for two decades, is planning to announce his decision on Thursday at Faneuil Hall, the newspaper said. He was hospitalized for two months late last year with a variety of ailments. Recent polling showed that while he could win re-election, a majority of voters did not want him to run again. The longevity of his tenure and his bowing out on a high note, with the city enjoying an economic renaissance, are earning him comparisons to Ted Williams, the Red Sox star who left at the top of his game. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



913 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Once More Through the Revolving Door for Justice's Breuer

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Coming off a grueling four-year stint at the Justice Department, Lanny A. Breuer is poised to make a soft landing in the private sector.
Covington & Burling, a prominent law firm, plans to announce on Thursday that Mr. Breuer will be its vice chairman. The firm created the role especially for Mr. Breuer, a Washington insider who most recently led the Justice Department's investigation into the financial crisis. 
For Mr. Breuer, who will now shift to defending large corporations, Covington is familiar turf. He previously spent nearly two decades there.
''There's a strong emotional pull to the firm,'' Mr. Breuer, who departed as the Justice Department's criminal division chief on March 1, said in an interview. ''It's my professional home.''
Mr. Breuer is expected to earn about $4 million in his first year at Covington. In addition to representing clients, he will serve as an ambassador of sorts for the firm as it seeks to grow overseas.
The move is his latest turn through Washington's revolving door, the symbolic portal connecting government service and private practice. Mr. Breuer, who began his career as an assistant district attorney in Manhattan and later represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment hearings, is joining Covington for the third time.
Like Mr. Breuer, Covington operates at the nexus of Washington and Wall Street. It has represented several financial clients facing federal scrutiny, including the New York Stock Exchange, JPMorgan Chase and the former chief executive of IndyMac.
Such relationships could arouse suspicion among consumer advocates. Mary Jo White, who has been both a federal prosecutor and a defense lawyer, faces similar questions as she prepares to run the Securities and Exchange Commission.
But another school of thought holds that the revolving door instills prosecutors with valuable knowledge of Wall Street. And under ethics rules, Mr. Breuer cannot work for Covington on any case he handled at the Justice Department and must wait two years before facing off with the agency.
''What people dismissively talk about as the revolving door allows people to be better public servants and private litigants,'' he said. ''I believe I was a better assistant attorney general because of my deep experience in the private sector.''
Mr. Breuer's Justice Department tenure came at a critical period: the aftermath of the financial crisis.
While critics of Wall Street blamed Mr. Breuer for not bringing cases against the banks and executives at the center of the crisis, they praised him for the prosecution of R. Allen Stanford, who was sentenced to 110 years in prison for a Ponzi scheme, and for the criminal case against BP in response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. His biggest victory came last year, when a Japanese subsidiary of UBS pleaded guilty to manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. It was the first unit of a big global bank to plead guilty in two decades.
''We're proud to welcome him home,'' said Timothy C. Hester, Covington's chairman.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lanny Breuer will rejoin Covington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (86%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); ETHICS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SENTENCING (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); IMPEACHMENT (65%); OIL SPILLS (50%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: COVINGTON & BURLING LLP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (79%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (65%); GULF OF MEXICO (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



914 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Study Challenges Fuel Subsidies

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Developing and industrialized countries should rein in energy subsidies that totaled $1.9 trillion in 2011 to ease budgetary pressures and free resources for public spending in areas like education and health care, International Monetary Fund economists said in a research paper published Wednesday. 
In the paper, ''Energy Subsidy Reform -- Lessons and Implications,'' the economists reviewed a database of 176 countries and analyzed ways to change energy subsidies by examining case studies of 22 countries.
In 2011, energy subsidies intended to contain energy prices for consumers accounted for 2.5 percent of global gross domestic product, or 8 percent of all government revenue, the fund said.
''The paper shows that for some countries the fiscal weight of energy subsidies is growing so large that budget deficits are becoming unmanageable and threaten the stability of the economy,'' David Lipton, first deputy managing director of the fund, said in a speech on Wednesday.
The paper said that subsidies were expensive for governments, and that, instead of helping consumers, they detracted from increased investment in infrastructure, education and health care, which would help the poor more directly.
Subsidies have been a counterproductive way to help the poor because they are more beneficial to the rich, who consume more energy, the fund said. The richest 20 percent of households in low- and middle-income countries received six times more in fuel subsidies than the lowest 20 percent, the fund said.
According to its research, 20 countries have pretax energy subsidies that exceed 5 percent of gross domestic product. The top three subsidizers are the United States at $502 billion, China at $279 billion, and Russia at $116 billion.
In advanced economies, like the United States, removing subsidies for fossil fuels could inject revenue into government coffers, the fund said.
''Insufficient energy taxation, including in the largest economy in the world, the United States, is a problem not only for the environment, but many advanced economies are in need of additional resources to support the effort to lower public debt, which is very high now in those economies,'' said Carlo Cottarelli, director of the fund's fiscal affairs department.
Over the longer term, limiting energy subsidies could spur stronger economic growth because it would encourage a more efficient distribution of resources and encourage investment in energy-efficient alternative technologies, Mr. Lipton said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CASE STUDIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



915 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Philippines Manages Its Way to Top Tier of Credit

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and FLOYD WHALEY

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The Philippines was once the sick man of Asia: badly managed, corrupt and poor.
Years of efforts by the government of President Benigno S. Aquino III paid off Wednesday, when the country received, for the first time, an investment-grade credit rating from one of the world's major ratings agencies.
The move, from Fitch Ratings, represented an important vote of confidence for the Southeast Asian island nation, which has been growing at a rapid clip for the past few years but whose per capita income is barely one-quarter that of the United States. The economy remains heavily reliant on money sent home from Filipinos working overseas, called remittances. 
''This means much more than lower interest rates on our debt and more investors buying our securities,'' Mr. Aquino said in a statement. ''This is an institutional affirmation of our good governance agenda: Sound fiscal management and integrity-based leadership has led to a resurgent economy in the face of uncertainties in the global arena. It serves to encourage even greater interest and investments in our country.''
Fitch Ratings cited ''improvements in fiscal management'' begun under Mr. Aquino's predecessor, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, as one of the reasons for its decision to lift the Philippines' rating from junk status, increasing it one notch, to BBB- from BB+. The rating applies to the country's long-term debt denominated in foreign currency.
The upgrade, Fitch said, reflected a persistent current account surplus, underpinned by remittance inflows, while a ''strong policy-making framework'' -- notably effective inflation management by the central bank -- has supported the overall economy in recent years.
Investors cheered the news of the upgrade, sending the main stock market index up 2.74 percent.
The upgrade had been widely expected for some time, helping turn the Philippines into something of an investment darling last year. The Philippine stock market soared more than 30 percent in 2012, one of the best performances in the world, and has risen an additional 17.8 percent so far this year -- the third best in Asia after Japan and Vietnam. The Philippine peso has climbed 7 percent against the dollar since the start of 2012.
Foreign direct investment, likewise, rose 8 percent last year to $2 billion, from $1.9 billion in 2011, as investor confidence in the country has solidified since Mr. Aquino took office nearly three years ago.
''This is an upgrade that's overdue,'' said Norio Usui, country economist for the Philippines at the Asian Development Bank, which is based in Manila. ''Financial markets have already fully incorporated it. Bold governance reforms under the current administration have changed consumers' and investors' sentiment. Prudent macroeconomic management has laid the foundation for the strong growth. This rating will give investors the confidence they need to give the Philippines a much closer look.''
The country's promising demographics also seem to point toward bright economic prospects. While many Asian nations, including Japan, South Korea and China, are aging rapidly, the Philippine population of 94 million is one of the youngest in the region. About one-third of Filipinos are 14 or younger, according to World Bank data. That compares with 19 percent in China and 13 percent in Japan.
''Should the government implement policy to educate and provide jobs for the burgeoning population, the Philippines could capitalize on its demographic advantages to raise economic output,'' economists at HSBC wrote in a research report.
HSBC forecasts that the Philippine economy will expand 5.9 percent this year, slightly less than the 6.6 percent recorded in 2012 but well ahead of the 3.9 percent in 2011. Fitch Ratings on Wednesday estimated growth between 5 percent and 5.5 percent in coming years.
At the same time, the country faces considerable challenges. Infrastructure in much of the country remains poor and corruption widespread, despite progress under Mr. Aquino's administration. Growth has generated pockets of urban prosperity surrounded by vast areas of grinding poverty and few jobs.
''While we may finally be treading the right path towards inclusive and sustainable development,'' Loren Legarda, a Philippine senator, said in reaction to the upgrade, ''the challenge remains for us to ensure that there will be overall improvement in the lives of majority of Filipinos.''
Renato M. Reyes Jr., secretary general of the left-leaning social organization Bayan, said the upgrade was ''meaningless'' as far as the poor were concerned. ''It will not necessarily generate jobs and lead to sustainable growth,'' he said. ''It looks good only on paper and will only benefit big business. Expect Aquino to milk this for the 2013 elections.''
Recent developments in the southern Philippines, moreover, have highlighted the differences between the prosperous and peaceful north and the impoverished and unstable south. In February, gunmen from the southern Philippines caused a major security crisis in Malaysia when they took over an isolated village in the state of Sabah. Mr. Aquino has faced significant domestic criticism of his handling of the crisis.
Richard Foyston, the chairman of Navis Capital, which is based in Kuala Lumpur and has about $3 billion in shares and private equity investments in Southeast Asia, cautioned that the Philippines' economy remained highly dependent on household spending and on remittances from Filipinos working abroad.
Household spending makes up a big proportion of the Philippines' economy because spending on infrastructure and industry has for years lagged behind the country's peers in Southeast Asia. Remittances, meanwhile, rose 6.3 percent to $21.4 billion last year, the equivalent of 8 percent of gross domestic product.
''That fills a gap, but it is a sign of an imbalance,'' Mr. Foyston said, referring to the remittances. ''The capability and talent and willingness to work and invest, all those things that are good for an economy, have not been put to work at home in the Philippines.''
In May, elections will be held in the two houses of the Philippine legislature. Mr. Aquino, who is not up for re-election, has campaigned aggressively for his legislative allies, who are crucial for continuing his reform agenda.
Floyd Whaley reported from Manila. Neil Gough contributed reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INWARD INVESTMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (62%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (60%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BENIGNO AQUINO III (90%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) PHILIPPINES (98%); ASIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



916 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Didn't Like Our Play? You're Right. Very Sorry.

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Never apologize, never explain: the familiar aphorism is usually invoked after the fact, when the apologizing or explaining has been done, to deleterious effect. It sprang to mind again as I read the letter that Tim Sanford, the artistic director of Playwrights Horizons, sent to some subscribers of that Off Broadway theater, offering a long and eloquent explanation (with a spoonful or two of apology) of the theater's decision to mount ''The Flick,'' the new play by Annie Baker.
A gentle study of the relationships among three workers at a dingy movie theater in Massachusetts, the play opened to largely rapturous reviews this month and subsequently won the prestigious Susan Smith Blackburn Prize. But it has caused consternation among some of the theater's patrons. Many have left at intermission after venting their irritation and in some cases threatening to cancel their subscriptions. For the first time in his 15-year stewardship of the theater Mr. Sanford felt the need to calm ruffled feathers or at least make a spirited case for the theater's right to ruffle them now and then. 
The e-mail message, sent only to the 3,000 subscribers who had already seen the play, runs to almost a thousand words: virtually a novella in this era of ''c-u-l8r'' quick-bite communication. I rather savored its length, given that the chief problem some theatergoers have with the play is its length: three hours. If Mr. Sanford's patrons don't have the patience for a play that, by the standards of theater from the Elizabethan era onward, hardly qualifies as epic length, would they really want to read a long defense of it?
In an interview with my colleague Patrick Healy, Mr. Sanford said that the letter was ''not an apology,'' and its length speaks to the difficulty of what Mr. Sanford perceived to be the task at hand: ''I wanted to explain my thinking to our subscribers and also explain our mission as a writer's theater, in hopes of making this a teachable moment,'' he said.
In the letter Mr. Sanford tap-dances between expressing understanding for those who found the play not to their liking and a carefully marshaled argument for its merits. He expresses affection and support for the play repeatedly, but also seems to back away from it at other points, as when he reveals that the length took him and the director by surprise (really?), and that cuts had been considered and then rejected.
I don't underestimate the responsibilities that Mr. Sanford and fellow nonprofit theater executives face: raising funds and balancing budgets, keeping the subscriber base healthy, all while engaging in the delicate task of producing art -- and, in the case of this indispensable company, exclusively new work, as opposed to proven revivals.
And yet the e-mail sets a disheartening precedent, and aspects of it send out alarming signals that Mr. Sanford is more worried about coddling his audience than simply presenting theater that he believes in, art that might open theatergoers' minds to new forms and styles of writing for the stage.
Most unfortunate was Mr. Sanford's inclusion of long quotations from a previously published interview with Ms. Baker in which she explains the thinking behind ''The Flick.'' This playwright, whose prior play ''Circle Mirror Transformation'' was also produced by Playwrights Horizons -- on its smaller stage, where it was seen by fewer subscribers -- addresses the issue of the drama's gentle pace and passages of silence, another bone of contention.
In the context of the e-mail this is putting an artist in the uncomfortable position of having to defend his or her work. In my view -- and I expect in Ms. Baker's -- art speaks most eloquently for itself, and if what it has to say doesn't strike a chord with people, then no amount of elucidation is likely to help. (Edward Albee has often reverted to a wry riposte when asked what a particular play of his is ''about'': ''About two hours,'' he'll say.)
At another point in the e-mail Mr. Sanford says, ''Did we know we had programmed a three-hour play when we chose it? No.'' So is he saying that had he known it would run that long, he might have rejected it?
Count me among those who believe ''The Flick'' would have benefited from tightening. But it's disturbing to think that a nonprofit theater dedicated to new work would consider a play's length as a deal breaker. Many terrific plays are 90 minutes; so are many bad ones. Many great plays take up a full three hours: that Shakespeare guy wrote lots of 'em. (Before the Baker haters get all splenetic, no, I am not suggesting she is the new Shakespeare.)
Playwrights today already feel their imaginations hemmed in by the economics of theater production: A new play that requires more than a handful of actors has a tough shot at getting a first-class production. If running time is to be added to the list of authorial no-no's (and I suspect it already has), the American theater will be in danger of shrink-wrapping itself into triviality, or obsolescence. (I'm often struck by the odd fact that, as plays are get shorter and smaller, movies get more bloated, perhaps because directors wield power in Hollywood that theater writers cannot hope to possess.)
Another phrase in the e-mail that raised a red flag: ''I have to admit I was not totally prepared for it to be such a polarizing show.'' Later Mr. Sanford asserts that he has, ahem, no problem on that front, saying he would prefer to evoke ''passionate dislike'' rather than a ''dispassionate shrug.'' And yet this inevitably strikes a protesting-too-much tone. If he feels comfortable producing a play that polarizes audiences, why the need to justify it?
Toward the end Mr. Sanford writes, ''Our hope is to cultivate an audience that trusts the underlying integrity of our decision-making process.'' But I worry that Mr. Sanford's discomfort with his audiences' reaction to the play might threaten that very integrity: an artistic director should ideally help lead an audience to appreciate new directions, not canvass its already formed taste.
In the end Mr. Sanford's willingness to produce the play on his main stage persuades me of his honorable intentions. Future seasons will put his independent mindedness to the test. Without challenging work like ''The Flick,'' our strongest nonprofit theaters could devolve into pallid imitations of Broadway, where experimentation is as rare as a rainbow in the desert.
And by the way, for those who fled at intermission, fulminating away, here's a morsel of consolation in the form of a funny quotation I once came across in an Angela Thirkell novel, from a patron leaving ''King Lear,'' no less, well before the title character had breathed his last: ''If there is one pleasure on earth which surpasses all others, it is leaving a play before the end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louisa Krause, left, and Aaron Clifton Moten in ''The Flick,'' a new work by Annie Baker at Playwrights Horizons in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); FILM (77%); THEATER (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); BUDGETS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



917 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Cuts Off the Remaining Military Hot Lines With South Korea

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea cut off the last remaining military hot lines with South Korea on Wednesday, accusing President Park Geun-hye of South Korea of pursuing the same hard-line policy of her predecessor that the North blamed for a prolonged chill in inter-Korean relations.
Amid tensions over the North's third nuclear test last month and ensuing United Nations sanctions, North Korea had already shut down Red Cross hot lines with South Korea and a communication line with the American military command in South Korea. But the North's decision to cut off military hot lines with South Korea on Wednesday was taken more seriously in Seoul because the two Koreas have used those four telephone lines to control daily cross-border traffic of workers and cargo traveling to the North Korean border town of Kaesong. 
The two countries run a joint industrial park at Kaesong, the last symbol of inter-Korean cooperation that has survived the political tensions of recent years. Seoul officials said 887 South Korean workers were in Kaesong on Wednesday. The traffic was running normally on Wednesday and Thursday morning, with long lines of trucks crawling through the border crossing, South Korean officials said, indicating that the North Korean military did not go so far as to stop cross-border economic exchanges.
''There do not exist any dialogue channel and communications means between the D.P.R.K. and the U.S. and between the North and the South,'' said a North Korean statement sent to the South Korean military by telephone and later carried by the North's official Korean Central News Agency. ''Not words but only arms will work on the U.S. and the South Korean puppet forces.''
D.P.R.K. stands for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the North's official name.
The North's action came a day after its top military command ordered all of its missile and artillery units to be on ''the highest alert'' and ready to strike the United States and South Korea. It also vowed to take ''substantial military actions'' to retaliate against joint United States-South Korean military drills, which involved American B-52 bomber sorties over South Korea.
The last time North Korea severed all military hot lines, during joint United States-South Korean military drills in 2009, it allowed an inter-Korean economic liaison office in Kaesong to serve as a communication channel with Seoul, and South Korean workers could commute to Kaesong. The two Koreas continue to maintain hot lines between their civil aviation authorities.
''Under the situation where a war may break out any moment, there is no need to keep North-South military communications,'' the North said on Wednesday.
The North Korean action came shortly after the South's president, Ms. Park, stressed both firmness and reciprocity in her nation's policy toward the North.
''If North Korea provokes or does things that harm peace, we must make sure that it gets nothing but will pay the price, while if it keeps its promises, the South should do the same,'' Ms. Park said during a briefing with her government's top diplomats and North Korea policy makers. ''Without rushing, and in the same way we would lay one brick after another, we must develop South-North relations step by step, based on trust, and create sustainable peace.''
Her new unification minister, Ryoo Kihl-jae, South Korea's point man on North Korea, later told reporters that his government was willing to consider lifting trade embargoes imposed on the North after the deadly sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, but not before North Korea takes responsibility for the sinking, which killed 46 South Korean sailors.
Seoul blamed a North Korean torpedo attack, but the government in Pyongyang insists that it had nothing to do with it.
''We keep our door open for dialogue,'' Mr. Ryoo said.
But on Wednesday, the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea, the North Korean counterpart to Mr. Ryoo's ministry, berated Ms. Park for warning a day earlier that the Pyongyang government could ensure its survival only when it stops building nuclear weapons while its people go hungry.
''This time her remarks have gone beyond the line,'' the committee said.
It said Ms. Park's recent comments were ''utterly shocking'' compared with her earlier indications that she would not maintain the hard-line policy of her predecessor, Lee Myung-bak, whom she replaced on Feb. 25.
''If she keeps to the road of confrontation like traitor Lee, defying the warnings of the D.P.R.K., she will meet a miserable ruin,'' the committee said.
Also Wednesday, the North's main ruling-party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, said it planned ''substantial military actions,'' including ''pre-emptive nuclear strikes'' against the United States and South Korea.
Despite its successful launching of a three-stage rocket in December, however, ''North Korea doesn't have the capability to carry out this latest threat to attack U.S. bases'' in Hawaii, the United States mainland and Guam using long-range missiles, said James Hardy, the Asia Pacific editor for IHS Jane's Defense Weekly.
The Pentagon recently announced that it would ramp up its missile defense on the West Coast and Alaska, citing the threat of North Korea's KN-08 missiles, which were unveiled during a military parade in Pyongyang last April.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers from the South Korean Army conducted a patrol on Wednesday near the inter-Korean truce village of Panmunjom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHN YOUNG-JOON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); POLITICS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



918 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Debt Problems Stir Wall Street Worry

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Renewed worries about Europe's debt crisis weighed on the stock market on Wednesday and held the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index back from reaching a nominal high.
Investors are watching to see if Cyprus can shore up its banking system. They are also concerned about Italy, where political parties are struggling to form a new government.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.92 point to 1,562.85, less than three points short of its high set in October 2007. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.49 points to close at 14,526.16, a loss of 0.2 percent. It had dropped as much as 120 points in morning trading, then spent the rest of the day climbing back.
The Nasdaq composite index edged up 4.04 points, or 0.1 percent, to 3,256.52.
Bad news from Europe and good news from the United States have tossed the stock market around over the last week. Stocks slumped on Monday as Cyprus scrambled to rescue its banks. They rallied on Tuesday on stronger home prices and an increase in factory orders.
''There are still plenty of worries about the banking system'' in Europe, said J. J. Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist at TD Ameritrade. ''But the U.S. really is on a nice little roll.''
Cyprus is preparing to reopen its banks on Thursday after a nearly two-week shutdown. An international bailout requires people with large bank balances to help pay for the rescue.
In Italy, a leading political party failed in its attempt to form a new government. The stalemate has raised fears that the country will be unable to manage its deep debts. Italy has one of the largest economies of the 17 countries that use the euro.
Worries also hit Europe's bond markets especially hard. Borrowing rates for Italy and Spain shot higher, a sign of weaker confidence in their financial health. Rates for Germany and France, two of Europe's more stable countries, sank as traders shifted money into their bonds.
Four of the 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500 index edged higher. Utilities and health care, which investors tend to buy when they want to play it safe, made the biggest gains.
Health care is the best-performing industry in the S.& P. this year, up 14 percent. That compares with a 10 percent rise for the S.& P. 500.
Kim Forrest, a senior equity analyst at Fort Pitt Capital, said it appeared that many investors were treating certain stocks as if they were bonds.
''There's a recognition that bonds are overpriced, so people are moving into health care and utilities that pay a nice dividend,'' she said. ''Those are pretty boring investments, and by that I mean their prices don't move a lot.''
News about Italy also helped drive traders into the safety of United States government bonds, pushing benchmark yields to their lowest level this month. The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 19/32, to 101 13/32, while its yield dropped to 1.85 percent, from 1.91 percent late Tuesday.
Among the stocks on the move, Cliffs Natural Resources, an iron ore mining company, plunged 14 percent, the biggest loss in the S.& P. 500. Analysts warned that falling iron ore prices would most likely sink the company's stock. Cliffs fell $2.97 to $18.46.
Science Applications International surged 5 percent after the security and communications technology provider reported a fourth-quarter profit that was better than analysts were expecting. The company also announced a special dividend of $1 a share, and its stock gained 50 cents, to $13.32.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BONDS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); POLITICS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOME PRICES (66%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (55%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



919 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Banks Seek to Overturn Judge's Ruling in a Mortgage Case

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
The nation's largest banks, facing a torrent of lawsuits over shoddy mortgage securities, are pushing to overturn a series of tough rulings in an important case.
In a rare move, 15 banks -- including Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and UBS -- filed a motion in Federal District Court in Manhattan late Tuesday night to throw out a series of decisions by Judge Denise L. Cote, according to a copy of the court filing. In doing so, the financial institutions are aiming to broaden the amount of evidence they can gather in the hopes of quashing the lawsuit.
The rulings, the banks argue, are so ''gravely prejudicial'' that the firms had no choice, a step that was not ''taken lightly.'' 
The case could have costly implications.
In 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, accused the banks of duping the housing giants into buying $200 billion of mortgage securities that ultimately imploded during the financial crisis. On Wall Street, the lawsuit is considered a critical litmus test for how successful the banks will be in stanching their losses from the mortgage litigation.
The banks have been aggressively trying to thwart the lawsuit. In November, Judge Cote denied requests by the banks to toss out the lawsuit altogether.
Now, the banks are trying to reverse her rulings that limit the amount of so-called discovery they can collect, including depositions and internal documents. The decisions, according to the court filing, unfairly constricts the banks, undercuts their ability to fight the lawsuit and is ''grossly inequitable.''
In an order in May 2012, Judge Cote ruled that the banks could take a total of only 20 depositions, or interviews, from current and former employees at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the housing agency. The court filing claims that the limited scope of the interviews leaves the banks without a full understanding of Fannie's and Freddie's operations.
By comparison, under the judge's ruling, the Federal Housing Finance Agency can gather 400 depositions. The ruling also prevents the banks from gathering additional information from a major unit within the mortgage finance firms that evaluated home loans before they were packaged and sliced into the complex investments.
''This structure creates an extraordinarily uneven playing field that deprives petitioners of the right to confront the claims against them, while giving F.H.F.A. a distinct advantage,'' the banks' filing says.
Judge Cote reaffirmed the rules governing discovery in a separate order filed last month. In that order, the judge reiterated that ''defendants as a group may take 20 depositions of F.H.F.A.'' Even the housing agency proposed a more generous deposition cap of 40 total, the banks say.
The banks assert in the court filing that the limitations will hobble their defenses while unfairly letting the housing agency proceed with its case. The decision, the filing says, will ultimately force the banks to settle.
Judge Cote did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
The move is the latest effort by big banks to put the mortgage mess -- and the related legal headaches -- behind them.
In recent years, the banks have been overwhelmed with lawsuits filed by federal and state authorities, as well as private investors. The lawsuits center on a dismal chapter in banks' histories when Wall Street sold billions of dollars of subprime mortgages that soured, causing the banks and investors to incur vast losses.
In the latest salvo, Citigroup agreed this month to pay $730 million over accusations that the bank deceived investors in securities backed by mortgage loans. Citigroup did not admit wrongdoing.
The lawsuits show no signs of abating. In October, federal prosecutors in Manhattan accused Bank of America of fraud, claiming the firm's subprime lender Countrywide Financial churned out loans at such a fast clip that quality controls were almost entirely flouted.
Analysts say the mortgage-related litigation is among the greatest threats to the industry's profit. In the fourth quarter, Citigroup's profit was eroded by a $1.3 billion legal bill.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); PETITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



920 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: States Shifting Aid for Schools To the Families

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- A growing number of lawmakers across the country are taking steps to redefine public education, shifting the debate from the classroom to the pocketbook. Instead of simply financing a traditional system of neighborhood schools, legislators and some governors are headed toward funneling public money directly to families, who would be free to choose the kind of schooling they believe is best for their children, be it public, charter, private, religious, online or at home.
On Tuesday, after a legal fight, the Indiana Supreme Court upheld the state's voucher program as constitutional. This month, Gov. Robert Bentley of Alabama signed tax-credit legislation so that families can take their children out of failing public schools and enroll them in private schools, or at least in better-performing public schools.
In Arizona, which already has a tax-credit scholarship program, the Legislature has broadened eligibility for education savings accounts. And in New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie, in an effort to circumvent a Legislature that has repeatedly defeated voucher bills, has inserted $2 million into his budget so low-income children can obtain private school vouchers. 
Proponents say tax-credit and voucher programs offer families a way to escape failing public schools. But critics warn that by drawing money away from public schools, such programs weaken a system left vulnerable after years of crippling state budget cuts -- while showing little evidence that students actually benefit.
''This movement is doing more than threaten the core of our traditional public school system,'' said Timothy Ogle, executive director of the Arizona School Boards Association. ''It's pushing a national policy agenda embraced by conservatives across states that are receptive to conservative ideas.''
Currently, 17 states offer 33 programs that allow parents to use taxpayer money to send their children to private schools, according to the American Federation for Children, a nonprofit advocate for school vouchers and tax-credit scholarship programs that give individuals or corporations tax reductions if they donate to state-run scholarship funds.
To qualify, students generally must fit into certain categories, based on factors that include income and disability status. Georgia students do not need to meet any specific criteria to receive tax-credit scholarships. And under the income criteria set for Indiana's voucher program, nearly two-thirds of the state's families qualify.
The Arizona Legislature last May expanded the eligibility criteria for education savings accounts, which are private bank accounts into which the state deposits public money for certain students to use for private school tuition, books, tutoring and other educational services.
Open only to special-needs students at first, the program has been expanded to include children in failing schools, those whose parents are in active military duty and those who are being adopted. One in five public school students -- roughly 220,000 children -- will be eligible in the coming school year.
Some parents of modest means are surprised to discover that the education savings accounts put private school within reach. When Nydia Salazar first dreamed of attending St. Mary's Catholic High School in Phoenix, for example, her mother, Maria Salazar, a medical receptionist, figured there was no way she could afford it. The family had always struggled financially, and Nydia, 14, had always attended public school.
But then Ms. Salazar, 37, a single mother who holds two side jobs to make ends meet, heard of a scholarship fund that would allow her to use public dollars to pay the tuition.
She is now trying to coax other parents into signing up for similar scholarships. ''When I tell them about private school, they say I'm crazy,'' she said. ''They think that's only for rich people.''
These state efforts come at a particularly challenging time for public schools. Their budgets suffered severely during the recession, and they are now facing pressure to conform to new curriculum standards and to evaluate teacher performance.
''We're not providing adequately now,'' said Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association. ''Why would you take away'' financing from public schools?
In 2002, the Supreme Court ruled that school vouchers did not violate the Constitution's separation of church and state, even though many families use the public money to send their children to religious schools. Many states, however, still have constitutional clauses prohibiting the financing of religious institutions with public money, which is why some of the programs face legal challenges. Voucher opponents also have filed suits based on state constitutional guarantees of public education.
Beyond Indiana, the Supreme Court in Louisiana heard an appeal this month by a group of parents who are currently using vouchers and the Black Alliance for Educational Options, an advocacy group, after a lower court upheld a challenge to the state's voucher program. They argued that children enrolled in failing public schools had the right to a high-quality education.
''What we're dealing with is what public monopolies always give us, which is low quality at a very high price,'' said Richard Komer, a lawyer with the Institute for Justice, a libertarian public-interest law firm that represents the pro-voucher groups in Indiana and Louisiana. ''The idea is to try and break that cycle, because what we've been doing in public education since the beginning of time is rewarding failure.''
Critics say schools that accept vouchers or tax credit scholarships often filter out students with special needs, and that families already sending their children to private school use the public programs to subsidize their tuition. It is also not clear that students who attend private schools using vouchers get better educations, as many do not have to take the annual standardized tests that public school students do. Research tracking students in voucher programs has also not shown clear improvements in performance.
''At the same exact time as accountability and transparency seem to be the total watchword for how are we spending these dollars in an austerity-ridden environment,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, ''there's absolutely no accountability with vouchers.''
Mr. Komer at the Institute for Justice called for a shift of focus. ''We happen to take the view that parents know best,'' he said, ''and are the best accountability measure to make sure that things are done properly for their kids.''
In Arizona -- which, over the past five years, cut more of its K-12 budget than any other state, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a policy research group based in Washington -- charter schools are ubiquitous and school districts have open borders, so children are free to go to school wherever they want.
Dr. Ogle, of the Arizona School Boards Association, said, ''The arguments that you need to have more options is superfluous.''
But the savings accounts have many powerful supporters, including Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer. Unlike vouchers, these accounts allow the money to follow the child from one school year to the next. (Scholarships total roughly $3,500 a year, or the state's portion of school per-pupil funding.)
''It will be the end of schools that don't perform, and that's a blessing,'' said Darcy A. Olsen, president of the Goldwater Institute, which designed the program and led a robust lobbying campaign to pass it in the Legislature. ''We're not doing anyone any favors by keeping schools afloat that don't teach children how to read.''
The school boards association and the state's teachers union, among others, have challenged the savings accounts in court on the grounds that they violate a constitutional amendment banning spending public money on private schools. (Direct vouchers, begun in 2006, were deemed unconstitutional in 2009 for that reason.)
In January 2012, a Superior Court judge in Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix, upheld the savings accounts, though the plaintiffs appealed the ruling. Oral arguments were heard last month. A decision is pending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Salazar of Phoenix says friends are surprised that her daughter, Nydia, can go to private school on public money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); TAX RELIEF (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); GOVERNORS (57%); APPEALS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA SUPREME COURT (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENTLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



921 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST REGION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Follow The Bouncing Ball

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- It seemed inevitable that Sean Miller would end up here, with a permanent home underneath Hollywood's bright lights, where his prodigious childhood talent for dribbling and handling a basketball drew the attention of film and movie types.
Alas, Miller's big-screen career lasted a handful of seconds, just one scene in which he dribbled three basketballs at once as the actor Nicholas Pryor walked by and asked, ''How tall is your mother?'' It is true, though. Before Miller became a basketball coach, before he took over at Arizona, before he guided the Wildcats into the Round of 16, there was ''The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh.'' 
Released in 1979, the film became something of a cult classic. Strangers ask Gary Stromberg, one of its producers, about it all the time. He heard Shaquille O'Neal once ranked it among his favorite movies. Same with Donovan McNabb.
''I remember that kid from the movie,'' Stromberg said this week in a telephone interview. ''I didn't know that was Sean Miller until just now. I had no idea he became a coach.''
That Miller landed beneath these bright lights anyway, with his Wildcats pitted against Ohio State in a West Region semifinal Thursday, is a direct result of his childhood experiences and his father's influence in particular.
John Miller coached for nearly 30 years in Beaver Falls, Pa., where he won nearly 600 games at Blackhawk High School and 4 state titles. By the time his children could walk, Miller had set up a basket in the basement, complete with a wooden backboard, an 18-inch rim and some 40 pages of drills, everything from dribbling to jump rope.
''You knew basketball was important in our house,'' said Archie Miller, Sean's younger brother and the head coach at Dayton. ''It was basically the same as breathing. Very, very few people have outworked my brother in the game of basketball. And I mean from age 5 to 44.''
From this basketball incubator, Sean Miller dribbled. Everywhere he went, he dribbled. He dribbled to his friends' houses, around the neighborhood, into restaurants. He learned to dribble while he spun a ball on an index finger, or pulled it around his back. He jumped rope as he spun balls with one finger on each hand. He was a puppet master. The ball was his puppet.
This led to more than 15 minutes of attention. Miller performed all over the country, at halftime shows, for the Pittsburgh Steelers, even on ''The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.'' He once signed an autograph for John Wooden.
Somehow, Miller's dribbling came to the attention of Bo Ryan at Wisconsin, then an assistant coach. Ryan, an economics and marketing major, wanted to spice up the university's basketball camp. So he flew in three basketball magicians, Miller, the youngest of the three, included. As part of his routine, Miller wore a Superman costume.
''Those were the three best at the time,'' Ryan said in a telephone interview. ''Probably in the world. In the '80s, there were all these kids whose dad took them to the gym for 10 hours a day, all these instructional videos. But Sean is the one that people from my generation remember.''
Around that time, Stromberg was a producer of the movie ''Car Wash,'' which earned him some Hollywood credibility. He and his partner wrote ''The Fish'' in one night, which Stromberg, who has been a recovering drug addict for about 30 years, said was fueled by cocaine. ''We used a lot of drugs that night,'' he said. ''Got very high. And laughed a lot.''
They managed to land Julius Erving for the lead role. (Stromberg said he once saw Dr. J doing his own laundry on set in Pittsburgh.) The movie, a mixture of sports and fantasy, told of a struggling basketball franchise that tried to right its season by building a team around players with the same astrological sign (Pisces).
Neither the movie nor Miller's stint as a ball-handling prodigy is listed in his bio on the Arizona athletics' Web site. The topic, in fact, is among his least favorite. (He would not consent to an interview that included it.)
Miller would rather talk about his college career, in which he led Pittsburgh to three N.C.A.A. tournament appearance and is ranked among Pitt's most prolific passers and most accurate 3-point shooters. He would rather talk about his family: his wife, Amy, and their three children. He would rather talk about the weather, or the Lakers, or the burgers at In-N-Out.
''There were literally thousands and thousands of opportunities for him to travel the world and demonstrate the skills he had,'' Archie Miller said. ''What gets lost in the shuffle is how terrific a player he was. People forget that.''
As Sean Miller grew older, he gave up the dribbling sideshow to focus on a more typical basketball career. The family did not move to Hollywood. It stayed in Pittsburgh. Sean played for his father, then went to Pitt.
As much as Miller would later try to play down the circus-act nature of his childhood, his experience traveling the country helped later as he recruited within those networks. It helped introduce him to Thad Matta, now the Ohio State coach, whom Miller later replaced at Xavier.
Much of Wednesday's news conferences centered on the history they shared. Matta described Miller as ''sloppy'' as a roommate and revealed that Miller always seemed to forget or misplace his wallet when trips started or the bill came due. Miller, on script until the end, refused to engage in such friendly banter. He said only, dryly, ''I wouldn't be here today without him.''
Regardless, what a life: the dribbling prowess, the camps, the videos, the international travel, the career assists record at Pittsburgh, the pass he threw to Jerome Lane before Lane shattered the backboard with a dunk and Bill Raftery shouted, ''Send it in, Jerome!'' And now, back in an N.C.A.A. tournament regional semifinal, against an old friend, in the city that once seemed like his inevitable destination.
The kid who was the dribbling boy in ''The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh'' is one win from a starring role in the final eight.
''I still can't believe that kid became a basketball coach,'' Stromberg said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Arizona Coach Sean Miller and his Wildcats face Ohio State in the Round of 16 on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



922 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Sorry State of the Airports

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Small Gains Are Observed by Engineers in Report'' (news article, March 19), while doing a great job of highlighting the poor showing of a variety of United States infrastructure aspects, doesn't mention the pitiable D grade given to our aviation infrastructure. That New York's three major airports, for example, are ranked among the world's worst has real economic implications. 
As commercial hubs, these airports have inefficiencies that have a ripple effect throughout the country, and their sorry state deters visitors from using them as gateways to our travel destinations. The world is in the midst of a global travel boom led by the expanding middle classes of China, Brazil and India. Unless we act now to overhaul our aging infrastructure, we will lose these travelers along with the windfall of jobs and tax revenues they provide.
Fortunately, the government doesn't have to pay the full tab. Private capital is ready to be invested through public-private partnerships that will create greater accountability and transparency, introduce innovation and competition, and help ensure on-time and on-budget completion, saving taxpayer dollars.
Infrastructure is a subject we can't afford to fail in. We also shouldn't settle for a D. We can do better.
JONATHAN M. TISCH New York, March 20, 2013
The writer, chairman of Loews Hotels, is chairman emeritus of the U.S. Travel Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

COMPANY: LOEWS HOTELS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



923 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: British Banks Told to Raise $38 Billion in New Capital

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON -- British banks must raise a combined £25 billion, or $38 billion, in new capital by the end of the year to protect against future financial shocks, according to a report on Wednesday from the country's authorities.
The Bank of England, which takes over the direct supervision of British firms like HSBC and Barclays next week, said the new reserves were needed to protect against losses connected to risky loan portfolios, future regulatory fines and the readjustment of banks' bloated balance sheets. 
Mervyn A. King, the departing governor of the Bank of England, said on Wednesday that the need to raise new capital ''is not an immediate threat to the banking system and the problem is perfectly manageable.''
The report follows a five-month inquiry by British officials into the financial strength of the country's banking industry. With the world's largest financial institutions facing new stringent capital requirements, the Bank of England had been concerned that British banks did not have capital reserves large enough to offset instability in the world's financial industry.
Earlier this month, the Federal Reserve also released the results of so-called stress tests of America's largest banks, which indicated that most big banks had sufficient capital to survive a severe recession and major downturn in financial markets. Citigroup and Bank of America, after a disappointing performance the previous year, now appeared to be among the strongest.
British banks were not so lucky.
The reported released on Wednesday said that local banks had overstated their capital reserves by a combined £50 billion, which authorities said would now be adjusted on the firm's balance sheets. Many of the country's banks already have enough money to handle the accounting adjustment, the report said on Wednesday.
The country's regulators also said that British banks must raise a total of £25 billion in new capital by the end of the year, but authorities say they believe roughly half of that amount has already been allocated under the banks' capital-raising plans for 2013. The Bank of England did not name which firms needed to meet the shortfall.
Analysts said on Wednesday that many of the affected firms had enough time to raise new capital by the end of the year, despite the market volatility caused by the banking crisis in Cyprus.
Local regulators have set a deadline for the end of 2013 for banks to increase their reserves to a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of a bank's ability to weather financial crises, of at least 7 percent under the accounting rules known as Basel III.
Regulators urged banks on Wednesday to increase their reserves by raising new equity, selling noncore assets or reorganizing their balance sheets. British policy makers are concerned that firms will cut lending to the country's economy as part of their efforts to increase their capital.
''We need safer banks,'' said Andrew Tyrie, a British politician who heads a Parliamentary committee on banking standards. ''We also need banks that return to normal lending.''
As part of increased oversight of British banks, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, a newly created division of the Bank of England that will have daily regulatory control of the country's largest firms, will have a direct say in how banks raise the new capital.
The authority's board is expected to meet over the next couple of weeks to decide which banks will be forced to raise new money. British firms must receive regulatory approval for their capital-raising plans.
Attention is likely to focus on both the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, which both received multibillion-dollar bailouts during the financial crisis. The banks, which are part nationalized, have recently announced the sale of some of their divisions, including the Royal Bank of Scotland's American subsidiary, the Citizens Financial Group, in a bid to raise new money.
''We see R.B.S. as most exposed,'' Citigroup analysts said in a research note to investors on Wednesday.
Despite the capital increases being in line with many analysts' expectations, most British banking stocks fell in early afternoon trading on Wednesday, with Royal Bank of Scotland's share price tumbling the most, at 3.1 percent.
In a statement, the Royal Bank of Scotland said it had announced plans last month to strengthen its capital position. The Lloyds Banking Group declined to comment.
Others firms are taking a different route. After raising $3 billion in November of so-called contingent capital, or CoCo bonds, which converts to equity if a bank's capital falls below a certain threshold, Barclays is looking to tap investors again through a similar product.
The push to increase reserves for Britain's largest banks is part of an effort to prevent future financial crises. Starting in 2014, the Bank of England plans to conduct regular stress tests of the country's financial institutions to check that they have sufficient capital reserves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mervyn King, the departing governor of the Bank of England. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



924 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Once More Through the Revolving Door for Justice's Breuer

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Coming off a grueling four-year stint at the Justice Department, Lanny A. Breuer is poised to make a soft landing in the private sector. 

 BODY:
Coming off a grueling four-year stint at the Justice Department, Lanny A. Breuer is poised to make a soft landing in the private sector.
Covington & Burling, a prominent law firm, plans to announce on Thursday that Mr. Breuer will be its vice chairman. The firm created the role especially for Mr. Breuer, a Washington insider who most recently led the Justice Department's investigation into the financial crisis. 
For Mr. Breuer, who will now shift to defending large corporations, Covington is familiar turf. He previously spent nearly two decades there.
"There's a strong emotional pull to the firm," Mr. Breuer, who departed as the Justice Department's criminal division chief on March 1, said in an interview. "It's my professional home."
Mr. Breuer is expected to earn about $4 million in his first year at Covington. In addition to representing clients, he will serve as an ambassador of sorts for the firm as it seeks to grow overseas.
The move is his latest turn through Washington's revolving door, the symbolic portal connecting government service and private practice. Mr. Breuer, who began his career as an assistant district attorney in Manhattan and later represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment hearings, is joining Covington for the third time.
Like Mr. Breuer, Covington operates at the nexus of Washington and Wall Street. It has represented several financial clients facing federal scrutiny, including the New York Stock Exchange, JPMorgan Chase and the former chief executive of IndyMac.
Such relationships could arouse suspicion among consumer advocates. Mary Jo White, who has been both a federal prosecutor and a defense lawyer, faces similar questions as she prepares to run the Securities and Exchange Commission.
But another school of thought holds that the revolving door instills prosecutors with valuable knowledge of Wall Street. And under ethics rules, Mr. Breuer cannot work for Covington on any case he handled at the Justice Department and must wait two years before facing off with the agency.
"What people dismissively talk about as the revolving door allows people to be better public servants and private litigants," he said. "I believe I was a better assistant attorney general because of my deep experience in the private sector."
Mr. Breuer's Justice Department tenure came at a critical period: the aftermath of the financial crisis.
While critics of Wall Street blamed Mr. Breuer for not bringing cases against the banks and executives at the center of the crisis, they praised him for the prosecution of R. Allen Stanford, who was sentenced to 110 years in prison for a Ponzi scheme, and for the criminal case against BP in response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. His biggest victory came last year, when a Japanese subsidiary of UBS pleaded guilty to manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. It was the first unit of a big global bank to plead guilty in two decades.
"We're proud to welcome him home," said Timothy C. Hester, Covington's chairman.

        
Breuer Reflects on Prosecutions That Were, and Weren't
        
Prosecutors, Shifting Strategy, Build New Wall Street Cases

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (86%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); ETHICS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); SENTENCING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); IMPEACHMENT (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); OIL SPILLS (50%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Breuer, Lanny A; Covington & Burling; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: COVINGTON & BURLING LLP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Covington & Burling

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (79%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%) Breuer, Lanny A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (65%); GULF OF MEXICO (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



925 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Newswallah: Bollywood and Organized Crime

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI BAGRI


HIGHLIGHT: A long history of links between the two. 

 BODY:
MUMBAI- The actor Sanjay Dutt, who was sentenced last week to five years in prison for illegal possession of weapons supplied by the masterminds of the 1993 Mumbai bombings, has accepted his sentence and will not apply for a pardon, he said Thursday.
"Just let me be in peace till I surrender," he begged reporters gathered outside his Mumbai residence. Mr. Dutt was accompanied by his sister, Priya Dutt, a Congress Party member of parliament. 
Mr. Dutt's high-profile case is just the latest example of the tight links between Bollywood, India's film industry, and Mumbai's notorious underworld. 
While ganglords allegedly finance Bollywood blockbuster movies and use the film industry to launder black money, Bollywood actors have complained openly of receiving threats from underworld gangsters.
Bollywood's connection to the underworld can be traced back to a government regulation that made the film industry ineligible for bank credit, private equity and other legitimate commercial financing.
"As a result, films were financed by ad hoc collections of investors, many of whom were from the construction and trade industries, who charged interest rates as high as 60 to 100 percent," said Jehil Thakkar, head of media and entertainment for KPMG.
In 2000, the Indian film industry was added to the list of industries recognized by the government and eligible for bank financing, a move that theoretically should have helped cut its dependence on the underworld.
In 2011, a leaked cable issued by the U.S. consulate in Mumbai, released by Wikileaks, spoke of the film industries' connection to the underworld.
"The industry also welcomed funds from gangsters and politicians, looking for ways to launder their ill-gotten gains, known in India as 'black money,' said the cable. "After the government added the film industry to the list of legitimate industries, the corporatization of Bollywood - and the wider entertainment industry - began."
Gangsters, not surprisingly, enjoy flaunting their Bollywood connections, which serve as a signal of their power in a star-struck nation. Dawood Ibrahim, Mumbai's top gangster, who moved to Dubai, famously invited Bollywood actors to his parties in Dubai and Sharjah. Whether the film stars attended because they were pressured to or as a matter of choice remains left to speculation.
Though the intertwined nature of Bollywood and crime in India is largely accepted as common knowledge, the magnitude of the problem becomes apparent every so often when a big arrest is made. In 2001, Nazim Rizvi, who produced the film "Chori Chori Chupke Chupke" was sentenced to six years imprisonment along with his assistant, Abdul Rahim Allahbaksh, for "acting as an organized crime syndicate and committing unlawful acts of extortion by targeting film personalities."
Bharat Shah, the high profile diamond trader who was the film's financier, was also arrested for withholding information about organized crime and specifically the film producer's connections to the Pakistan- based gangster Chhota Shakeel. While the court sentenced him to one year in jail, the judge said he would not be required to serve his sentence since he had already spent many months behind bars awaiting his trial.
"In my life I have never done a wrong thing knowingly or unknowingly. If I have committed a crime, I am sorry," Mr. Shah pleaded to a packed courtroom. "My family and I have suffered a lot of threats from the underworld, but due to fear, I did not complain to the police."
The then deputy chief minister of Maharashtra told the Associated Press that the arrests were meant to signal that the authorities were cracking down on the links between the underworld and Bollywood.
"We wanted to give a message to people and to Bollywood that even top people will not be spared," he said.
Writing in Time magazine in 2002, Richard Corliss reports that Abu Salem, the leader a notorious crime syndicate, had boasted to Indian journalists prior to his arrest that he had helped finance Devdas, one of the most expensive Bollywood films ever produced. Mr. Salem was known for his attachment to Bollywood, and had married Monica Bedi, a Bollywood starlet, and named his sons after his favorite actors.
When the phone of Chhota Shakeel, an alleged gangster, was tapped by the local police, they found that he frequently spoke with several actors, directors and producers connected to the Indian film industry, Mr. Corliss wrote. Of the 71 tapes the local police also heard incriminating phone conversations between Chhota Shakeel and Sanjay Dutt, which were then played in a special court in Mumbai in 2002.
Indian movie stars have frequently complained of receiving extortion calls from organized crime operators demanding money and threatening the lives of the actors and their families. In an infamous incident, Abu Salem's gang threatened the actor Rakesh Roshan. The situation escalated to the point that he was shot and had to be hospitalized to have the bullet removed from his arm. And in 2010 the actor and producer Sajid Nadiadwala said that a group of men, allegedly connected to the alleged gangster Ejaz Lakdawla, had stormed into his office and demanded money. Three other actors, Hrithik Roshan, Govinda and Amrish Puri, as well as the director Karan Johar, received police protection after receiving death threats from the underworld.
In 2011, the Times of India reported that the fugitive gangster Ravi Pujari threatened the actor-producer Sohail Khan, the producer Ritesh Sidhwani and the actor Vivek Oberoi. Police officials said that they had reviewed the security of the victims after the complaints were registered. However, actors receiving threats often avoided seeking police protection. Quoting industry insiders, the Times of India said that in 2011 six film personalities received extortion demands asking for sums up to 50 million rupees, but did not lodge official complaints.
Indian courts cleared Mr. Dutt of charges that he was involved in the actual terror attack on March 12, 1993, when serial blasts across the city had left 257 people dead and 700 injured. But his possession of two illegal firearms resulted in the five year sentence.

        
Bollywood's Sanjay Dutt Will Go to Prison
        
A Conversation With: Bar Council of India Chairman Manan Kumar Mishra
        
Death Sentence Upheld for Kasab
        
It's More Than Lunch
        
A Conversation With: U.S.A.I.D. Administrator Rajiv Shah

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); SENTENCING (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EXTORTION (74%); PARDONS (73%); DIAMOND MARKETS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%) Actors and Actresses; Bollywood; Chori Chori Chupke Chupke (Movie); Crime and Criminals; Dutt, Sanjay; India; Mumbai (India); Pakistan; Roshan, Hrithik; Salem, Abu

PERSON: Dutt, Sanjay; Roshan, Hrithik; Salem, Abu

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (95%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) INDIA (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) India; Mumbai (India); Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



926 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: For Cohen, Another Big Purchase

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: In addition to art, the embattled hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen is buying real estate. | Banks in Cyprus are opening on Thursday for the first time in nearly two weeks, with measures limiting withdrawals. | Dell is paying for the Blackstone Group&#8217;s due diligence costs, according to a report in Fortune. | Lanny A. Breuer is going back to his old law firm, Covington &#038; Burling. 

 BODY:
FOR COHEN, ANOTHER BIG PURCHASE | Steven A. Cohen has been in a harsh spotlight as he contends with an insider trading investigation into his hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors. But that hasn't stopped the billionaire from going shopping: He reached a deal last week to pay $60 million for an oceanfront property in East Hampton, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. At the same time, he has put his duplex apartment on the East Side of Manhattan up for sale, seeking $115 million, Mr. Lattman reports, citing a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
The news comes after reports that Mr. Cohen purchased Picasso's "Le Rêve" for $155 million from the casino owner Stephen A. Wynn. Mr. Cohen's new Hamptons property, on Further Lane, has an ocean view and is down the road from a home he already owns. (It is unclear whether he is selling that first house.) The $60 million price is among the most expensive real estate sales on Long Island's South Fork. If Mr. Cohen gets the $115 million asking price for his residence in the Bloomberg Tower, it would be the most expensive sale to date of a Manhattan apartment, Mr. Lattman notes. 
On Thursday morning, a judge is set to consider the $616 million deal that SAC recently reached with the government to resolve accusations of illegal trading, though Mr. Cohen is not expected to attend the hearing. If that settlement is approved by Judge Victor Marrero of Federal District Court in Manhattan, the payment will effectively come out of Mr. Cohen's pocket.
CYPRUS BANKS REOPEN | Banks in Cyprus are opening on Thursday for the first time in nearly two weeks, but with strict measures limiting withdrawals. "The measures, which are supposed to be in effect for only a week but are widely expected to be extended in some form well into the future, will prohibit electronic transfer of funds from Cyprus to other countries. In addition, individuals will not be allowed to take more than 3,000 euros (about $3,860) in cash outside the country, well below the current ceiling of 10,000 euros," The New York Times's Liz Alderman writes. These restrictions are "more reminiscent of Latin America or Africa," said Bob Lyddon, the managing director of IBOS, an international banking association.
Though depositors are set to lose a portion of their savings to help pay for the country's bailout, Joe Nocera, a columnist for The New York Times, will be shedding few tears. Much of the money held in the Cypriot banking system is Russian, benefiting from lower taxes. "Corrupt officials who embezzle money have long found Cyprus to be a friendly haven," Mr. Nocera writes. "To put it another way, the henchmen of Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, who have gotten rich by trampling over the rule of law, are now getting a taste of their own medicine."
DELL SAID TO BE REIMBURSING BLACKSTONE | Dell is picking up the tab for due diligence costs as the Blackstone Group considers making an offer for the company, according to Fortune's Dan Primack. The private equity firm, which examined Dell's books as part of a "go-shop" process, "repeatedly requested the concession, threatening to otherwise walk away from the table," Mr. Primack writes, citing unidentified people close to the situation. The special committee of Dell's board, obligated to encourage any rival bids to the $24 billion offer from Michael S. Dell and Silver Lake, "eventually favored the move, believing that it would increase the odds of getting a superior offer," the report says.
"If you're trying to get a higher bid for a $24 billion or $25 billion company, offering up $25 million probably doesn't seem like too steep a cost," one unidentified private equity executive not involved in the process told Fortune, by way of explanation.
ON THE AGENDA | A revised estimate of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter is out at 8:30 a.m. Accenture reports earnings before the market opens. Pinnacle Foods is set to begin trading after pricing its I.P.O. at the top of its expected range. Jim O'Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, is on Bloomberg TV at 7 a.m. Wilbur Ross is on Bloomberg TV at 11 a.m. John Donahoe, eBay's chief executive, is on CNBC at 3:10 p.m.
BREUER'S RETURN TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR | Lanny A. Breuer is going back to his old law firm, Covington & Burling, after four years leading the Justice Department's criminal division, DealBook's Ben Protess reports. Mr. Breuer is set to become the law firm's vice chairman, a role created especially for him, and is expected to earn about $4 million in his first year. In addition to representing clients, he will act as an ambassador as the firm looks to grow overseas, Mr. Protess says. "There's a strong emotional pull to the firm," Mr. Breuer said. "It's my professional home."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
I.S.S. Recommends Against MetroPCS's Planned Merger With T-Mobile | Institutional Shareholder Services largely agreed with major shareholders who have objected to both the debt that the merger would place on the combined company and the stake that MetroPCS shareholders would own of the new entity.
DealBook »
Bankruptcy Judge Approves Airline Merger | American Airlines and US Airways got permission to combine into the world's biggest airline.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Longtime Chief of Hearst to Step Down | Frank A. Bennack Jr., who oversaw an expansion of the privately held Hearst Corporation over his 30-year tenure, announced that he is stepping down as chief executive, to be replaced by the company's chief operating officer.
NEW YORK TIMES
H.J. Heinz Sets Shareholder Date for Deal | H.J. Heinz on Wednesday set April 30 as the date for a shareholder vote on a proposed $23 billion takeover of the company.
DealBook »
Aeon to Increase Stake in Japanese Supermarket Chain Daiei | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Jefferies Chief Sues to Protect His View | Richard Handler, the chief executive of Jefferies, is suing the landlord of a building near his Manhattan penthouse, trying to stop the construction of a rooftop restaurant, The New York Daily News reports. The lawsuit says Mr. Handler faces "light impingements from the project."
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Bank of America Forever | It has not been the easiest of jobs, but Brian T. Moynihan, told Charlie Rose that he would like to be chief executive of Bank of America for the rest of his life, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hair on the Street | One of the biggest growth areas on Wall Street? It may just be on the faces of some executives. Carl Icahn has now joined Lloyd Blankfein as one of the bearded elite of finance.
DealBook »
Son of Wells Fargo Director Receives $1.4 Million | Scott P. Quigley, whose father has been a Wells Fargo director since 1994, works as a manager in the bank's principal investments group, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Nomura Hires Former Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banker | Nomura has hired Yasuhiro Fujiwara, a former high-ranking investment banker at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, to serve as the bank's new head of equities for Asia excluding Japan.
DealBook »
JPMorgan Names Regional Heads for Asian Operations | 
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Chesapeake's Departing Chief Ponders His Next Move | Aubrey K. McClendon, who is stepping down from Chesapeake Energy after scrutiny of his unusual compensation plan, is "meeting with private-equity investors and others to discuss potentially teaming up for new ventures, according to several people familiar with the discussions," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Buyout Firms Circle Carestream Health | Bain Capital, the Carlyle Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners are among firms competing for Carestream Health, which could sell for as much as $3.5 billion, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
K.K.R. Said to Plan $1.5 Billion Energy Fund | The private equity firm K.K.R. is looking to raise a fund to invest in oil and gas development, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hedge Funds Focused on Bonds Turn to Stocks | The shift is "the latest sign of investor concern over the health of the long bull market in debt prices," The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Loeb's Strong Start to the Year | Daniel S. Loeb, the hedge fund manager who runs Third Point, has logged a gain of 12.42 percent in one fund this year through March 13, Reuters reports, citing data from HSBC's private bank.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Pinnacle Foods Prices I.P.O. at Top of Range | The company, owned by the Blackstone Group, raised $580 million after pricing its shares at $20 apiece, for a valuation of about $2.3 billion, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Wanelo, Social Commerce Site, Gains Fans | Wanelo said it had six million registered users, compared with one million members in November 2012. The site is said to have attracted robust interest from venture capitalists.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Messaging Apps Rankle Tech Giants | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Start-Up Bets on a Comeback for Wine Spritzers | 
NEW YORK TIMES YOU'RE THE BOSS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Banks Seek to Overturn Judge's Ruling in Critical Mortgage Case | The nation's largest banks, facing a torrent of lawsuits over shoddy mortgage securities, are pushing to overturn a series of tough rulings in a high-stakes case filed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency in 2011.
DealBook »
A.I.G. Board Adopts Clawback Policy | A.I.G. said its board adopted a policy last week to claw back compensation in the event of mistakes or wrongdoing, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
I.R.S. Videos Come Under Fire | Videos based on "Gilligan's Island" and "Star Trek" have emerged on YouTube and have drawn criticism from a senator.
DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); CASINOS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (69%); APPROVALS (65%); WRITERS (60%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (93%); STEPHEN A WYNN (53%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (84%); LATIN AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



927 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: The Debate on Bank Size Is Over

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Mounting evidence shows that the battle to control the biggest banks is being won, although tactics remain to be worked out, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
While bank lobbyists and some commentators are suddenly taken with the idea that an active debate is under way about whether to limit bank size in the United States, they are wrong. The debate is over; the decision to cap the size of the largest banks has been made. All that remains is to work out the details.
To grasp the new reality, think about the Cyprus debacle this month, the Senate budget resolution last week and Ben Bernanke's revelation that - on too big to fail - "I agree with Elizabeth Warren 100 percent that it's a real problem." 
Policy is rarely changed by ideas alone and, in isolation, even stunning events can sometimes have surprisingly little effect. What really moves the needle in terms of consensus among policy makers and the broader public opinion is when events combine with a new understanding of how the world works. Thanks to Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio; Senator Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and many other people who have worked hard over the last four years, we are ready to understand what finally defeated the argument that bank size does not matter: Cyprus.
There is no shortage of recrimination about how the Europeans handled the Cypriot situation. And it's hard to feel good about a policy process that ends with the president of the Eurogroup of finance ministers, Jeroen Dijsselbloem of the Netherlands, flip-flopping on the most important issue of all: who will bear losses and in what precise order of priority, in the (likely) event of future euro-zone financial system meltdowns.

Specifically, Mr. Dijsselbloem began by making a clear statement on Monday regarding how the Cyprus situation would serve as a template for future assistance within the euro zone. After a few hours of falling stock prices for banks in peripheral Europe, he did not so much walk this statement back as sprint it back at full speed, with this remarkable retraction (provided here in its entirety):
Cyprus is a specific case with exceptional challenges which required the bail-in measures we have agreed upon yesterday.
Macroeconomic adjustment programs are tailor-made to the situation of the country concerned and no models or templates are used.
I would translate this into plain English as: "We, the combined finance ministers of Europe, have no idea what we will want to do in the future - and we have no plans to work that out before bad things actually happen."
My colleague Jacob F. Kirkegaard, a must-read expert on European policy and its nuances, is hopeful that Europe is moving toward a variant of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation rules-based approach to bank resolution, in which small depositors have complete confidence they will be fully protected and other kinds of investors understand where they stand relative to potential losses (and to each other).
Contrast the chaos of the last week and Mr. Dijsselbloem's verbal contortions with what happened when IndyMac Bancorp failed in 2008 (on the latter, I recommend Chapter 7 in Sheila Bair's book, "Bull by the Horns"). The F.D.I.C. has very clear rules, laid out by statute and reinforced by precedent. The agency knows how to close a small or medium-scale bank without a macroeconomic soap opera - and a national catastrophe. (IndyMac had $32 billion in assets when it failed.)
But the bigger point from Cyprus is much simpler. Why would you want one or two banks to become so large in terms of their assets relative to gross domestic product that a single mistaken calculation can bring down the economy? In the American context, why would you allow any bank to outgrow the F.D.I.C.'s ability to resolve it in a relatively straightforward and low-cost manner? (The largest bank failure handled to date was that of Washington Mutual, also known as WaMu, with $307 billion in assets; JPMorgan Chase, today the world's largest bank when measured properly, has assets closer to $4 trillion).
According to their proponents, two troubled Cypriot banks, Bank of Cyprus and Laiki Bank (also known as Cyprus Popular Bank and previously known as Marfin Popular Bank), "only" made the mistake of buying Greek government bonds, before those were restructured and fell in value, reflecting the terms of the latest euro-zone rescue package for Athens.
The third largest Cypriot bank, Hellenic Bank, also has some problems but remains out of the news for now. (For background, see this Bank of Cyprus investor presentation through September 2012 and Laiki's third-quarter results. In both cases, these are the latest available on their Web sites.)
But this single mistake resulted in combined losses worth at least one-quarter of Cyprus's G.D.P., not just because the bets were big relative to the balance sheets of those banks, but rather because the banks are so big relative to the economy. Banking assets in Cyprus reached seven times G.D.P., with the Bank of Cyprus having a balance sheet valued at roughly twice Cypriot G.D.P. and Laiki only slightly smaller (see the investor relations presentations linked above, with more background at Figure 3 in this paper).
And in another case study for Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig's cautionary book, "The Bankers' New Clothes," the Cypriot banks had wafer-thin layers of equity, so big losses have to fall on creditors (unless taxpayers somewhere are feeling generous). For Bank of Cyprus, equity was supposedly 2.3 billion euros at the end of the third quarter of 2012, when the bank's assets were 36.2 billion euros. I haven't seen a convincing statement of Laiki's recent equity funding level. The chairman of the Bank of Cyprus resigned on Tuesday, although there remains some confusion about who among the bank's board and senior management remains on the job.
Furthermore, these banks structured their liabilities so that their only real creditors providing private-sector funding were depositors (i.e., they issued very little by way of bonds or similar forms of debt). Hence the options became either a complete bailout supported by the euro zone (making the bank creditors whole) or losses for at least some depositors.
The scale of losses in the latter route will disrupt the economy for many years and is likely to end the Cypriot offshore banking model.
Given that we have a choice, why would any American want to allow a few banks to become so vulnerable and so big relative to the economy?
Our largest banks are not yet at Cypriot scale, thank goodness. But they want to get bigger and they receive implicit government subsidies, in the form of downside protection available to creditors, which enable them to borrow more and potentially expand without limit.
In fact, it was the stated policy of former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner to encourage these banks to grow further - for example, to provide financial services to emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Africa. This is not any kind of market outcome but rather a poorly conceived and extremely dangerous government subsidy scheme.
The good news at the end of last week was that the Senate unanimously decided that the United States should go in another direction, by ending the funding advantages of megabanks.
The decision was expressed in an amendment to the nonbinding Senate budget resolution, but this does not make it any less momentous. The vote was 99 to 0, as a result of a lot of hard work by Senators Brown and David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, and their respective staffs. Senators Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, and Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, also joined this important initiative.
Lobbyists were, naturally, apoplectic.
But making last week even more decisive, Mr. Bernanke's language shifted significantly. In a recent interaction with Senator Warren, which I wrote about in this space, Mr. Bernanke had essentially denied that large financial institutions represent a threat.
Now he has denied that denial, saying in the clearest possible terms during a news conference on March 20: "Too big to fail is not solved and gone," adding, "It's still here."
And in case anyone did not fully grasp his message, Mr. Bernanke explained, "Too big to fail was a major source of the crisis, and we will not have successfully responded to the crisis if we do not address that successfully."
Now that the policy consensus has shifted, how exactly policy plays out remains to be seen (Rob Blackwell of American Banker has some suggested scenarios).
Legislation under development by Senators Brown and Vitter will definitely be worth supporting. Opinion on Capitol Hill has now moved in a way that will continue to reinforce itself, particularly as the European disaster unfolds.
The Federal Reserve's Board of Governors is getting the message. Even William Dudley, president of the New York Fed, a traditional bastion of Wall Street, is signaling that he now knows which way the wind is blowing.
The Orwellian doublespeak of Wall Street - nicely described by Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets - has taken a beating. Next up: cutting the subsidies of the biggest banks in a meaningful way.

        
A Strange Bank Holiday
        
The London Whale, Richard Fisher and Cyprus
        
From Lehman to Cyprus
        
Bernanke's Credibility on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Lifting the Veil on the Fed's 2007 Discussions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); LOBBYING (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bernanke, Ben S; Cyprus; Senate; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); SHERROD BROWN (55%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); CYPRUS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%) Cyprus

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



928 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Definition

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times, plus a look at what&#8217;s happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 
Returning for a second day to the topic of same-sex marriage, the Supreme Court seemed poised to invalidate a central part of the federal Defense of Marriage Act that defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman, Adam Liptak reports. If the justices strike the provision, same-sex spouses in jurisdictions where their marriage is legal would start to receive federal benefits. 
The political momentum behind legalizing same-sex marriagecould hinder its legalprogress. Peter Baker writes that while the Supreme Court appears inclined to strike the federal definition of marriage, the justices might see the movement's progress as reason not to intervene further.
Jeremy W. Peters describes the brief appearance outside the court of Edith Windsor, the 83-year-old plaintiff in the Defense of Marriage Act case.
In the fight for same-sex couples to have the right to marry, Mary Bonauto hasachieved a status akin to Thurgood Marshall's, the advocate for civil rights who went on to become a Supreme Court justice. Sheryl Stolberg profiles Ms. Bonauto, the top civil rights lawyer for Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders, whose decade of legal work to advance same-sex marriage has won her praise from her supporters and critics alike.
The Senate barber shop is about tofeel the effects of budget cuts. Jeremy W. Peters writes that the shop, which has served senators since the 19th century and has survived the Civil War and Newt Gingrich, will be privatized over several years as the Senate sergeant-at-arms seeks to cut its losses.
 Happening in Washington: 
Economic reports expected Thursday include fourth-quarter gross domestic product and weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by weekly mortgage rates.
President Obama will be surrounded by mothers, law enforcement officials and victims of gun violence when he delivers remarks Thursday urging Congress to act on legislation to protect children from gun violence. His remarks in the East Room begin at 11:40 a.m.
Several sub-Saharan African leaders are in Washington for several days of events that include an honor cordon at 9:45 a.m. and a meeting with Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. at 2:10 p.m. The guests are President Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone, President Macky Sall of Senegal, President Joyce Banda of Malawi and Prime Minister José Maria Pereira Neves of Cape Verde.
The president and vice-president's schedule also includes meetings with Secretary of State John Kerry at 3:45 p.m. and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew at 4:15 p.m.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (97%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PRIVATIZATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); CHILDREN (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOE BIDEN (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CAPE VERDE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); MALAWI (79%); AFRICA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



929 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: City Has Financial Ties to Carwashes Under Investigation, Report Says

BYLINE: JULIE TURKEWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: A string of carwashes with a history of labor law violations are paid by the city to clean city-owned cars, according to a new report. 

 BODY:
The owners of a string of carwashes with a history of labor law violations and who are under investigation by the state attorney general's office are paid by the city to clean city-owned cars, according to a new report.
Using publicly available documents, the report shows that the city has paid more than $400,000 to businesses operated by the carwash owners, John Lage and Fernando Magalhaes, since 2007. That amount includes money to wash Police Department vehicles. 
In 2005, the federal Department of Labor sued a company owned by Mr. Lage, Lage Management Corporation, accusing the company of violating labor law by failing to pay minimum wage and overtime. The corporation eventually agreed to pay $4.7 million in back wages and damages to more than 1,300 employees.
In March 2012, the state attorney general's office announced that it had started a separate investigation into labor law violations at 23 carwashes in the New York City area owned or operated by Mr. Lage and Mr. Magalhaes. The investigation is continuing.
Carwash workers across the country have long complained about unlawful abuse, including nonpayment, underpayment, insufficient safety training and unsafe conditions. In March 2012, city carwash workers began a campaign to unionize the approximately 200 carwashes in the five boroughs. Since then, employees at five carwashes have voted to unionize.
Three groups have led the unionization campaign and produced the report: Make the Road New York; New York Communities for Change; and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. The report has not been publicly released.
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and a Democratic candidate for mayor, said that the city should "immediately take action and reconsider doing business with them." 
Dennis Lalli, a lawyer for Mr. Lage, defended his client's practices, noting that Mr. Lage recently raised workers' wages, and "now pays well in excess of the state minimum wage for tipped employees," which is $5.50 an hour. 
"The city does business with Mr. Lage's carwashes because he does a good job," said Mr. Lalli, who also represents Mr. Magalhaes. "Those who say that the city should stop doing business with Mr. Lage do not have evidence of labor law violations. They aren't out to advance the workers' interests. Rather, they are a front for a labor union that seeks to advance its own interest in collecting dues from the employees' hard-earned pay."
Other agencies that have paid for services from businesses owned by Mr. Lage and Mr. Magalhaes include the Department of Housing, Preservation and Development; the Department of Sanitation; the Department of Homeless Services; and the Department of Transportation. The information is available on checkbooknyc.com, a city Web site that lists some, but not all, transactions that the city makes with outside vendors.
Hector Gomez, 24, began working at the Sixth Avenue Car Wash in Greenwich Village, which was owned by Mr. Lage and Mr. Magalhaes, five years ago. He was paid $5.50 an hour, never received safety training and was never offered protections like gloves or masks, he said. "We washed 50 or 40 police cars each day," he said. "The white ones, the black ones, every kind. Of course it didn't feel good, the cars come in, many cars, and we're not even earning minimum wage." After workers at his carwash voted to form a union, his salary was raised to $6.03 an hour. 
When the Sixth Avenue Car Wash shut down earlier this year, he was transferred to another carwash in Queens. "All I want is for them to pay us the minimum wage," he said, "for them to give us regular days to rest."

        
Mexican New Yorkers Are More Likely to Live in Poor Households
        
Growing Work Force Accounts for High Jobless Rate, Study Says
        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat
        
Restaurant to Pay Workers in Wage-Theft Case
        
Office Owners and Cleaners Reach a Deal, Averting a Strike

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CITIES (77%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); BACK PAY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Car Washes; Labor and Jobs; Lage Management Corp; Lage, John; Make the Road New York; New York City; New York Communities for Change; Wages and Salaries; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Lage Management Corp; Make the Road New York; New York Communities for Change

PERSON: Lage, John

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013



930 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The New York Times: Wine spritzers were an indispensable cocktail-party accessory for many women in the 1970s and '80s. And they're coming back, with better ingredients. - Patrick Farrell 
The New York Times: "As long as we keep milking cows, we never run out of gas," said the chief executive of an enormous dairy farm in Indiana, where livestock waste is turned into natural gas that powers 10 barns, a cheese factory and its fleet of delivery trucks. - Emily Weinstein
The Huffington Post: The seven health benefits of chocolate. No, really. - Maria Newman
Epicurious: Lena Dunham's "Girls," recast with the tastiest chicks-of the-moment (that is, marshmallow peeps). - Melissa Clark
Specialty Food: A current-trend roundup: The demand for, and price of, quinoa is spiraling upward; more and more university students are requiring gluten-and-allergy-free food options, and have filed claims under the Americans with Disabilities Act to compel schools to provide it, and gourmet popcorn (with everything from dill to cinnamon to bacon) is, well, popping. - Glenn Collins 
Grub Street: Two Italian grandmas, both lifelong New Yorkers, review Carbone, the Torrisi team's ode to red sauce cuisine and midcentury moves. - Emily Weinstein
: Noma takes a leap in its coffee-brewing technology, but Oliver Strand laments that nearly a third of all Michelin-starred restaurants are using push-button Nespresso capsules. Not that there's anything wrong with that, he says, but "uniformity and ubiquity is the problem." - Patrick Farrell
The New York Times: Politicians get loopy in the wee hours, as they're hashing out the finer points of legislation. In Albany, during a hard-fought budget debate, the lowly kumquat became the metaphor for a lot of things legislators were fighting over, among them guns and budget items they did not like. - Maria Newman 
The Huffington Post: Possibly using the same logic as "this leftover cold pizza has no calories if you eat it standing up in front of the fridge," Parkay imitation butter spray has maintained that although a whole bottle of the stuff has 823 calories and 93 grams of fat, a single serving has zero calories and zero fat. A lawsuit has ensued. - Melissa Clark
The New York Times: A video documentary: the devastating effects of the 2011 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear meltdown in Japan have led to an aftermath of fear: many Japanese mistrust the government's reassurances about the safety of food, including seafood, outside the evacuation zone in Fukushima. - Glenn Collins
The New York Post: On the 10th anniversary of the ban on smoking in New York City restaurants and bars, the owners of the Old Town Bar, who had been some of the most vocal critics of the policy, stood with Mayor Bloomberg at a press conference and said the ban had actually helped business. - Maria Newman
The Wall Street Journal: The economy may be growing, but so is the number of Americans on food stamps. - Emily Weinstein

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); CHEESE (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SMOKING (70%); SEAFOOD (68%); FOOD SAFETY (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (67%); TSUNAMIS (63%); NATURAL DISASTERS (63%); BUDGETS (62%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (60%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); EXECUTIVES (56%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Links

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



931 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Twins No More

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Budget and trade, different stories. 

 BODY:
Back in the Reagan years two unprecedented things began happening to the US economy. For the first time ever, we began running large peacetime budget deficits; and for the first time ever we began running large trade deficits. In a famous analysis, Martin Feldstein pronounced them "twin deficits", linking the external deficit to the budget deficit, a proposition that made sense at the time: the budget deficit was helping to drive up interest rates, and high rates led to an overvalued dollar. 
It's occurred to me recently that much discussion of deficits these days implicitly assumes that something similar applies in today's world - that by running budget deficits we're indebting ourselves, as a nation, to foreigners (especially China). So it's worth pointing out that this isn't remotely true.
It's important to note, by the way, that the fraction of US government debt the Chinese own is basically irrelevant here; if the Chinese decide, say, to sell a bunch of stocks and buy government bonds instead, this raises the fraction of government debt they hold but doesn't hurt the international investment position at all. What we should be looking at is simply the amount of external finance we're relying on.
And what you actually see is this:
The budget balance here is for "general government" - federal, state, and local; the current account is the broad definition of trade, including investment income. What you see is that the surge in budget deficits after 2008 was accompanied by a significant decline in net foreign borrowing compared with the height of the housing bubble.
There's no mystery here, of course: what happened in the slump was a collapse in private spending, which actually brought the trade deficit down even as it led to a sharp fall in revenue and rise in spending on safety-net programs. But it's still very much at odds with the popular perception that our deficits are putting the nation deep into debt to foreigners.
And this in turn means that the notion that deficits are impoverishing the nation is all wrong. To the extent that our future wealth is being impaired, it's overwhelmingly because we're investing too little, not because we're borrowing too much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



932 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: As the Pace of China's Junk Bond Sales Grows, So Do Worries

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Concerns about an overheated market for high-yield bonds are being applied in China, which has its own set of potential risks. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - It has an all-too-familiar ring. Investors in search of better interest rates rush to risky, high-yield bonds, raising worries that the market is overheated.
But the concerns - which have already been voiced about the $120 billion of European and American junk bonds issued this year - are now being applied to the fledgling Chinese market.
While American and European companies have been selling high-yield debt for decades, Chinese businesses only recently started to tap into the junk bond market in earnest. 
It's a sign that Chinese companies are growing up. As the country's economy continues to open up, private sector businesses have looked to foreign investment to finance their expansion efforts, rather than relying on hard-to-get loans from the state-controlled banks.
The junk bond market in China took off this year. Although the deals still account for a small share of the global total, Chinese companies have sold $8 billion of high-yield bonds to overseas investors since January. That's up from $2.3 billion during the same period a year earlier, according to figures from Dealogic.
"Bond markets are booming because companies have had difficulty getting the level of debt they want out of banks onshore or offshore, and in tapping equity markets," said Nick Gronow, a senior managing director at FTI Consulting in Hong Kong and an expert in Chinese bankruptcies. "So bonds have really taken up the slack."
But the pace of growth is troubling to some analysts.
As investors have plowed into junk bonds across the globe, yields have plummeted. In the United States, rates on junk bonds have dipped below 6 percent, compared with historical payouts of roughly 10 percent or more.
The trend is similar in China.
Country Garden, a builder based in the southern city of Guangzhou, raised $750 million in January by selling 10-year bonds that paid 7.5 percent a year. In 2011, the company sold $900 million of seven-year bonds at a much higher 11.125 percent.
The borrowing costs for Kaisa Group Holdings, a commercial real estate company in the southern city of Shenzhen, have also dropped rapidly. In September, it sold $250 million of five-year bonds at 12.875 percent. By January, it was able to sell $500 million of bonds at 10.25 percent. This month, it issued new bonds at 8.875 percent.
"Chinese real estate issuance is happening for structural reasons: 50 percent of the population needs to be urbanized and housed, traditional funding from banks may be more restricted now, and global appetite for yield is on the rise," said Gregorio Saichin, the London-based head of emerging markets and high-yield, fixed-income portfolio management at Pioneer Investments. "When you combine all the above factors with a massive refinancing exercise by Chinese property developers, you get this type of outcome."
But it's a slim difference in yields for such disparate markets.
Chinese high-yield bonds have many of the same characteristics - and risks - as American debt. They tend to be sold by companies looking to finance ventures in new or untested areas or businesses that compete in industries where earnings are subject to volatile swings.
But the Chinese market has its own set of potential problems, and some analysts worry that investors aren't being properly compensated for the added layer of risks.
For one, the bulk of the high-yield bonds in Asia this year - roughly half - come from Chinese real estate companies. The fear is that the housing market, which has been booming, is a bubble that will eventually burst.
The industry is especially uncertain, given the periodic government intervention. On March 1, Beijing announced new measures to curb excess in the market, including the strict enforcement of a 20 percent capital gains tax on the sale of preowned homes.
"With the new leadership in China, people are still not sure which way things will go in terms of property policies," said Suanjin Tan, an Asia fixed-income portfolio manager based in Singapore at BlackRock. "That also adds to the desire among these guys to remain cashed up, so they can take advantage of any wobbles in the market to pick up land on the cheap."
Chinese junk bonds also have a unique structure, which could leave investors vulnerable.
Mainland China's domestic bond market remains largely off limits to foreign buyers. So most investors buy offshore Chinese bonds, which are issued through holding companies headquartered in places like the Cayman Islands.
The bonds tend not to be backed by the actual businesses and underlying assets in mainland China. That means foreign bondholders may have little legal recourse if a company defaults on its debt, especially if local banks or other Chinese creditors make claims.
Bondholders are now facing such difficulties with the bankruptcy of Suntech Power.
Earlier this month, Suntech, the world's largest solar panel maker, stopped making payments on $541 million in convertible bonds largely held by foreign investors, including Pioneer Investments. On March 21, a court in Wuxi, a city in eastern China, accepted a bankruptcy petition filed by eight Chinese banks against Suntech's main operating unit in China, a group that is seeking to recoup some of the money it lent to the company.
If previous Chinese bankruptcies are any indicator, those local banks will take priority in the so-called liquidation process, while foreign bondholders may lose everything. "The greatest difficulty the bondholders have, when things go wrong, is what leverage do they actually have against the company?" Mr. Gronow of FTI Consulting said.
The answer, usually, is not much. Mr. Gronow cites the case of Asia Aluminum, a manufacturer in the small southern city of Zhaoqing that collapsed in 2009 after accumulating more than $1.7 billion in debt.
After several months of often strained negotiations between the company, mainland and Hong Kong banks, foreign bondholders and the government, Mr. Gronow and his co-workers, acting as liquidators, worked out a deal that gave back Asia Aluminum's bank creditors in Hong Kong 100 percent of their capital.
Others were not so lucky. The owners of bonds issued by one offshore subsidiary received about 20 cents on the dollar. And investors in riskier "payment-in-kind" notes, a sort of hybrid bond where interest payments can be made by selling more debt, received only about 1 cent on the dollar.
"The thing you face as a liquidator dealing with these situations is how to maximize the recovery," Mr. Gronow said. "Clearly, getting that sort of return, they were not very happy about it."

        
China's Focus on Aerospace Raises Security Questions
        
China Hints at Far Wider Welcome to Overseas Investors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (95%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); URBANIZATION (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%) China; Foreign Investments; Junk Bonds; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FTI CONSULTING INC (54%); KAISA GROUP HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: FCN (NYSE) (54%); 1638 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (57%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



933 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Mitchel Thompson's War

BYLINE: C. KAY LARSON


HIGHLIGHT: By 1863, antislavery had become the driving spirit for many soldiers from the northern Midwest. 

 BODY:
On Aug. 1, 1860, an article in the Chicago Tribune proclaimed, "Great doings in Warren County." The reporter recounted the immense surge in political support for the Republican presidential candidate, Abraham Lincoln, in the northwest farm regions. At a flagpole raising near Monmouth, pro-Lincoln speakers fulminated by the hour to "enthusiastic shouts" from a large crowd. In neighboring Henderson County a flood of 5,000 people, including hundreds arriving by steamboat from Iowa, crowded into Oquawka for a Republican rally later that month.
A farmer in Spring Grove named Mitchel A. Thompson most likely attended the Lincoln flag raising. Thompson eventually enlisted in the 83rd Illinois Infantry Regiment from which, on March 28, 1863, he penned a searing political statement that voiced his Union sentiments. His words strongly speak to the issue of why the Northern people were willing to wage a protracted, body-piling war to suppress the rebellion.
The forces that created the political culture in northwest Illinois had been building for years. During the 1850s, a new Republican Party alliance was struck between Western free farmers and Eastern industrialists, in large part because of the Erie Canal, steamboats and the railroads. 
Rapid transport brought to the Midwest settlers of New England stock, who embodied Puritan values of morality, purposefulness, education and hard work. They were joined by other ambitious, antislavery migrants, notably those of Scots-Anglo-Irish descent converging from the Middle Atlantic and border states, as well as German, Scandinavian Irish and British immigrants.
Migrants from Southern and border states had moved north to escape the poverty imposed on poor whites. In a stump speech, the future governor Richard Ogilvy told how, as a young laborer in Kentucky, he could charge only $6 a month, lest he lose out to slave labor, which could be rented out at $75 a year.
In the secession winter of 1861, the Confederacy closed the lower Mississippi River to Northern commerce, catapulting the Midwest into a recession. Huge farm surpluses mounted and corn and hog prices plunged. The economic straits hardened the states' population further against the South. As Attorney General Edward Bates wrote, "It is not politically possible for any foreign power to hold the mouth of that river against the people of the middle and upper" Mississippi River Valley.
There was a cultural component as well. The Rev. Charles Beecher believed that a slave culture would crush Bible-reading, education and the Christian family. Following the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Bill, which opened the territories to slavery: the question, he said, ceased "to be whether black men are forever to be slaves, but whether the sons of Puritans are to become slaves themselves."
These factors combined to swirl a perfect storm of political opposition to a Southern elite who seemed determined to ruin Midwesterners economically and spread slavery into the West. Northwest Illinois farmers' mantra became "free territories, free homesteads, and protection to free labor." The Democratic Party's "open and covert hostility" to the Homestead Bill, which offered public land for settlement, was the last political straw for many. When war came farmers like Thompson, thus, fought to keep themselves free and prosperous, as well as to make slaves free.
On Aug. 1, 1862, the 42-year-old Thompson enlisted in Company B of the 83rd Illinois Infantry, which was mustered into service three weeks later. The regiment departed Cairo, Ill. for Forts Heiman, Henry and Donelson in Tennessee, where it performed garrison duties until December 1864. Confederate raiders and guerrillas were very active in the region, and the regiment also conducted expeditions locally and to other areas of Tennessee and Kentucky to counter them.
Thompson was eventually promoted to corporal. As one of his colleagues wrote, he was "prompt in the execution of his duties and conscientious in his dealings, and, as an officer, Christian, and friend, worthy of imitation and deserving of the grateful remembrance of all."
But Thompson's character comes through most forcefully in the March 28 letter written to his wife. In it he asserted what many fighting men from the northern Midwest were feeling, as the war neared its second anniversary, especially given the antiwar sentiments of many remaining on the home front:
We are done carrying on this war on peace principles. Our armies that are in the field are determined to prosecute this war to the bitter end. ... They spurn with the utmost contempt those traitors in the north who would sell themselves and their posterity to a relentless foe that would reduce them and us to be mere vassals to a set of aristocratic slave holders and traders in human flesh whose vital principle is the few to dictate, the mass to serve. 
Thompson related that he had had a "considerable of an argument" with a Texas prisoner. Thompson was trying to learn whether his cousin, who had moved to Texas, might be in a Confederate unit. If he were, Thompson believed, he must be a draftee - no way that an Illinois man would volunteer to for the South. But the Texan said no, that in Texas the men from the North were among the strongest advocates for the Southern cause.
Thompson responded that the opposite held true in his neighborhood. The Southern families he knew were the strongest in opposition to the Rebellion. Thompson wrote that they, like thousands of others in the "Deep North,"
look upon slavery as a curse to mankind, a curse to society both in a civil and religious sense. In rearing up families in luxury and ease with a domineering spirit, lounging in idleness and vice, frowning on anyone who should do anything for themselves, looking upon those that would cook a meal's victuals or would curry his own horse ignominious.
This class hates slavery. They have a conscience. They see the evil that slavery places on society. They flee from it as they would flee from the wrath to come. They move North to a land where universal freedom prevails, where labor is looked upon as meritorious, where all are permitted to read the Bible, where all are on an equal footing in regard to procuring an education, where all can worship God according to the dictates of their own consciences and where the Wealth is with the masses and not with the favored few. Such is the class that moves North and they are opposed to this rebellion from the fact that it strikes at the very root of the society that they have moved North in search of and because the South is waging this war to break down free institutions and establish a government with slavery as its base and that the few should lord it over the masses. 
Thompson was speaking as much for himself as for others. If the Union war effort didn't begin with an ideology, by early 1863, following the issuance of the final Emancipation Proclamation, "freedom" for all citizens surely became the Northern watchword. Federal arms were protecting blacks, and no longer would Northerners fear becoming "white serfs of Southern nobility." As a Massachusetts private wrote his wife, "'I do feel that the liberty of the world is placed in our hands to defend and if we are overcome then farewell to freedom.'"
Mitchel Thompson did not survive the war. On Aug. 20, 1864, he was in a unit that escorted a telegrapher near Fort Donelson to repair a line. A squad of 11, including Thompson, detached to seek out local guerrillas. They were attacked by more than 100 drunken guerrillas. The Union men fought fiercely; most refusing to surrender, even after their ammunition ran out. They were killed regardless. One soldier was carried wounded into a home by local women and murdered on the couch where he was laid. Only four of the men survived to tell the story. One was Marion Morrison, actor John Wayne's grandfather. Mitchel Thompson was last seen alive, behind a tree reloading his rifle.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: The Chicago Tribune, Aug. 1 and 27, 1860; Richard Carwardine, "Evangelicals and Antebellum Politics"; Illinois State Archives; Frederick H. Dyer, Compendium of the War of the Rebellion, vol. III, Regimental Histories; Frank L. Klement, "Copperheads in the Middle West"; C. Kay Larson, "Great Necessities," "South Under a Prairie Sky" and private genealogical research papers; Jeffrey B. and Richard B. Morris, eds., Encyclopedia of American History; Department of Commerce, United States Census 1860. 
 C. Kay Larson is a member of the board of the New York Military Affairs Symposium and the author of "Great Necessities: The Life, Times, and Writings of Anna Ella Carroll, 1815-1894 and "South Under a Prairie Sky: The Journal of Nell Churchill, U. S. Army Nurse and Scout." 

        
The War Comes Home to Indiana
        
Fear and Loathing in Indiana
        
The Breadbasket of the Union
        
Up South
        
The 'Jack of Clubs' Makes His Move

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEN (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); RELIGION (60%); LAWYERS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Illinois; States (US); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%) Illinois

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



934 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: California Beaming

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: You can laugh at the sunbaked barbarians, but their renaissance is another chapter in the American experiment. 

 BODY:
SAN SIMEON, Calif. - To take in the gardens of Italian cypress and perfumed citrus, to sit at poolside under a Roman temple front, to stare at the infinity of the Pacific from 1,600 feet above the water is to realize that Hearst Castle was much more than the Xanadu that entombed a tragic giant in "Citizen Kane."
Charlie Chaplin and Winston Churchill were among the guests to dine in the 60,645-square-foot main house of the press magnate William Randolph Hearst, though Churchill must have chafed at the two-drink limit. 
What you feel in this gilded aerie, now part of the state park system, is another California - crazy, wildly hubristic, a place without limits. The audacity of latching fantasy onto earthquake-shaky bedrock has always been in the state's DNA.
And right on cue, just as the chorus of California-hating naysayers have signed off on yet another obituary - It's Greece! A liberal nightmare! Everyone's leaving! - the Golden State is dreaming once again.
Following a tax hike backed by voters last year, California is projecting a budget surplus in the near future, and big pockets of the state are national leaders in job creation and population growth.

Of greater significance, two of the biggest public works projects in American history - a $68 billion bullet train that will speed people from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2 hours and 38 minutes, and a huge re-plumbing of the state's biggest river and delta system - are moving forward. If they come together as planned, these ventures will lay the foundation for a California of 60 million people that may actually be more livable than the state that now has 38 million. 
Both initiatives have boatloads of critics. And given California's decade of depression, doubt and debt, these skeptics deserve a healthy hearing. But at least the Golden State is looking toward tomorrow once again. 
If the Pilgrims had landed in California, goes the line attributed to Ronald Reagan, the East Coast would still be wilderness. And yet, people love to hate this state, in the same way that people love to hate, say, Alex Rodriguez of the Yankees - all that preening beauty, natural talent and golden glow. 
I yield to no one in my longstanding, um, envy of California's great bounty (and my ill feelings about A-Rod). Growing up in the Pacific Northwest, I learned to loathe the "sunbaked barbarians" to the south, and not just because their teams almost always beat my teams.
But there is something irrational, indeed unpatriotic, in rooting for California to fail, as so many conservatives are now doing. Sure, they are upset that the Republican Party is dead in this state - R.I.P. G.O.P. And, among the fringes, there are those who cannot accept that California is a minority-majority state, with whites making up about 39 percent of the population. They've seen the future and don't like it one bit. 
When Cal-haters say people are leaving the state because of high taxes - its top rate is 13.2 percent on earnings over $1 million - they mean people like them. Or people like the golfer Phil Mickelson, who complained that the tax burden on the millions he makes hitting a little white ball may force him to look beyond his Southern California moorings. 
Because, by any measure, the state is still growing. Nationwide, of the 10 counties with the largest numeric increase in population last year, three were in California. In that same period, the state added 256,000 people - nearly half the population of Wyoming. Also, in roughly the same span, California added 365,000 new jobs.
These metrics are not necessarily a validation of policies from Sacramento. The state's bloated pension system is out of control, and the unemployment rate, 9.8 percent, is well above the national average. But California, the world's ninth largest economy, is not Greece, which Mitt Romney compared it to last year. 
The Great Recession cost the state 1.3 million jobs - a huge blow. And when Gov. Jerry Brown was sworn in for a long-interrupted third term in 2011, he inherited a budget hole of $25 billion. He cut spending, while convincing people to raise taxes. "Fiscal discipline is not the enemy of our good intentions," he said, "but the basis for realizing them."
And the same time, voters elected a Democratic super-majority in the Assembly, assuring that the Party of No would be irrelevant. Brown can crow - for the moment. "Against those who take pleasure singing our demise, California did the impossible."
Brown is a seasoned visionary, becoming less prickly with age. In a memorable state of the state speech earlier this year, he tied the discovery of gold and the founding of Google to California's "special destiny."
The centerpiece of his vision is high-speed rail (also approved by the voters) and re-engineering the water system of the Central Valley to ensure that nature, agriculture and residential growth all have a future, no matter what climate change brings. 
The governor notes that China has 5,000 miles of high-speed rail, and even Morocco is constructing a system. By building the nation's largest transportation project, California would alleviate the need to spend $100 billion on 3,000 miles of new roads. That's the premise. Construction is set to begin later this year.
All of it together - the rerouted rivers, the train moving at the speed of Superman, taxing the rich and welcoming a Latino majority - is a road not taken by any other state. You can laugh at the sunbaked barbarians, even wish them ill. But you should not fail to see in their fledgling renaissance another chapter in the American experiment, no less daring than the Golden Gate Bridge or the castle that Hearst erected at continent's edge.
As Brown said, "What is this but the most diverse, creative and longest-standing mass migration in the history of the world - that is California."

        
Fall of the Wild
        
Wedding Bells
        
Oh, California
        
The Sequester App
        
Leading the Way Out of Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); STATE PARKS (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); HISTORY (65%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); TAX INCREASES (52%); JOB CREATION (51%) Budgets and Budgeting; California; Citizen Kane (Movie); High-Speed Rail Projects; Infrastructure (Public Works); Timothy Egan

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



935 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Small Cars That Are Far From Frumpy

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Carmakers are unveiling luxury in smaller packages 

 BODY:
From tail-finned Cadillacs to three-ton S.U.V.'s, luxury vehicles have always pushed the limits of size and mass. But now carmakers are unveiling luxury in smaller packages. 
At this year's New York auto show, the Audi A3 is part of a wave of small yet deluxe cars coming to showrooms in America. The Audi, like a lot of these half-pint luxury models, starts for around $30,000, but it still offers that designer badge and status, along with many of the features you might expect in a larger, more expensive luxury car: leather, navigation, a Wi-Fi connection, a Bang & Olufsen sound system and even plug-in hybrid and diesel models.
"If you look at Audi, nearly 50 percent of our sales come from Gen X and Gen Y," says Scott Keogh, president of Audi of America. "And what we see is that they're looking for appropriately sized cars with high design and high technology. So that's why we see a good fit here."

        
A Bentley That Looks Like, Well, a Bentley
        
Audi Escapes the Hatch With the A3
        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
No Funny Stuff Here: Porsche 911 Then and Now
        
Subtle Changes, and Better Fuel Economy, for the Durango

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); GENERATION X (68%); GENERATION Y (68%) Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; automobiles; Bang & Olufsen; Luxury Goods; New York International Auto Show; Automobiles; 2013 New York Auto Show; Auto Shows

COMPANY: AUDI AG (91%); BANG & OLUFSEN A/S (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Audi Division of Volkswagen AG; Bang & Olufsen

TICKER: NSU (FRA) (91%); BUOB (FRA) (55%); BO (CPH) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



936 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Weak Job Market Leaves City's Unemployment Rate Flat

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: A school bus strike and Wall Street layoffs contributed to the weak market last month and kept New York City&#8217;s unemployment rate well above the nation&#8217;s, the State Labor Department reported. 

 BODY:
 A strike by school bus drivers and layoffs on Wall Street contributed to a weak job market in New York City last month and kept the city's unemployment rate well above the nation's, the State Labor Department reported on Thursday. 
 The city's unemployment rate was 9.1 percent in February, unchanged from January. The national rate fell in February to a four-year low, 7.7 percent.
 The city's private sector usually swells by thousands of jobs in February, but last month added a total of just 700, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the State Labor Department. After adjustments for the usual seasonal gain, that increase will look like a substantial decline.
 The statewide figures, which are already seasonally adjusted, showed a loss of 7,700 private-sector jobs last month. The February report was so weak that state officials chose to focus again on what happened in January, when the state's private-sector tally reached a revised high of almost 7.42 million jobs.
 The state's unemployment rate remained at 8.4 percent in February. More than 800,000 state residents were unemployed, but fewer than half of them collected unemployment insurance payments.
 Benefits for the long-term unemployed have been shrinking. Some state residents stand to collect a maximum of 63 weeks of payments, down from a high of 99 at the depths of the last recession.
 New York City had led the state back from the recession, adding jobs at a significantly faster pace than that of the rest of the nation. But that trend has flipped: In the past 12 months, the number of private-sector jobs in the city has risen by 1.5 percent, compared with a national growth rate of 1.9 percent.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials have emphasized the job-growth numbers while dismissing the high unemployment rate as a flawed measure of the city's health. They also have taken credit for making the city less dependent on Wall Street.
 But the jobs that Wall Street is shedding pay much more, on average, than the jobs that are being added in health care, education and tourism-dependent businesses like hotels and restaurants.
 Education and health services added about 5,900 jobs in February, while Wall Street lost about 1,300 jobs. A monthlong strike by school bus drivers contributed to a loss of about 6,600 jobs in the transportation and warehousing industries. One of the biggest increases last month came in the local government sector, which added 7,600 jobs, according to the Labor Department. 

        
Statistics Challenge Cuomo's Claim of Record Job Growth
        
Growing Work Force Accounts for High Jobless Rate, Study Says
        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat
        
City's Unemployment Rate Dipped in October
        
City Gains Jobs, but Unemployment Rises

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Labor and Jobs; Labor Department (NYS); New York City; Unemployment; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



937 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Tax-Time Refund Loans vs. Lines of Credit

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Jackson Hewitt says it isn&#8217;t making tax refund anticipation loans this year. 

 BODY:
The plethora of tax-time financial products aimed at lower- and moderate-income Americans can be mind-boggling. Adding to the complexity, there's even some disagreement over what they should be called. 
Earlier this week, I wrote abouta report from the National Consumer Law Center, which outlined new alternatives to tax-refund-anticipation loans - high-cost, short-term loans made to consumers who pay them back when they get their income tax refunds. Such loans are much less prevalent now, in part because of a federal crackdown on banks that made many of the loans.
But the center's report noted that some tax preparers are offering new twists on the loans using nonbank partners, and included the tax preparation firm Jackson Hewitt on its list. But a Jackson Hewitt representative got in touch by e-mail to say that the company is not, in fact, offering refund-anticipation loans this tax season.
"We are committed to full client disclosure regarding all fees and charges associated with all tax-related financial products," Alan Varnson, vice president for customer acquisition for Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, said in an e-mail.
Earlier this year, though, Jackson Hewitt began offering aline of creditof up to $1,000, called SmartLine, that may be used as an advance on a tax refund. SmartLine is offered through Jackson Hewitt by an outside company, called BillFloat.
In a follow-up e-mail, a Jackson Hewitt representative defined a refund-anticipation loan as a loan "provided by a bank to an approved applicant that was secured by their anticipated tax refund."
The SmartLine product, it said, is a line of credit, "not to be confused with a loan on an anticipated tax refund amount," adding, "It has no connection with the applicant's tax refund and is open to any BillFloat applicant throughout the year."
But Jackson Hewitt's own Facebook site makes a link between tax season and the line of credit. "By coming to our office and allowing us to prepare your tax return, you will have the opportunity to provide certain tax return information to BillFloat," says a question and answer on the Facebook site. "This information will help verify your identity and ability to repay."
 Chi Chi Wu, a staff attorney at the consumer law center, called the difference "a matter of semantics." 
SmartLine does carry significant fees. BillFloat charges a monthly fee of $6.25; plus a fee of 3 percent or $10, whichever is greater, each time the consumer accesses the line; as well as periodic interest of 35 percent. So if a consumer has the line of credit for two months and draws $500 from it at one time, the cost is $38.75, the law center says. That equates to an annual percentage rate of 93 percent for a comparable "closed end" loan, the law center calculates.

        
A New Variation of a Costly Tax-Time Offer
        
What to Do if Your W-2 Is Missing
        
Free Checking Still Widespread at Credit Unions
        
A Simpler Way to Complain About Student Loan Collections
        
Schwab Promotes Lower Cost of Its Index-Only 401(k)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (75%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Income Tax; Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc; National Consumer Law Center; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Rebates and Refunds

COMPANY: CONSUMER LAW CENTER (62%); JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc; National Consumer Law Center

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



938 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Retirements Contributing to Largest Senate Turnover in Decades

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The 113th Congress is the third consecutive legislative session to experience an unusually high number of Senate retirements. Those retirements have combined with defeats at the ballot box to create the largest turnover in the Senate in nearly 40 years. 

 BODY:
The announcement on Tuesday by Senator Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota, that he will not run for re-election in 2014 brings the total number of senators who have retired or resigned in the 113th Congress to eight.
While eight retirements is not a record, the 113th Congress is the third consecutive legislative session to experience an unusually high number of Senate retirements. Those retirements have combined with defeats at the ballot box to create the largest turnover in the Senate in nearly 40 years. 
Since the 1972 congressional elections, which is as far back as our database of retirements goes, the Senate has typically seen about six retirements in each Congress. Beginning in 2009, however, senators have been leaving at a significantly higher rate. Before the eight retirements - so far - in this legislative session, there were 10 in the 112th Congress and eight in the 111th. 

In total, 26 senators have retired since January 2009. That is just two retirements short of the recent peak, from 1991 through 1996, when 28 senators retired. And there is plenty of time left in the 113th Congress for more retirements to come.
But retirements don't tell the whole story of turnover. Though the 1990s still holds the edge in the number of retirements, the past few election cycles have brought in more Senate freshmen than that era did.
"This is the largest number of turnovers since the 1970s," Dr. Donald A. Ritchie, the Senate historian, said.
Senate.gov has data on freshman senators going back to 1914, the first election after the Seventeenth Amendment established direct election of United States senators by popular vote. The number of new freshman senators elected to each Congress was generally lower in the second half of the 20th century than it was in the first half. The average number of new senators per Congress in each decade ranged from 15 to 17 from 1914 through 1940, but it then fell to 10 or 11 through the first decade of the 21st century.
The 1970s were an exception. The era immediately after Watergate saw a jump in retirees, which contributed to an increase in Senate freshmen. There were 18 new senators elected in 1976, 20 in 1978 and 18 in 1980.
The current period - beginning with the 2008 elections - have seen a similar, though slightly smaller, jump in new senators. Fourteen freshman were elected to the Senate in 2008, followed by 16 newcomers in 2010 and 12 in 2012. 
In part, the current turnover is a generational shift. "People who came [to Washington] in the late 1970s and early 1980s - the last major turnover - are now leaving themselves," Dr. Ritchie said. "Every 20 or 30 years, there's just a large crop of people who come in at the same time and so they also tend to leave at the same time." 
Some also argue that more senators are retiring because, as David Karol, an associate professor in American Politics at the University of Maryland, said, "Post-Congress is a lot more lucrative then it used to be." Legislators can make a lot more money in the private sector or lobbying their former colleagues. 
Finally, some contend that increased partisanship has made the Senate less hospitable. When Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine retired last year, she pointed to "political paralysis" as the main reason.
Whatever the cause, the eight retirements so far in the 113th Congress mean that we should continue to see more turnover into the 2014 elections.

        
Akin Comments Could Swing Missouri Senate Race
        
Which Republicans Might Support Reid's Debt Bill?
        
How Will Webb's Retirement Affect Virginia Democrats?
        
Obama Has Lost Advantage Over G.O.P. on Economy
        
An Unusually Partisan Confirmation Vote

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); HISTORY (65%) 113th Congress; Congress; retirements; Senate; Tim Johnson; Politics

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013



939 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Menino to End Long Run as Boston Mayor

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Boston&#8217;s longest-serving mayor says it&#8217;s time to go, and people are already comparing him to Ted Williams. 

 BODY:
 BOSTON - Mayor Thomas Menino, the longest-serving mayor in Boston history, has decided not to seek re-election this year.
Mr. Menino, 70, who has been mayor for the last two decades, is planning to announce his decision Thursday afternoon at Faneuil Hall, a historic site reserved for important ceremonial occasions but not the kind of place where Mr. Menino has announced his re-election bids for his previous five terms.
"When you have something you really loved you lived 24/7 last 20 years, it's tough to say no, but there's a time and place for everything," Mr. Menino told reporters outside his home Thursday morning. "I'm excited about it. It's a sad day, but, it's a day that will always come in your career." 
Mr. Menino was hospitalized for several weeks late last year with a variety of ailments, including diabetes. But he put up a feisty front when questioned about his plans to run again. The uncertainty surrounding his intentions had frozen many political egos in this highly political city; challenging the mayor has long been perceived as a career-ending move, given the strength of his political organization and his ability to raise money.
A Boston Globe pollearlier this week showed he remained immensely popular and that he would trounce the only major candidate, City Councilor John Connolly, who had announced his candidacy regardless of the mayor's decision. The poll affirmed the finding of previous polls - that more than half of the city's constituents had met the mayor personally, an astounding feat for the chief executive of a major American city.
But the poll also showed that voters were concerned about his health and ambivalent about returning him to office for an unprecedented sixth term. Only 43 percent said they wanted him to run again, and 36 percent said they did not.
He leaves office with Boston on the upswing of the economic recovery. Commercial and residential building is booming across the city, more people are moving in to Boston than are moving out and the city is riding high as the home of an innovative economy, particularly attractive to technology start-ups.
The longevity of Mr. Menino's tenure and his bowing out on a high note are already earning him comparisons to Ted Williams, the legendary Red Sox "Splendid Splinter," who left at the top of his game.
"It will mark the end of an era, a watershed moment in Boston akin to Ted Williams' retirement after his two-decade run at Fenway Park," wrote Andrew Ryan in The Boston Globe.
In Boston, there could be no higher accolade.
A suddenly open mayoral seat is likely to unleash a flood of pent-up ambition among politicians who have been stifled for nearly a generation. And a competitive mayoral race could easily eclipse the current special election to fill the Senate seat of John Kerry, who left to become President Obama's secretary of state. As news of Mr. Menino's decision broke Wednesday night, first on Twitter by David Bernstein of the defunct Boston Phoenix, it distracted many of those attending a debate with the Senate candidates in Needham. 
The Senate race - the third since 2010 - had only seemed to highlight a sense of voter fatigue, with vast segments of the public undecided and analysts predicting a low voter turnout in the Senate primaries on April 30. But a rough-and-tumble mayor's race could get the adrenaline flowing again. Mr. Menino began his hold on City Hall in 1993 but there has not been an open mayor's race here since 1983.
Mr. Menino had until May to announce whether he was seeking re-election, and all indications were that he might wait until the last minute. But his announcement now suggests he was listening to those who implored him to make his intentions known sooner rather than later to allow his potential successors to have as fulsome a debate as possible.
The Boston Herald reported Thursday that Mr. Menino had conducted his own poll at the end of February to help him decide whether to run again.
"The disclosure that Menino was conducting a poll, even while insisting he was worrying only about getting better, paints a behind-the-scenes picture of the 70-year-old mayor agonizing over whether his popularity might be slipping because of his health battles," The Herald said. 
The paper quoted Paul Maslin, the mayor's pollster, as saying that Mr. Menino had told him: "I just want to know after the last three or four months where do I really stand before I have to make a decision."
The poll showed that 80 percent of voters had a favorable opinion of him, but it also said that 51 percent said he had been a good mayor but it was time for new leadership.

        
Markey and Lynch Outline Visions in Vying for Massachusetts Senate Seat
        
Polls Find Continued Support for Stricter Gun Laws and a Path to Citizenship
        
Polls Show Consistent Gains in Support for Same-Sex Marriage
        
Before Obama Trip, Polls Find Sympathy With Israel, and Doubts on Peace
        
Reactions on Twitter Differ From Public Polls, Pew Analysis Finds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CAUCUSES (71%); CITY LIFE (66%); DIABETES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Boston (Mass); Boston Globe; Elections, Mayors; Kerry, John; Mayors; Menino, Thomas M; Polls and Public Opinion; Williams, Ted S; The Caucus

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Boston Globe

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: Kerry, John; Menino, Thomas M; Williams, Ted S

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013



940 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5961 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (through May 26) William Matthew Prior (1806-1873), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician too. He was also an abolitionist who, at some risk to his reputation, painted portraits of black people; they are among his best works. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
&#x2605; Asia Society: 'The Artful Recluse: Painting, Poetry, and Politics in 17th-Century China' (through June 2) With the fall of the Ming dynasty in 1644, China's intellectual elite, many of them artists who worked in the imperial government, were thrown into a tailspin. Confucian ethics demanded filial devotion to the old regime. But how were they to demonstrate it? One way was to remove themselves from active life and signal their resistance through art. How they did so is the subject of this compellingly fine-grained painting show. Some artists sacrificed their lives for principles; others used recluse status as a career move. The emotional weight, psychological depth, and intellectual complexity of the work of this time is what comes through here. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death and Transformation in the Americas' (continuing) For generations, one of the first things visitors to Brooklyn Museum encountered was the Hall of the Americas, the two-story rotunda right off the main lobby. And when you were in it, you knew you were home. A few years ago during renovations, the museum put the Americas material in storage, but now it's back in new galleries on the fifth floor. The look is very different -- ultraminimalist Arctic white and sky blue -- but the 102 objects, from a collection that is a jewel in Brooklyn's crown, are utterly gripping. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
The Frick Collection: 'Piero della Francesca in America' (through May 19) Reuniting six panels from an altarpiece by Piero, this ravishing show approximates an intimate quattrocento chapel in the Frick's grand Oval Room. At the center of the installation is a seventh painting, the Clark Art Institute's ''Virgin and Child Enthroned With Four Angels,'' which comes from a different altarpiece in the painter's hometown, Sansepolcro, and exemplifies Piero's uncanny orchestration of figures, architecture and religious symbolism. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Gutai: Splendid Playground' (through May 8) The first large, in-depth examination of Japan's best-known postwar art movement is a mind-shifting event that brings together all the mediums it encompassed, brilliantly interwoven. The eccentrically made paintings suggest that Japan produced Abstract Expressionism's strongest second generation, the artists who most convincingly and directly extended Pollock's innovative drip technique. But the show reveals little-known precedents for Happenings, Minimalism and various strains of Post-Minimalism. It should permanently dislodge any notion of postwar modernism as a strictly Western phenomenon. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: The Hugo Boss Prize 2012: Danh Vo' (through May 27) Known mostly for attenuated, elliptical works, this year's Hugo Boss recipient opts for density and robustness with a display of some 4,000 items that once belonged to the artist Martin Wong (1946-99). Installed wonder-cabinet style in a shelf-lined gallery, the items range from art to artifact to tchotchkes; leap across cultures; and trickle from high to low, where racial stereotypes and kitsch frequently take over. It gives us an artist who has decided to function as a curator and an archaeologist and to keep the honor of his prize in motion. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zarina: Paper Like Skin' (through April 21) ''Paper is an organic material, almost like human skin,'' the artist Zarina Hashmi has said. In her exhibition at the Guggenheim, it's that and more: paper is sculpture, poetry, currency and, above all, a kind of permanent home for a nomadic spirit. Her art speaks poignantly, though sometimes opaquely, of relocation and exile; works like the 2001 woodcut ''Dividing Line'' reference the violent 1947 partition of India and Pakistan, while ''Ten Thousand Things,'' a set of small paper collages recreating works from her oeuvre, nods to Duchamp's museum-in-a-suitcase. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'No Country: Contemporary Art for South and Southeast Asia' (through May 22) American museums are increasingly collecting contemporary art from outside the Western Hemisphere, and the Guggenheim, supported by the financial corporation UBS is leading the pack. This inaugural show in the acquisitions campaign highlights work from South and Southeast Asia. Certain artists -- like Amar Kanwar, from India, and Araya Rasdjarmrearnsook, from Thailand -- have international reputations. Others, like the sculptor Tang Da Wu, from Singapore, and the painter Aung Myint, Myanmar, both born in 1940s, are less familiar. Nearly all the work of the roughly two dozen artists refers in partisan, political and personal ways to specific histories. The inclusion of those histories in our art museums is long, long overdue. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'James Nares: Street' (through May 27) Far from pedestrian, this show revolves around a ravishing, 61-minute video projection by the artist James Nares. Called ''Street,'' it consists of long, slow-motion pans of people going about their business on the sidewalks and streets of New York City. To go with it, Mr. Nares combed through the museum's permanent collection and came up with a fascinating array of thematically related photographs, prints, paintings and drawings having largely to do with human and vehicular traffic. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity (through May 27) The title may suggest a double-dose of pandering, but the show itself is a stunning combination of great paintings, ravishing gowns, historical clarity and pitch-perfect contextualizing. Demonstrating how the Impressionists and more conservative painters alike used the latest fashions to define their sitters as real people, it builds fascinating webs of new information and viewpoints around some of the best-known, most beloved paintings of all time, quite a few of which don't often travel to this country. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Path of Nature: French Paintings from the Wheelock Whitney Collection, 1785-1850' (through April 21) ''Sparkle with repose'' was the effect the British artist John Constable said he was after in his landscapes. His French contemporaries had the same idea. Today, Constable's a star. But León Pallière? Adrien Dauzats? Alexandre-Hyacinthe Dunouy? Only wonkish scholars are likely to know their names. Lucky for them, and for us, that one of those scholars is Whitney Wheelock III, who has a passion for French art from the years between neo-classicism and Romanticism, and a special love for gleaming little oil sketches done out of doors. In 2003 he gave his pictures to the Met, where 50 of them, along with some exquisitely funky genre paintings, make up this small gem of a show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 7) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Drawing Surrealism' (through April 21) This sensational show of 165 works by 70 artists from 15 countries traces the movement from its early automatist stirrings to the doorstep of Abstract Expressionism. Expanding the field of players with numerous new names, it also has a wonderful clarity, organized according to the techniques that the Surrealists commandeered (collage and photography), breathed life into (frottage, decalcomania and exquisite corpse) and frequently crossbred. It may be among the best encapsulations of Surrealism you will ever see. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
Morgan Library and Museum: 'Degas, Miss La La and the Cirque Fernando' (through May 12) Viewers catching their first glimpse of ''Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando'' will tend to agree with an early Degas biographer who called the painting ''one of his most surprising canvases.'' But after a close look at this curious 1879 picture of an aerialist hanging from a rope by her teeth (on loan from the National Gallery in London, and displayed with related studies, sketchbooks, circus programs and other ephemera), they will recognize Degas's skeptical eye and classical perspective on modern entertainment. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
Neue Galerie: 'German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces From the Neue Galerie Collection' (through April 22) German Expressionism was a messy, complicated movement, with numerous stylistic and philosophical variations. It's not easily corralled into a tidy overview, despite the best efforts of the Neue Galerie in this collection show. The installation sorts everything into two groups, using the rubrics of ''primitivism'' and ''modernity.'' ''Primitivism'' seems to mean the gallery of jarringly bright, vigorously brushy paintings by members of the Brücke and the Blaue Reiter; under ''modernity'' are Neue Sachlichkeit portraits by Otto Dix, George Grosz, Christian Schad and others, made with caustic humor and an eye for the grotesque. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (through May 26) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (through April 28) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. Whitney Museum of American Art, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum: 'Jay DeFeo: A Retrospective' (through June 2) The American artist DeFeo, who died in 1989 at 60, is famous for a single work, a gargantuan painting -- nearly 12 feet tall -- called ''The Rose,'' which she labored on exhaustingly for eight years, even after it had been extracted out of her San Francisco studio with a forklift. In the absence of other evidence, many people tend to see the piece as the sum of her accomplishment, but to this view the Whitney's tenderly shaped and visually absorbing survey says: No. There's more, and different. ''The Rose'' may have been the pivot point of her career -- DeFeo herself said as much -- but streams of inventive, if less spectacular work, work flowed toward it and from it. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
Miroslaw Balka: 'The Order of Things' (through April 13) The single rousingly portentous sculpture here involves black liquid continually gushing from suspended, industrial-size hoses into a pair of giant bins made of rusty steel plate. Since its title refers to a book by the French philosopher Michel Foucault, you know that big ideas are afoot. Maybe it is an allegory of the mindlessly self-perpetuating machinery driving modern civilization. Something like that. Gladstone, 530 West 21st Street, (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Jean-Michel Basquiat' (through April 6) It is not true that only the good die young, but Jean-Michel Basquiat did at 27 in 1988. He was not only good; at his best he was one of the most original artists of his generation. If that sounds like an extravagant claim, have a look at the high-quality selection of 59 of his bristling, faux-primitive paintings in this show. There is not a lot of art from the '80s that feels this alive today. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Johnson)
Al Held: 'Alphabet Paintings' (through April 20) Al Held (1928-2005) was one of the last and best of the big-impact abstract painters to emerge from the postwar era. ''Alphabet Paintings'' is an exhilarating show of seven paintings dating from 1961 to '67, a transitional period during which Mr. Held based compositions on simple, geometric shapes and, more remarkably, letters of the Roman alphabet. At 8 ½ by 12 feet, ''The Yellow X'' (1965) is spectacular. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Johnson)
Zanele Muholi: 'Faces and Phases' (through April 6) Since 2006, this South African artist has been making photographic portraits of black lesbians and transgendered people in her home country and in places she travels. Her first New York solo includes 29 beautiful pictures from 2011 and 2012. The format is uniform, with all subjects seen at half-length, often against a patterned ground. Consistent throughout is the direction on the gaze: straight at the camera, with looks that convey self-assurance, defiance (there are many folded arms), sadness, and suspicion. Yancey Richardson Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (646) 230-9610, yanceyrichardson.com. (Cotter)
'Virginia Overton' (through April 6) In this spare but beautiful show two very different conceptions of sculpture -- as environment and as object -- create a spare but satisfying interplay of the five senses. A large wall covered with rough red cedar planks mimics painting and alters the entire space, tilting it on end, while exuding that bracing cedar smell. An eccentric fountain gives the term ''hot tub'' new meaning, emitting sound and steam while using the most luxurious of all bathroom fixtures. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Painted on 21st Street: Helen Frankenthaler from 1950 to 1959' (through April 13) As revealed by this fabulously unruly exhibition, the little-known work leading to Frankenthaler's 1952 ''Mountains and Sea'' famous cornerstone of color Field painting -- should be an immutable part of art history. Equally inspiring is the display of the better-known varieties of wild beauty that it unleashed. Altogether we see a fearless young woman, unencumbered by rules or ideology, making free with painting's materials and history, bending other artists' styles and motifs to her own highly individual expressive needs. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Dieter Roth. Björn Roth (through April 13) Concentrating on the collaborations of the Swiss-German maverick Dieter Roth (1930-98) and his son Bjorn, this sprawling show adds a veneer of class to the inauguration of Chelsea's latest oversize trophy gallery. Numerous large, messy works noisily navigate the border between art and life. But the best does so quietly: the 128-monitor video piece ''Solo Scenes'' simply records the elder Roth living out life in his studio-home in Basel. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Other
'Beat Memories: The Photographs of Allen Ginsberg' (through April 6) During two periods in his life -- from the early 1950s to about 1964 and from the early '80s until his death in 1997 -- the poet Allen Ginsberg made photographs and added handwritten captions. Images of his now famous pals, including the writers Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Gregory Corso, as well as Neal Cassady, their logorrheic muse, make this show required viewing for Beat fans. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
Nancy Dwyer: 'Painting and Sculpture, 1982-2012' (through April 7) Ms. Dwyer's sculptures in the form of three-dimensional words were among the most incisively political works of the late 1980s and '90s. With its mahogany cabinetry topped by glass over green leather, ''Desk of Envy'' (1988) resembles a piece of corporate furniture except that it is constructed to spell the word ''envy'' in bold block letters legible from above. It resonates anew in light of the Occupy Wall Street movement as do many other works in this potent retrospective. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, (718) 937-0727, flcart.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
'Albrecht Dürer: Master Drawings, Watercolors, and Prints from the Albertina' (through June 9) Albrecht Dürer had it all: the eye of a Raphael, the brains of a Leonardo, the looks of a cleaned-up Kurt Cobain. Traditionally, the category of great artist implies great painter, and Dürer was that, though there's reason to think that he was at his most inventive, involved and expansive in his works on paper. Evidence for that argument is in this startlingly generous loan exhibition of more than 100 works on paper that includes some of his best known images. National Gallery of Art, on the National Mall, between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Portland Museum of Art: 'Lois Dodd: Catching the Light' (through April 7) This modest, but revelatory exhibition pays overdue tribute to an artist who has spent some 60 years quietly painting her immediate surroundings with an insistent, sometimes daring economy and a startling range of brushwork and styles, from nearly trompe-l'eoil to nearly abstract. A wonderful understanding of color and light provide some of the through lines, as does an attraction to nature, homey architecture and windows, and a conviction that pictorial space is one of painting's central materials and great mysteries. Seven Congress Square, (207) 775-6148, portlandmuseum.org. (Smith)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through April 28) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'Frozen Lakes' (closes on Sunday) The 1977 ''Pictures'' show at Artists Space caught a trend in the bud, with work based on images pulled, with cool detachment, from films, television and magazines. ''Frozen Lakes'' is ''Pictures'' updated for the digital age. Pop culture, drama and coolness are still in play, but the source for much of the imagery is now the Internet. And the emphasis is less on where the images come from than on where they're going and how: everywhere, in continuous data streams. Among the several interesting young artists, Ed Atkins, Charlotte Prodger and James Richards are standouts. Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3970, artistsspace.org. (Cotter)
Gert & Uwe Tobias: 'Untitled '13' (closes on Saturday) The work of these super-talented twin brothers has taken a wonderful turn for the Gothic-Surrealist. Team Gallery's Wooster Street space is filled with woodblock paintings of strange goings-on in rich colors that manage to look new and also rather old and Germanic, along with small sculptural exquisite corpses that cleverly use found ceramic vessels as bases (or bodies) for roughly modeled heads. At Grand Street gallery scores of mixed media works on paper reveal sources (mostly magazine images) that continue the great color and implicitly theatrical stagelike space. Team Gallery, at 83 Grand Street, near Wooster Street, and at 47 Wooster, SoHo, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com. (Smith)
Donald Judd/Barnett Newman: 'Studio International, February 1970' (closes on Friday) This presentation of a telegram, a manuscript, several periodicals and two prints could almost be the work of some archive-mad young artist. It traces the path of an article about Barnett Newman from Donald Judd's typewriter in 1964 (the same year he wrote ''Specific Objects,'' the most famous article not about Minimalism) to its appearance in print in a 1970 issue of Studio International. There are special requirements before and after, evidence of Judd's famous intransigence. Specific Object/David Platzker, 601 West 26th Street, Room M285, Chelsea, (212) 242-6253, specificobject.com. (Smith)
MoMA PS1: 'Jeff Elrod: Nobody Sees Like Us' (closes on Monday) Using a title that gives anyone involved with art something to live up to, this computer-prone painter abandons his characteristic off-kilter geometries for four allover paintings of soft, smoky wafts of green, brown or gray whose fuzzy, camouflagelike patterns refuse to come into focus. Installed one to a wall in a small, pristinely white gallery, they form an environment whose visual cross-fire makes the act of seeing thrillingly visceral. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (closes on Monday) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (closes on Sunday) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Story Lines: Tracing the Narrative of ''Outsider'' Art' (closes on Saturday) This stunning show of 23 American and European self-taught and outsider artists might be said to propose a canon of the genre. Many of the classics are here -- most born in the 19th century -- starting with Bill Traylor; Anna Mary Robertson Moses, better known as Grandma Moses; and Adolf Wölfli, and represented by outstanding works. The portrait of his implacable spouse by the great French naïve Camille Bombois (1873-1970) is alone worth the trip. Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 245-6734, gseart.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (closes on Sunday) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRIVATE COLLECTION, NEW YORK) (C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ETHICS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GHANA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



941 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Riding Wave of Popularity, Craft Brewers Ask Congress for a Tax Cut

BYLINE: By ANDREW SIDDONS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- They came to an opening night beer blast at the National Air and Space Museum, 4,000 strong in baseball caps and T-shirts, to look at the Wright Brothers' airplane and drink Citizen by DC Brau, which also makes a wryly named hometown brew, Corruption.
Craft beer brewers marched on Washington this week for their industry's first conference in the nation's capital. They were there to engage in a local pastime that goes pint in hand with drinking: lobbying. As part of the conference, hundreds of small-scale brewers met with Congressional staff members to press for a tax cut that they say would make it easier for them to brew more beer and hire more workers.
''For every 31 gallons that we brew, $7 goes to Uncle Sam,'' said Jeff Hancock, a co-founder of DC Brau, one of five craft breweries that have opened in the District of Columbia and its close suburbs in the last two years, joining dozens more in the rest of Virginia and Maryland. 
Washington is just one of many places where craft brewing is booming.
''We are the victims of our own success,'' said Patrick Conway, owner of the Great Lakes Brewing Company in Cleveland. Mr. Conway brought a delegation of 12 employees to Washington to network and publicize his brews with tap takeovers at local bars. ''We're always being courted by distributors,'' he said. ''It's not our intention to sell in every state, but we are flattered.''
The Brewers Association, which organized the conference, says 409 small breweries and brew pubs opened in the United States in 2012, up 18.5 percent from the year before. Craft beer's success defies the economic conditions businesses have faced since the recession, largely because it is considered an affordable luxury.
''Beer is sort of a recession-proof industry,'' said Jill McCluskey, a professor of agricultural economics at Washington State University. ''In bad economic times, it's something that people can still afford.''
With overall beer sales up 1 percent in 2012 after shrinking by about the same margin in 2011, most of the growth has been among specialty brewers. Their share of the market grew to 6.5 percent in 2012, from 5.7 percent in 2011. The $10.2 billion spent on craft beer represented 10.2 percent of money spent on all beer in 2012.
The small beer makers were out in full force at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the site of the Craft Brewers Conference, where they occupied 240,000 square feet, more than four football fields, for their trade show. Hop growers and malt makers began serving beers that used their products at 11:30 a.m. on Wednesday and Thursday while hundreds of the industry's suppliers displayed fermenters, tap handles and neon bar signs.
The growth has not been lost on politicians. The bipartisan House Small Brewers Caucus, which has 116 members from 35 states, has introduced the Small Brewer Reinvestment and Expanding Workforce Act, or Small BREW Act.
Commercial beer makers pay a federal tax on every barrel of beer they produce. It is a progressive tax: small breweries, producing fewer than two million barrels a year, pay $7 on their first 60,000 barrels. For every 31-gallon barrel above 60,000, they pay $18. Only about 100 craft breweries in the United States produce more than 15,000 barrels a year. About 95 percent of craft breweries and brew pubs produce less than that. Bigger brewers, like Anheuser-Busch InBev, which produced 98.5 million barrels in 2011, pay $18 for every barrel.
The Small BREW Act would reduce the tax on the first 60,000 barrels to $3.50. For every barrel beyond 60,000 but before two million, the tax would be $16. After two million, breweries would pay the full $18 tax. Any brewery that produces fewer than six million barrels a year -- which includes the bigger craft players, like the Boston Beer Company, maker of Samuel Adams, which turned out 2.7 million barrels last year -- would be eligible for the tax reduction.
Not everyone thinks the tax cut would be a good thing. The current tax levels were put in place in 1991 and have not changed since then. A rate that kept pace with inflation would make the taxes closer to $12 for small brewers and $30 for the big beer makers.
''The taxes that are included in the price of the beer do not begin to pay for the social costs of drinking,'' said Phillip J. Cook, a professor of economics and public policy at Duke University, who thinks the failure to keep up with inflation means beer is now too cheap. ''It would be reasonable to let consumers decide what they wanted to drink and not to foster this segment of this particular industry through this kind of industrial policy or tax policy.''
A report on reducing the nation's budget deficit from the Center for American Progress suggests raising the excise tax to about $50 a barrel of beer regardless of the brewery's size, which would bring in billions of dollars in additional revenue. If the Small BREW Act were to pass, it would cost the government $67 million a year at current levels, according to the Brewers Association.
Representative Jim Gerlach, a Pennsylvania Republican whose state is home to more than 100 small breweries, introduced the bill with Representative Richard E. Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat. Mr. Gerlach said the tax cut would have a positive economic impact because the brewers would use the windfall to expand. ''They take every bit of loose change that they can get and plow it back into their operations,'' he said.
The economic impact on small brewers could be significant. But in most of Congress it is viewed as little more than a ''rounding error,'' Bob Pease, the chief lobbyist for the Brewers' Association, said. The tax has little chance of being considered outside of broader tax reform legislation, he added.
Even without the tax cut, Mr. Pease says he thinks the growth of the craft beer industry is set to continue.
''They are going to hire people whether or not the bill passes,'' he said. There are more than 1,200 breweries in the planning stages; if those all went into business it would increase by more than 50 percent the 2,347 brew pubs and breweries currently operating.
But the growth of the industry has been so explosive that some in the industry now say that a slowdown is inevitable, regardless of what happens on the tax front.
''Eventually,'' said Herbert Sachs, the president of Saxco International, a company that makes glass bottles for the beer industry, ''that ends in too much beer sloshing around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: There were many samples at the Craft Brewers Conference in Washington. (B1)
A beer party was held at the National Air and Space Museum.
 DC Brau is one of five craft breweries that have opened in the District of Columbia and its closest suburbs in the last two years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BREWERIES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); TRADE SHOWS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); SALES FIGURES (70%); TAKEOVERS (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); AGRICULTURE (61%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (90%); CRAFT BREW ALLIANCE INC (85%); GREAT LAKES BREWING CO (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (91%)

TICKER: BREW (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



942 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: The Supreme Court, Throwing Curveballs

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
THE BASEBALL TRUSTA History of Baseball's Antitrust Exemption
By Stuart BannerIllustrated. 283 pages. Oxford University Press. $29.95.
Cases concerning baseball seem to turn the minds of lawyers and judges to mush.
Consider Justice Arthur J. Goldberg, best known for allowing himself to be hustled off the Supreme Court and over to the United Nations in 1965 by the famously persuasive President Lyndon B. Johnson. Seven years later Mr. Goldberg returned to face his former colleagues, now as a lawyer for a baseball player named Curt Flood.
''Goldberg gave one of the worst performances anyone present had ever seen,'' Stuart Banner writes in his splendid history of the legal system's lurching and incoherent engagement with the national pastime. Mr. Goldberg asked the Supreme Court to reconsider earlier rulings exempting baseball from federal antitrust laws. Thanks to that immunity, owners could use the reserve clause to bind a player to one team for an entire career. 
In a decision not distinguished by airtight logic, the court ruled against Mr. Flood, a veteran St. Louis Cardinals outfielder who objected to being traded to the Philadelphia Phillies and wanted to take his chances in an open market. The exemption, Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote for a five-justice majority, was ''an exception and an anomaly'' that applied to baseball but not to other sports. Baseball, he said, had ''unique characteristics and needs.''
Had the majority opinion in Flood v. Kuhn (Bowie Kuhn was the commissioner of baseball) been merely poorly reasoned, it would not have been long remembered. But Justice Blackmun opened with what Mr. Banner generously describes as ''a long, rhapsodic and highly idiosyncratic history of baseball, written in a style rarely seen in judicial opinions.''
Its centerpiece was a list of the names of 88 famous figures from the history of the game, in no particular order and to no particular end. They were, Justice Blackmun wrote, ''names, celebrated for one reason or another, that have sparked the diamond and its environs and that have provided tinder for recaptured thrills, for reminiscence and comparisons, and for conversation and anticipation in-season and off-season.''
Two justices in the majority found the ode to the sport an embarrassment and refused to sign that part of the opinion. Justice Blackmun himself was still kicking himself years later -- for leaving Mel Ott off his list.
The case did not burnish the reputations of any of the main participants. Mr. Goldberg, for his part, vowed that he would never again argue before the Supreme Court. He was true to his word.
Mr. Banner's book, ''The Baseball Trust,'' does not dispute that baseball is intellectual kryptonite for lawyers. But it is a valuable corrective to the widely held view that the romance of baseball was the main reason that courts have treated it with special solicitude. Baseball's status was, in fact, the product of happenstance of a sort surprisingly commonplace in the law.
''At each step, judges and legislators made decisions that were perfectly sensible when considered one at a time,'' he explains, ''but this series of decisions yielded an outcome that makes no sense at all.''
Mr. Banner, who teaches law at the University of California, Los Angeles, is himself a sure-footed historian and a legal writer of exceptional grace and clarity. His evident love of baseball does not seem to cloud his judgment.
It would be hard to say that of Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, an avid fan. Called upon to decide a major antitrust challenge to organized baseball in 1915, he instead did nothing for a year, effectively destroying the fledgling league that had filed the suit and forcing it to settle.
The law would have required him to rule for the challengers, he later explained in open court, but he did not have the stomach to destroy a national institution. ''I decided,'' he said, ''that this court had a right, if not a right a discretion, to postpone the announcement of any such order.'' A few years later Judge Landis became the first commissioner of baseball.
The Supreme Court's own distinctive treatment of baseball began in 1922, when the court ruled that the sport was beyond Congress's power to regulate, because it was not interstate commerce. Writing for the majority, Justice Oliver Wendell Homes Jr. reasoned that baseball games themselves were local, and that the routine interstate travel of the players themselves was merely incidental.
That analysis is at odds with the modern understanding of the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, but it was in keeping with the legal thinking of the day. The court would no doubt have said the same thing about other professional sports, had it been asked. But baseball was the only team sport commercially successful enough to attract lawsuits at the time.
Nor did Justice Holmes's feelings about baseball affect the result, as he had none. ''There was nothing that did not interest him,'' one of the justice's law clerks said of his boss, ''except athletics.'' Mr. Banner corrects some misconceptions about the 1922 case, Federal Baseball Club of Baltimore v. National League. It did not create an exemption from antitrust laws but ruled, rather, that some sorts of activities were beyond Congress's power to regulate. Nor did it draw a distinction between business and sports, relying instead on a distinction between local and interstate activity.
By the time the Supreme Court next addressed baseball's legal status, in 1953, ''the entire structure of constitutional thought underpinning Federal Baseball Club had collapsed,'' Mr. Banner writes. So had, with the advent of radio and television, what little economic justification there had been for treating baseball as a purely local matter.
Nonetheless, in a slippery one-paragraph, unsigned opinion, the Supreme Court reaffirmed baseball's special status in Toolson v. New York Yankees. But the court subtly changed rationales. The earlier decision said that Congress was powerless to act. The new one said that Congress held the power to regulate baseball all along, but had, if only implicitly, declined to use it.
This was, Mr. Banner writes, nonsense, but it allowed the court to pass a hot potato back to Congress, which could now subject baseball to antitrust laws if it wanted to. The book examines, perhaps a little too thoroughly, the lobbying, hearings and proposals that followed. The exemption stood.
Two decades later the decision in Curt Flood's case upheld Toolson, adding the ripe introductory section on the glory of baseball and satisfying almost no one. ''Normally a court opinion provides justification for a statement of the law,'' Mr. Banner writes, ''but Blackmun's opinion did the opposite: it provided reasons for doubt.''
Free agency did come to baseball, and just a few years later. But it was a consequence of the economic counterweight of the players' union rather than judicial intervention.
Still, baseball continues to enjoy immunity from the antitrust laws in realms beyond the reserve clause. ''One of the strangest doctrines in our legal system,'' Mr. Banner concludes, ''is also becoming one of our oldest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Curt Flood, above, sliding into third, who filed suit in the 1970s to fight baseball's exemption from antitrust laws. (C21)
Kenesaw Mountain Landis sat on an issue to decide it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Stuart Banner
 Justice Harry A. Blackmun, baseball's rhapsodist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); JUDGES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



943 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Empirical Kids

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Twelve years ago, I wrote a piece for The Atlantic, called ''The Organization Kid,'' about the smart, hard-working, pleasant-but-cautious achievatrons who thrive in elite universities. Occasionally, somebody asks me how students have changed since then. I haven't been perceptive enough to give a good answer.
But, this year, I'm teaching at the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale, and one terrifically observant senior, Victoria Buhler, wrote a paper trying to capture how it feels to be in at least a segment of her age cohort. She's given me permission to quote from it. 
Buhler points out that the college students of 12 years ago grew up with 1990s prosperity at home, and the democratic triumph in the cold war abroad. They naturally had a tendency to believe deeply ''in the American model of democratic capitalism, which created all men equal but allowed some to rise above others through competition.''
Then came Sept. 11. That was followed by the highly moralistic language of George W. Bush's war on terror: ''Our responsibility to history is already clear: to answer these attacks and rid the world of evil.''
But Bush's effort to replicate the Reagan war on an evil empire lead to humiliation, not triumph. Americans, Buhler writes, ''emerged from the experience both dismissive of foreign intervention as a tool of statecraft as well as wary of the moral language used to justify it.''
Then came the financial crisis, the other formative event for today's students. The root of the crisis was in the financial world. But the pain was felt outside that world. ''The capitalist system, with its promise of positive-sum gains for all, appeared brutal and unpredictable.''
Moreover, today's students harbor the anxiety that in the race for global accomplishment, they may no longer be the best competitors. Chinese students spend 12-hour days in school, while American scores are middle of the pack.
In sum, today's graduates enter a harsher landscape. Immediate postgrad life, Buhler writes, will probably bear a depressing resemblance to Hannah Horvath's world on ''Girls.'' The hit song ''Thrift Shop'' by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis ''is less a fashion statement, more a looming financial reality.''
Buhler argues that the group she calls Cynic Kids ''don't like the system -- however, they are wary of other alternatives as well as dismissive of their ability to actually achieve the desired modifications. As such, the generation is very conservative in its appetite for change. Broadly speaking, Cynic Kids distrust the link between action and result.''
A Brookings Institution survey found that only 10 percent of young people agree with the statement, ''America should be more globally proactive.'' The Occupy movement, Buhler notes, ''launched more traffic jams than legislation.'' The Arab Spring seemed like a popular awakening but has not fulfilled its promise.
In what I think is an especially trenchant observation, Buhler suggests that these disillusioning events have led to a different epistemological framework. ''We are deeply resistant to idealism. Rather, the Cynic Kids have embraced the policy revolution; they require hypothesis to be tested, substantiated, and then results replicated before they commit to any course of action.''
Maybe this empirical mind-set is a sign of maturity, but Buhler acknowledges that the ''yearning for definitive 'evidence' ... can retard action. ... The multiplicity of options invites relativism as a response to the insurmountable complexity. Ever the policy buffs, we know we are unable to scientifically appraise different options, and so, given the information constraints, we stick with the evil we know.''
She suggests calling this state of mind the Tinder Effect, referring to the app that lets you scroll through hundreds of potential romantic partners, but that rarely leads to a real-life encounter.
Buhler's most comprehensive disquiet is with the meritocratic system itself. It rewards an obsessive focus on individual improvement: ''Time not spent investing in yourself carries an opportunity cost, rendering you at a competitive disadvantage as compared to others who maintained the priority of self.''
She wonders if the educated class is beginning to look at the less-educated class -- portrayed on TV in shows like ''Teen Mom 2'' and ''Here Comes Honey Boo Boo'' -- as a distant, dysfunctional spectacle. She also wonders if the mathematization of public policy performs a gatekeeper function; only the elite can understand the formulas that govern most people's lives.
I had many reactions to Buhler's dazzling paper, but I'd like to highlight one: that the harsh events of the past decade may have produced not a youth revolt but a reversion to an empiricist mind-set, a tendency to think in demoralized economic phrases like ''data analysis,'' ''opportunity costs'' and ''replicability,'' and a tendency to dismiss other more ethical and idealistic vocabularies that seem fuzzy and, therefore, unreliable. After the hippie, the yuppie and the hipster, the cool people are now wonksters.
And, yes, I gave her an A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLD WAR (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); TERRORISM (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



944 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Victim and Prosecutor Back Death Row Inmate's Bid for Resentencing

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- One morning in July 1995, Phyllis Taylor stood inside her best friend's house here, face to face with her stepbrother. He was holding a .22-caliber rifle, his eyes bloodshot red. Then he pulled the trigger.
Ms. Taylor survived -- the bullet came within one inch of her heart and lodged in her right shoulder. More than 17 years later, a scar the size of a nickel remains on her chest, but her anger has faded: She has forgiven her stepbrother, Duane E. Buck, 49, and has been trying to secure his release from Texas' death row.
''This is not an easy thing,'' said Ms. Taylor, 46, who visited him last month at the prison that houses death row in Livingston, Tex. ''It's very hard. I still have moments. But I know that I'm doing the right thing. The Bible says that I have to forgive, and that's just my key to my everyday living.'' 
Ms. Taylor is part of an unusual network of supporters who have been trying to halt Mr. Buck's execution. His advocates include leaders of the N.A.A.C.P., one of the lawyers who prosecuted him and a former governor of Texas. While many contested death-row cases center on guilt or innocence, Mr. Buck's case is different -- his guilt has never been disputed, but the testimony of a psychologist has raised questions about the role that race played in the jury's decision to sentence him to die by lethal injection.
Mr. Buck, who is black, was convicted of killing his former girlfriend Debra Gardner and her friend Kenneth Butler at Ms. Gardner's house the same morning in 1995 when he shot Ms. Taylor. Mr. Buck and Ms. Gardner had ended their relationship a week earlier, and he stormed into the house with a rifle and a shotgun. He shot Mr. Butler and then shot Ms. Gardner as she tried to flee outside, her two children looking on in horror, according to court documents.
At a sentencing hearing in May 1997, Walter Quijano, a former chief psychologist for the state prison system who had evaluated Mr. Buck, testified that race was one of several factors that could be used to predict whether a person would be a future danger to society. ''It's a sad commentary that minorities, Hispanics and black people, are overrepresented in the criminal justice system,'' Dr. Quijano said in the courtroom.
Dr. Quijano had been called to the stand by the defense, and ultimately found that the probability that Mr. Buck would commit future acts of violence was low. But under cross-examination, the prosecutor for the Harris County district attorney's office asked him about the various factors. ''You have determined that the sex factor, that a male is more violent than a female because that's just the way it is, and that the race factor, black, increases the future dangerousness for various complicated reasons,'' the prosecutor asked Dr. Quijano. ''Is that correct?''
''Yes,'' he replied.
In her closing argument, the prosecutor reminded the jury of the psychologist's testimony. ''You heard from Dr. Quijano, who had a lot of experience in the Texas Department of Corrections, who told you that there was a probability that the man would commit future acts of violence,'' she said.
Last week, a statement calling for a new sentencing hearing for Mr. Buck that was signed by Ms. Taylor and dozens of others -- including another of the prosecutors who had helped convict him, Linda Geffin -- was delivered to the Harris County district attorney, Mike Anderson. It was handed to him by Mark W. White Jr., a governor of Texas in the 1980s.
Mr. White and Mr. Buck's lawyers said that they believed his death sentence was a product of racial discrimination, and that Dr. Quijano's testimony -- and the prosecutor's emphasis on that testimony -- made the color of Mr. Buck's skin a factor in the jury's deliberations, violating his constitutional rights. In addition to their claims of racial bias, they said Texas was failing to follow through on a promise it had made to Mr. Buck.
In 2000, the attorney general at the time, John Cornyn, identified six capital cases in which Dr. Quijano had presented race-based testimony. Mr. Cornyn, now a United States senator from Texas, admitted that the state had erred in relying on such testimony in those and other cases, and that it was ''inappropriate to allow race to be considered as a factor in our criminal justice system.''
Mr. Buck's case was among the six. But he is the only defendant who has not been granted a new sentencing hearing. The others had all been on death row, and were ultimately resentenced to death after their new hearings. The state has opposed Mr. Buck's attempts to receive a new hearing, but did not oppose the requests for new hearings made by the five other defendants.
''I think that's what's caused the outrage,'' said a lawyer for Mr. Buck, Kate Black. ''Not only was race used, but they promised to rectify the situation, and then did for five individuals, but not for him.''
Mr. Buck's lawyers have filed an appeal, and are awaiting a ruling from the Court of Criminal Appeals.
It was the latest twist in his years of seeking a new sentence. In September 2011, the United States Supreme Court granted a last-minute temporary stay of execution -- Mr. Buck had eaten his last meal when he got the news -- but ultimately denied his appeal.
Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who wrote the majority decision, called Dr. Quijano's testimony ''bizarre and objectionable.'' But he wrote that the psychologist was called as a defense witness, and that Mr. Buck's lawyers, not the prosecutor, first presented Dr. Quijano's race-based testimony to the jury.
In court papers, lawyers for Attorney General Greg Abbott have made similar arguments, writing that Mr. Buck's ''constitutional rights were not violated because Buck himself presented the testimony about which he complains.''
Mr. White, a Democrat who oversaw the executions of 19 people as governor from 1983 to 1987, disagrees. ''It's a racially charged statement that has tainted the deliberations of the jury,'' he said. ''It doesn't matter which side said it. It's kind of like, once you got the skunk in the jury box, it doesn't matter who presented the witness.''
Dr. Quijano remains a state-licensed psychologist who testifies in criminal cases and has an office in Conroe, Tex. In an interview, he stood by his testimony, saying that his comments have been distorted and adding that he never said Mr. Buck would be a continuing threat because he is black.
''I was asked a question whether there is a relationship between race and violence or dangerousness,'' he said. ''The literature suggests that there is a correlation. So I had to say yes.'' He added: ''It's not because of the blackness of the person that is causing the violence. It is what goes with it. Poverty, the exposure to lack of education, exposure to criminal elements.''
Dr. Quijano said research supporting his views included the work of John Monahan, a psychologist and professor at the University of Virginia Law School and expert in the clinical prediction of violent behavior.
Dr. Monahan, however, said in an interview that the literature did not support more than a trivial association between race and recidivism. ''When you take into account the major risk factors for criminal recidivism, such as the number of prior convictions, age at first arrest, unemployment, education and substance abuse, race plays at most an extremely small role in predicting whether an offender will commit another violent crime,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phyllis Taylor has forgiven her stepbrother, Duane E. Buck, for a 1995 shooting that killed two and left a scar on her chest. ''This is not an easy thing,'' she said. ''But I know that I'm doing the right thing.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TEXAS DEPT. OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (77%); CAPITAL CRIMES (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); PRISONS (74%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (70%); JURY TRIALS (70%); VERDICTS (70%); WITNESSES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); GOVERNORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



945 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: As the Pace of China's Junk Bond Sales Grows, So Do Worries

BYLINE: By NEIL GOUGH

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- It has an all-too-familiar ring. Investors in search of better interest rates rush to risky, high-yield bonds, raising worries that the market is overheated.
But the concerns -- which have already been voiced about the $120 billion of European and American junk bonds issued this year -- are now being applied to the fledgling Chinese market.
While American and European companies have been selling high-yield debt for decades, Chinese businesses only recently started to tap into the junk bond market in earnest.
It's a sign that Chinese companies are growing up. As the country's economy continues to open up, private sector businesses have looked to foreign investment to finance their expansion efforts, rather than relying on hard-to-get loans from the state-controlled banks. 
The junk bond market in China took off this year. Although the deals still account for a small share of the global total, Chinese companies have sold $8 billion of high-yield bonds to overseas investors since January. That's up from $2.3 billion during the same period a year earlier, according to figures from Dealogic.
''Bond markets are booming because companies have had difficulty getting the level of debt they want out of banks onshore or offshore, and in tapping equity markets,'' said Nick Gronow, a senior managing director at FTI Consulting in Hong Kong and an expert in Chinese bankruptcies. ''So bonds have really taken up the slack.''
But the pace of growth is troubling to some analysts.
As investors have plowed into junk bonds across the globe, yields have plummeted. In the United States, rates on junk bonds have dipped below 6 percent, compared with historical payouts of roughly 10 percent or more.
The trend is similar in China.
Country Garden, a builder based in the southern city of Guangzhou, raised $750 million in January by selling 10-year bonds that paid 7.5 percent a year. In 2011, the company sold $900 million of seven-year bonds at a much higher 11.125 percent.
The borrowing costs for Kaisa Group Holdings, a commercial real estate company in the southern city of Shenzhen, have also dropped rapidly. In September, it sold $250 million of five-year bonds at 12.875 percent. By January, it was able to sell $500 million of bonds at 10.25 percent. This month, it issued new bonds at 8.875 percent.
''Chinese real estate issuance is happening for structural reasons: 50 percent of the population needs to be urbanized and housed, traditional funding from banks may be more restricted now, and global appetite for yield is on the rise,'' said Gregorio Saichin, the London-based head of emerging markets and high-yield, fixed-income portfolio management at Pioneer Investments. ''When you combine all the above factors with a massive refinancing exercise by Chinese property developers, you get this type of outcome.''
But it's a slim difference in yields for such disparate markets.
Chinese high-yield bonds have many of the same characteristics -- and risks -- as American debt. They tend to be sold by companies looking to finance ventures in new or untested areas or businesses that compete in industries where earnings are subject to volatile swings.
But the Chinese market has its own set of potential problems, and some analysts worry that investors aren't being properly compensated for the added layer of risks.
For one, the bulk of the high-yield bonds in Asia this year -- roughly half -- come from Chinese real estate companies. The fear is that the housing market, which has been booming, is a bubble that will eventually burst.
The industry is especially uncertain, given the periodic government intervention. On March 1, Beijing announced new measures to curb excess in the market, including the strict enforcement of a 20 percent capital gains tax on the sale of preowned homes.
''With the new leadership in China, people are still not sure which way things will go in terms of property policies,'' said Suanjin Tan, an Asia fixed-income portfolio manager based in Singapore at BlackRock. ''That also adds to the desire among these guys to remain cashed up, so they can take advantage of any wobbles in the market to pick up land on the cheap.''
Chinese junk bonds also have a unique structure, which could leave investors vulnerable.
Mainland China's domestic bond market remains largely off limits to foreign buyers. So most investors buy offshore Chinese bonds, which are issued through holding companies headquartered in places like the Cayman Islands.
The bonds tend not to be backed by the actual businesses and underlying assets in mainland China. That means foreign bondholders may have little legal recourse if a company defaults on its debt, especially if local banks or other Chinese creditors make claims.
Bondholders are now facing such difficulties with the bankruptcy of Suntech Power.
Earlier this month, Suntech, the world's largest solar panel maker, stopped making payments on $541 million in convertible bonds largely held by foreign investors, including Pioneer Investments. On March 21, a court in Wuxi, a city in eastern China, accepted a bankruptcy petition filed by eight Chinese banks against Suntech's main operating unit in China, a group that is seeking to recoup some of the money it lent to the company.
If previous Chinese bankruptcies are any indicator, those local banks will take priority in the so-called liquidation process, while foreign bondholders may lose everything. ''The greatest difficulty the bondholders have, when things go wrong, is what leverage do they actually have against the company?'' Mr. Gronow of FTI Consulting said.
The answer, usually, is not much. Mr. Gronow cites the case of Asia Aluminum, a manufacturer in the small southern city of Zhaoqing that collapsed in 2009 after accumulating more than $1.7 billion in debt.
After several months of often strained negotiations between the company, mainland and Hong Kong banks, foreign bondholders and the government, Mr. Gronow and his co-workers, acting as liquidators, worked out a deal that gave back Asia Aluminum's bank creditors in Hong Kong 100 percent of their capital.
Others were not so lucky. The owners of bonds issued by one offshore subsidiary received about 20 cents on the dollar. And investors in riskier ''payment-in-kind'' notes, a sort of hybrid bond where interest payments can be made by selling more debt, received only about 1 cent on the dollar.
''The thing you face as a liquidator dealing with these situations is how to maximize the recovery,'' Mr. Gronow said. ''Clearly, getting that sort of return, they were not very happy about it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: High-rises going up in Guangzhou, China. Developers are getting financing with junk bonds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); URBANIZATION (60%)

COMPANY: FTI CONSULTING INC (54%); KAISA GROUP HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: FCN (NYSE) (54%); 1638 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (72%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



946 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: No Longer Evoking a Divided Past, Memphis Parks Sow Battles in the Present

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
MEMPHIS -- Two bright metal signs long welcomed visitors here to the grassy bluffs overlooking the Mississippi River, near a cluster of Civil War cannons and historical plaques.
''Confederate Park,'' one read. ''Jefferson Davis Park,'' read the other, beside a statue of the Confederacy's president.
Last month, the Memphis City Council ordered the nameplates removed, leaving only empty frames. And ever since, a debate over that decision has flared -- the latest clash over Confederate memorials in the South. 
The Council voted to rename this city's downtown parks -- and a third honoring Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Confederate lieutenant general and the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan -- because it said the names evoked a racist past and were unwelcoming in a city where most of the population is black. Southern historical groups responded that the change dishonored troops who fought in the 1862 Battle of Memphis, a naval conflict in which the rebels suffered a major defeat.
''We have gotten hundreds and hundreds of e-mails complaining about the renamings,'' said Lee Harris, the council member who led the effort. ''I'm not afraid of our history. But I'm afraid of excluding some people from our parks and celebrating the conduct of the Confederacy.''
The dispute has grown, with the Ku Klux Klan planning to march through Memphis on Saturday, even as historians and religious leaders selected by the Council search for replacement names.
The Council chose temporary names that members said would not offend anyone: Memphis Park, Mississippi River Park and Health Sciences Park.
Mayor A. C. Wharton said reaching a compromise would be difficult. He angered Confederate groups last week by proposing that a statue of Ulysses S. Grant be erected to create balance and honor the Union troops.
''These are the growing pains of a democratic society,'' Mr. Wharton said. ''This is the South, remember. Traditions don't die that easy.''
Memphis, where 63 percent of the residents are black, is the latest city to grapple with the delicate issue of Confederate names and monuments. In Selma, Ala., a bust of General Forrest was attacked with cinder blocks and vandalized with graffiti before disappearing last year, and the city decided to block a Confederate historical group from replacing it. In Florida and Tennessee, public schools named for General Forrest have faced protests and petitions to rename them.
The renaming of the Memphis parks on Feb. 5 came in anticipation of a bill, since passed by the State Legislature and now awaiting action from Gov. Bill Haslam, that would make it harder for local governments to change the names of any parks or monuments honoring wars or war heroes. State Representative Steve McDaniel, the bill's sponsor and a Republican, said the bill would not retroactively affect Memphis's park names.
At a tense meeting last week, the nine members of the Parks Renaming Committee debated permanent replacement names for an hour but could not reach a consensus. The committee planned to propose new names later this spring.
One committee member, Doug Cupples, a history professor at Christian Brothers University here, called for keeping the original names but building more monuments to honor African-American leaders. ''I would like to see us adding to our history, not taking away from it,'' he said. ''We have a very expansive history, which includes some saints and some scoundrels.''
But the Rev. Keith Norman, a Baptist pastor who is on the committee, said restoring the park names would be like honoring Nazis in modern Germany. As Memphis tries to attract businesses, he said, ''this sends the wrong signal to a very diverse city as to what our values are.''
The city is now bracing for the Klan rally. Chris Barker, the leader of the Klan's Loyal White Knights chapter, said he had called members from across the country to march in Memphis on Saturday and attend a cross burning outside town. He did not give an estimate about how many members would attend.
''The Memphis City Council is basically trying to eradicate white people out of the history books across America,'' Mr. Barker said.
The last time the Klan held a rally in Memphis, in 1998, fighting broke out between the group and counterprotesters, and the police fired tear gas to disperse the crowd, arresting 20 people.
This time, the city has asked the public to avoid the march, and the Council has prohibited Klan members from wearing masks or carrying weapons. Mayor Wharton said the police would be monitoring the group closely.
Jim Strickland, a City Council member, said the entire parks debate had become a distraction from Memphis's real problems. The city has a shrinking population and a high unemployment rate, and it is trying to negotiate a complicated merger of the county and city school systems.
''We have many, many challenges in this city that are much more important than the names of these parks,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''We ought to compromise and get it behind us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lee Millar of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, top, at the former site of a Confederate Park marker. The Rev. Keith Norman, right, backed the renaming of three parks. At left, a statue of Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest in a park formerly named for him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT KING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VANDALISM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); CITIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS (59%)

PERSON: BILL HASLAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



947 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grows Despite Tax Rise and Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The American economy grew at a faster rate at the end of last year than previously estimated, providing evidence that growth might have accelerated in early 2013 despite higher taxes and cuts in government spending. 
The nation's gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the October-December quarter, the Commerce Department said on Thursday, slightly better than the previous growth estimate of 0.1 percent. The revision reflected stronger business investment and export sales.
Analysts say they think the economy is growing at a rate of around 2.5 percent in the current January-March quarter, which ends this week.
Steady hiring has kept consumers spending this year. A rebound in company stockpiling, further gains in housing and more business spending also likely drove faster growth in the first quarter.
The 0.4 percent growth rate for the gross domestic product, the economy's total output of goods and services, was the weakest quarterly performance in almost two years and followed a much faster 3.1 percent increase in the third quarter. The fourth quarter was hurt by the sharpest fall in military spending in 40 years.
For all of 2012, the economy grew 2.2 percent, after a 1.8 percent increase in 2011 and a 2.4 percent gain in 2010. Since the recession ended in mid-2009, the economy has expanded at subpar rates as a string of problems including higher gas prices and Europe's debt crisis has acted as a drag on the United States economy.
Growth appears to be strengthening this year even after taxes increased on Jan. 1 and automatic government spending cuts totaling $85 billion started to take effect on March 1. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the combination of tax increases and spending cuts could trim economic growth this year by about 1.5 percentage points. The office is predicting just 1.5 percent growth for 2013.
But the economy is showing signs of holding its own against the fiscal drag.
Employers have added an average of 200,000 jobs a month since November. That helped reduce the unemployment rate in February to 7.7 percent, a four-year low.
The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits did rise by 16,000 last week, the second straight weekly increase. But the longer-term trend in layoffs remained consistent with an improved job market.
Applications rose to a seasonally adjusted 357,000 for the week ending March 23, the Labor Department said Thursday. That is an increase from 341,000 the previous week, which was revised slightly higher.
The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose 2,250 to 343,000. Even with the gain, the average is only slightly higher than the five-year low of 340,750 attained the previous week. Economists pay closer attention to the four-week average because it smooths out week-to-week fluctuations.
The total number of people receiving some kind of unemployment aid is also down sharply. Nearly 5.5 million people were receiving unemployment aid as of the week ended March 9, the latest data available. That figure is up roughly 87,000 from the previous week but still well below the 7.2 million of a year earlier.
The government will release its initial look at first-quarter growth on April 26.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); EURO CRISIS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); EXPORT TRADE (55%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



948 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: The Tyranny of the Billable Hour

BYLINE: By STEVEN J. HARPER. 
Steven J. Harper, a former partner at the law firm Kirland & Ellis and an adjunct professor at Northwestern University, is the author, most recently, of ''The Lawyer Bubble: A Profession in Crisis.''

 BODY:
WILMETTE, Ill.
''THAT bill shall know no limits,'' wrote one DLA Piper lawyer to another in 2010 in what the firm is now calling ''unfortunate banter'' between associates about work for a client. But what is truly unfortunate is the underlying billable-hour regime and the law-firm culture it has spawned.
Lost in the furor surrounding one large firm's current public relations headache are deeper problems that go to the heart of the prevailing big law-firm business model itself. Regrettably, as with previous episodes that have produced high-profile scandals, the present outcry will probably pass and the billable hour will endure. 
It shouldn't. The billable-hour system is the way most lawyers in big firms charge clients, but it serves no one. Well, almost no one. It brings most equity partners in those firms great wealth. Law firm leaders call it a leveraged pyramid. Most associates call it a living hell.
In a typical large firm, associates earn far less than the client revenues they generate. For example, a client receives an invoice totaling the number of hours each lawyer spends on the client's matters, multiplied by the lawyer's hourly rate, say $400 for a junior associate. Most big firms require associates to bill at least 1,900 hours a year, according to a survey last year by NALP, the Association for Legal Career Professionals.
In 2009, DLA Piper announced that it had eliminated associates' billable-hour requirements in favor of a performance-based reward system. However, the firm's submission for the association's current NALP Directory of Legal Employers reports that it has a ''minimum billable hour expectation.'' In 2011, DLA Piper's ''average annual associate hours worked'' (both billable and nonbillable) was 2,462; the billable average was 1,831.
At $400 an hour, a hypothetical 2,000-hour-a-year associate generates $800,000 a year for the firm. But the firm typically pays the salaried lawyer one-fourth of that amount or less.
For associates, the goal is simple: meet the required (or expected) minimum number of billable hours to qualify for annual bonuses and salary increases. Billing 2,000 hours a year isn't easy. It typically takes at least 50 hours a week to bill an honest 40 hours to a client. Add commuting time, bathroom breaks, lunch, holidays, an annual vacation and a little socializing, and most associates find themselves working evenings and weekends to ''make their hours.'' Most firms increase financial rewards as an associate's billables move beyond the stated threshold.
For partners, billable hours are a key measure of associate and partner productivity. More is better. The resulting culture pushes everyone harder. Meanwhile, each partner strives to maximize individual client billings that he or she controls. Those billings in most cases determine a partner's annual share of the firm's profits. Their clients also become tickets to other firms. That makes partners reluctant to share too many important client responsibilities with their associates and fellow partners.
For clients, the consequences of the billable-hour system can be absurd. Fatigue through overwork can produce negative returns -- the critical document missed during a late-night marathon review; the error in the draft of a corporate filing that goes unnoticed.
Why do clients tolerate this perverse system? Periodically they rebel, especially during economic downturns, but those revolutions have been short-lived and unsuccessful. A 2011 survey by ALM Legal Intelligence, an online data service, found that alternative fee arrangements accounted for only 16 percent of revenues at the nation's largest law firms in 2010. Despite outcries for reform, the billable hour remains entrenched and the barriers to change are formidable. In many practice areas, including large and lucrative bankruptcy cases, prior court rulings (including the United States Supreme Court's 2010 opinion in Perdue v. Kenny A.) essentially require lawyers to use the billable-hour approach if they want to assure approval of their fee petitions.
There's a way out of the mess. But it requires clients to press harder for alternative fee arrangements, courts to back away from policies that embed the billable hour, law firm leaders to stop rewarding excessive associate hours and senior partners to consider the deleterious consequences of their myopic focus on short-term profit-maximizing behavior.
However it comes out, DLA Piper isn't the first law firm to endure a client billing controversy. While at a big firm, Webster Hubbell, a former Arkansas Supreme Court justice and associate attorney general for President Bill Clinton, was caught billing clients for time that he never worked. He went to prison. A partner in a prominent Chicago law firm got into trouble when someone wondered how he could bill almost 6,000 hours annually over four consecutive years. He couldn't.
In fact, a cottage industry has now developed in auditing outside law firm invoices to clients. Even so, as the deceit associated with the billable hour continues undetected, equally insidious consequences of the entire system endure. The episodes of public embarrassment will remain infrequent, and the triggers producing them will be idiosyncratic. DLA Piper's current notoriety began when a former client refused to pay his roughly $675,000 bill. The firm sued him last year, and its internal e-mails about the matter became subject to discovery. Before long, they landed on the front page of The New York Times.
DLA Piper said that the comments of its lawyers were ''an inexcusable effort at humor.'' What's really not funny is the toll that the flawed system is taking on a vital profession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW PRACTICE (90%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE RATES (78%); LAW FIRM ASSOCIATE SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); SCANDALS (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%)

COMPANY: DLA PIPER LLP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



949 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Developed Countries to Accelerate in First Half, O.E.C.D. Says

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Economic growth among developed nations is likely to accelerate in the first half of this year as strength in the United States and Japan help to compensate for the continuing malaise in Europe, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Thursday.
''The global economy weakened in late 2012 but the outlook is now improving for O.E.C.D. economies,'' the organization's chief economist, Pier Carlo Padoan, said in the report. 
The Group of 7 industrialized nations alone will grow at an annualized 2.4 percent in the first quarter and 1.8 percent in the second, the report estimated. G-7 nations shrank by 0.5 percent overall in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Mr. Padoan said ''bold policy action,'' particularly from the monetary authorities, was still needed to ensure growth, particularly in Europe.
The O.E.C.D., which is based in Paris, forecast that the U.S. economy would rebound in the first quarter to grow 3.5 percent on an annualized basis from the last three months of 2012, when growth was just 0.1 percent. The U.S. economy also appears to be on track for second-quarter growth of around 2.0 percent, the report said.
Japan, which under its new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has committed to attacking deflation with all the resources at its disposal, will rebound to 3.2 percent growth in the first quarter of 2013 and 2.2 percent in the second quarter, the organization said. Japan's economy grew just 0.2 percent in the October-December period.
But for Europe, hobbled by the seemingly endless euro crisis and budget-balancing measures, as well as joblessness and weak demand, ''a meaningful recovery is likely to take somewhat longer,'' the organization said. It predicted there would be a decided divergence between the economy of Germany, which is forecast to rebound strongly in the first half, and the rest of the region, which ''will remain slow or negative.''
It predicted that Germany would post first-quarter growth of 2.3 percent, accelerating to 2.6 percent growth in the second quarter. The German economy shrank 2.3 percent in the last three months of 2012.
France, the second-largest euro zone member after Germany, will probably remain moribund, the report said, shrinking by about 0.6 percent in the first quarter before eking out 0.5 percent growth in the April-June period. The French economy shrank 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter.
Britain will manage first-quarter growth of 0.5 percent and 1.4 percent in the second quarter, after slipping 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, the report said.
The organization said growth from developing nations would continue to outpace the advanced economies, with China alone expected to simmer along at a level ''well above 8 percent'' in the first six months of the year.
Noting the still-fragile state of confidence and widespread unemployment, ''bold policy action to support activity remains necessary in all major O.E.C.D. economies,'' Mr. Padoan said. Given tight government finances, monetary policy remains a key instrument for supporting demand,'' adding, ''even though monetary stimulus may not always be sufficient and carries its own risks.''
Jacques Cailloux, chief European economist at Nomura in London, said that the O.E.C.D.'s overall forecasts appeared to be ''considerably'' more optimistic than most private forecasters were expecting.
''For the U.S., Japan and Germany the first half looks to be very strong,'' he said.
Mr. Cailloux also said he expected the 17-nation euro zone economy to decline about 0.8 percent in 2013 from a year earlier, and that -- so far, anyway -- the boiling crisis in Cyprus had not led him to downgrade that already dismal view.
''Our forecast assumed some pretty large shocks and uncertainty,'' he said. ''Obviously Cyprus is a shock, it's greater than we expected, but so far it hasn't affected our broader outlook.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); DEFLATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



950 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Thailand Set to Sell Off Huge Stockpile of Rice

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
SUPHAN BURI, THAILAND -- Thailand is set to sell 500,000 metric tons of rice on world markets at a loss as it scrambles to offload a record stockpile deteriorating in warehouses filled with grain bought under a government program.
The two-year-old policy of paying farmers more for rice than it is worth on international markets is straining the country's finances, has cost Thailand its spot as world's top exporter of the grain and has provoked concern at the World Trade Organization. 
Although officials publicly deny that the politically sensitive effort is in a crisis, the government is looking at measures to stem ballooning losses that so far are estimated at $6 billion.
A Thai official also said this month that the government might cut the price it pays to a level closer to the value of rice in international markets, prompting an angry response from farmers. Bangkok may also stop buying lower-quality strains of the crop.
Rival producers like India and Vietnam, which have stepped into the vacuum caused by the exit of Thai exporters from the market, are watching closely in case Thailand dumps millions of tons of rice onto well-supplied world markets, causing prices to slump.
In questions brought before a World Trade Organization committee this week, the United States again challenged Thailand to explain how it planned to dispose of the rice.
Government stockpiles are estimated at a record 17 million metric tons of milled rice, nearly twice what Thailand used to export each year before the program was implemented two years ago.
An unraveling would be politically costly for Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, given that the program helped her win millions of rural votes when she was elected in 2011.
Farmers say payments have been delayed, with the state bank running the program complaining that it has received only a fraction of the funds needed.
''The government might have run out of money. I've had to wait for two months,'' said Prasert Chamsopa, 66, a farmer in the rice-growing province of Suphan Buri who had sold 35 tons from his paddy to the government.
According to the agricultural cooperative in the province, which is north of Bangkok, more than 1,000 farmers have experienced similar problems and were getting ready to stage coordinated protests with farmers in other provinces.
That leaves the government in a bind: It is committed to buying yet more rice, which it has no room to store and which it is unable to sell without suffering a huge loss.
One grade of Thai rice was offered at $545 per metric ton this week, down from $570 early this year but still above offers for the same grade from India of as much as $450 per ton and from Vietnam of about $400 a ton.
A Commerce Ministry official said that Thailand planned to release as much as 500,000 metric tons from older crops onto the market by April, and that the sale would be based on market prices.
''We accept that some of the rice is from the previous crop, which is quite old and the quality is not very good, so it's impossible to ask for very high prices,'' said Thikumporn Nartworathus, deputy director of the foreign trade department of the Commerce Ministry, adding that it would be sold via a tender or government-to-government deals.
Traders and industry officials say the government will suffer big losses if it sells now with plentiful supplies available from India and Vietnam and with the baht hitting a 16-year high this month, making Thai rice more expensive in dollar terms.
The intervention program, criticized by academics, economists and the International Monetary Fund, is coming under increasing global scrutiny.
At the W.T.O.'s agriculture committee meeting this week, Washington asked Thailand to say whether stocks were being exported or used domestically.
In questions seen by Reuters, the U.S. delegation said Thailand had previously said that data on the program, including figures on rice exports, were on government Web sites, but that the data had been discontinued.
A potential trade complaint is unlikely until Thailand responds formally, but Australia, Canada and the United States urged Bangkok to reply promptly. The European Union also said that it was concerned and that Bangkok needed to say clearly how it would release stocks.
The Thai government is paying 15,000 baht, or $513, per metric ton, so export prices are as much as a third higher than those for equivalent grades from India or Vietnam. That explains why, for the first time in three decades, Thailand was not the world's biggest rice exporter in 2012.
In early March, the Thai Commerce Ministry tested the waters by suggesting that the government could stop paying the high price for rice.
The reaction in the countryside was immediate and angry. The Thai Farmers Association threatened to take thousands of farmers to Bangkok to protest.
The Commerce Ministry said the government might also consider no longer buying 18 varieties of fast-growing rice of lower quality, which farmers have used to squeeze in more crops to cash in on the intervention program.
The government is running short of properly equipped warehouses, and even if the rice is stored in good conditions, its quality could start deteriorating after a year or two.
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said in October that 7.3 million metric tons had been sold in government-to-government deals, but the foreign countries he named have not confirmed that, and exporters have seen no port activity to back it up.
Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the International Rice Research Institute, based in Manila, said that while rice consumption in 2013 should remain strong, global rice prices would fall if Thailand unloaded its stocks.
Kiattisak Kalayasirivat of Novel Agritrade warned that prices could drop by $20 to $30 per metric ton if Thailand sold stocks, although demand from Africa or China would probably provide support.
Industry officials say something will have to give.
''The government can't go on with this scheme, and it needs to adjust things, otherwise it could mean a collapse of our fiscal stability, affecting each and every taxpayer,'' said Vichai Sriprasert, honorary president of the Thai Rice Exporters Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RICE FARMING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) THAILAND (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



951 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. Index Surpasses High Point Of 2007

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
The most widely followed barometer of the United States stock market rose to a new high on Thursday, exceeding its 2007 peak, while most of the rest of the world could only look on in envy.
The nominal record set by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is the latest sign that the American economy is recovering some of the strength it had before the financial collapse of 2008, partly helped by stimulus from the Federal Reserve.
It has been a little more than three weeks since the Dow Jones industrial average hit a milestone high, also set in October 2007, but the S.& P. is considered more representative of the breadth of American stocks.
The S.& P. reached its new nominal high after several days of flirting with the record as investors struggled with the turmoil caused by Cyprus's banking crisis. The milestone capped a strong first quarter, in which the index rose 10 percent to hit the high. 
Meanwhile, stock markets in nearly every other large economy around the world are still well below their records. An index of the entire world's stock market, without the United States, is still down about 29 percent from the level it hit in 2007, according to an analysis by Ned Davis Research. Only some smaller nations, such as Denmark, Mexico and Colombia, have fully recovered their losses.
Workers in the United States have learned that the stock market's performance is not always a good gauge of the underlying economy's strength. Unemployment in the United States has remained stubbornly high at the same time that share prices have risen since bottoming out in March 2009. Even with the record level, the S.& P. 500 is still not back to its 2007 level when inflation is taken into account.
Still, the performance of the American stock market would have seemed improbable during the depths of the crisis, given that it was financial markets in the United States that led the global economy into recession. Strategists and economists have said that the divergence since then is largely a result of the relative speed with which the United States government and corporate sector responded to the causes of the 2008 crisis.
''The U.S. addressed the problems of the financial crisis faster and with much more ferocity than the rest of the world,'' said Edward M. Clissold, a market strategist at Ned Davis Research.
The S.& P. 500 finished Thursday up 0.4 percent, or 6.34 points, at 1,569.19. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.4 percent, or 52.38 points, to 14,578.54. That is 11 percent above its level at the beginning of the quarter.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.3 percent, or 11 points to 3,267.52, far below the heights it reached during the dot-com boom in 2000.
Economists have given much of the credit for the market's recovery to the Fed, which worked quickly with the rest of the federal government to bail out and revamp the nation's banks and financial system, which the European Central Bank started doing in earnest only last year. While bank bailouts remain contentious, they have allowed the institutions to resume lending.
The Fed also acted on its own to pump money into the economy with bond-buying programs known as quantitative easing. Many central bankers around the world worried that those programs would result in extreme inflation. There are also fears that the American economy will not be able to remain on its current trajectory once the Fed draws back. But all that has not stopped other countries from beginning to copy the Fed's lead.
''The Fed has won the battle, and continues to win the battle,'' said Jack Malvey, the chief global markets strategist at BNY Mellon.
In Japan, the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was elected last December after promising a more aggressive approach to monetary policy. Japan's Nikkei index has been the best performer of any of the world's large stock markets in the first quarter of this year, rising 19 percent. That still leaves the Nikkei almost 68 percent below the heights it scaled in 1989 before Japan's real estate market soured.
The European Central Bank began taking more aggressive action to stimulate the Continent's economy last year, most notably after the bank's president, Mario Draghi, said last July that he would do ''whatever it takes to preserve the euro.'' Since then, European stock indexes have roughly kept pace with the S.& P. 500, but the MSCI index of European stocks remains 28 percent below its 2007 peak.
The other major catalyst for the ascent of the American stock market is the cost-cutting strategy used by corporate executives, which has raised profit and allowed companies to increase dividends to shareholders. That strategy, however, has exacted a toll on American workers, who have faced layoffs and pay cuts.
In Europe, by contrast, the greater legal protections offered to workers have made it harder for companies to revamp their businesses for the current economic environment.
''There is a very aggressive corporate mind-set, that a lot of people don't agree with,'' said Joseph P. Quinlan, the chief market strategist for Bank of America's private wealth management division. ''But corporate America has proved that it is much nimbler and more resilient'' in the new economic climate.
In many emerging economies, the lagging performances of the stock markets have not necessarily pointed to slower overall growth.
China's economy, for instance, continues to expand at a significantly faster pace than the American economy. But China's stock market has suffered because growth is slower than many investors expected just a few years ago. In addition, Chinese companies are more reliant on exports to places like Europe than corporate America. That has contributed to the MSCI China index remaining down 42 percent from highs in 2007.
Even with higher economic growth in some developing countries, investors have sought out American investments as a haven during the last few years when big shocks threatened the global economy. Last year alone, $385 billion in foreign money flowed into American stocks and bonds, while investors in the United States sent almost no new money overseas, according to data released this week by the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Many strategists expect the big global threats to diminish as 2013 goes on, which could help encourage more investing outside the United States. So far this year, the stock markets in a number of countries have done better than the S.& P. 500.
Even in the United States, the rising market has not helped all stocks. Citigroup's shares, for instance, are worth 92 percent less than they were back in 2007. That is almost the percentage the Greek stock market is down from its 1999 peak.
In the bond market, interest rates showed little change on Thursday. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note slipped 2/32, to 101 11/32, while its yield remained steady at 1.85 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronnie Howard showing the S.& P. 500-stock index closed at 1,569, its highest, on Thursday at the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 A New High: The S. & P. 500 overtook its previous 2007 high on Thursday, to close at 1,569.15 (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BANK FAILURES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



952 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Shift May Lead Way To Budget Pact

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As they explore possible fiscal deals, President Obama and Congressional Republicans have quietly raised the idea of broad systemic changes to Medicare that could produce significant savings and end the polarizing debate over Republican plans to privatize the insurance program for older Americans.
While the two remain far apart on the central issue of new tax revenue, recent statements from both sides show possible common ground on curbing the costs of Medicare, suggesting some lingering chance, however small, for a budget bargain.
Mr. Obama assured House and Senate Republicans during recent separate visits that he could support specific cost-saving changes to Medicare and deliver Democratic votes, though only as part of a ''balanced'' package that had additional revenues.
Several changes are likely to once again be in his annual budget, which will be released on April 10, after Congress returns from its break. Mr. Obama also plans a dinner with Senate Republicans that night. 
In particular, participants say, the president told House Republicans that he was open to combining Medicare's coverage for hospitals and doctor services. That would create a single deductible that could increase out-of-pocket costs for many future beneficiaries, but also could pay for a cap on their total expenses and reduce the need to buy Medigap supplementary insurance.
Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican, proposed much the same in a speech in February. ''We should begin by ending the arbitrary division between Part A, the hospital program, and Part B, the doctor services,'' he said. ''We can create reasonable and predictable levels of out-of-pocket expenses without forcing seniors to rely on Medigap plans.''
While Mr. Cantor's proposal got little attention at the time, its echo by Mr. Obama hints at a new route toward compromise -- in contrast with the budget that House Republicans passed this month that has no chance of Senate approval.
At a time when retiring baby boomers and mounting medical prices have made federal health care spending the biggest single driver of the nation's rising debt, the House budget from Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, would transform Medicare into a voucherlike system known as premium support, which Mr. Obama and Democrats adamantly oppose. But Mr. Cantor, like Mr. Obama, is suggesting cost-saving changes within the existing Medicare program.
To Senator Mark R. Warner of Virginia, a Democrat who has long led a bipartisan group of senators seeking a fiscal deal, such a proposal is the sort of newer idea needed for the parties to stop the ''stale arguments'' that after three years have turned their budget battling into ''World War I trench warfare.''
''You've got a whole lot of folks on the Republican side saying, 'Well, we don't really like what Ryan has done -- premium support -- but we want systemic reform,' '' Mr. Warner said at a round table hosted by Bloomberg News.
Mr. Obama's openness to Medicare changes seemed to be news to many Republicans, even though he first proposed detailed ideas in 2011. Republicans often accuse the president of opposing changes in entitlement spending while focusing on raising taxes, an attack that ignores his proposals but also reflects how little Mr. Obama has talked about them.
Still, the same hurdle to compromise stands: The president and his party will not support even his Medicare proposals unless Republicans agree to raise taxes on the wealthy and some corporations. Without that trade-off, common ground on Medicare will remain unplowed.
''The president has said this to the Republicans: 'You want to do entitlement reform? I do, too. I can produce entitlement reform and bring Democrats to the table, because I am a Democratic president. And so I'm ready to sit down with you and work out an approach,' '' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, a Democratic leader, said at a recent forum hosted by The Wall Street Journal.
Many Republicans remain distrustful of Mr. Obama. Yet when they speak of altering Medicare, not replacing it, it is clear that they share some concerns about the existing program.
Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and chairman of a health subcommittee, said the structure of the traditional fee-for-service Medicare is ''outdated and confusing.''
''Can you imagine a world in which someone has to buy hospital and nursing home coverage from one insurance company, physician office coverage from another insurance company, prescription drug coverage from yet another company, and likely supplemental coverage from a fourth insurance company?'' Mr. Brady asked. ''This is exactly how the current Medicare benefit is designed.''
Both the administration's and Mr. Cantor's interest in restructuring Medicare's Parts A and B dates to 2011, when various proposals were considered by a deficit-reduction group headed by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. that included Mr. Cantor.
The goal is to discourage people from seeking unneeded treatments, shrink health spending and offset the costs of a cap on beneficiaries' total out-of-pocket costs. Such a cap would reduce beneficiaries' need for extra insurance. About 90 percent of beneficiaries in the traditional Medicare program have supplemental coverage through Medigap policies, employers' retiree plans or Medicaid for low-income people.
Many health-policy economists have called for creating a single, unified deductible. The current two deductibles reflect separate legislative tracks that came together in the creation of Medicare in 1965. The deductible for Part A hospital care is relatively high ($1,184 this year), while that for Part B doctor care is relatively low ($147). Patients also have co-payments for many services.
Despite the bipartisan interest, the politics of merging Part A and Part B are complicated.
Glenn M. Hackbarth, chairman of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a group of nonpartisan experts that advises Congress, said a combined deductible could increase costs for those who use only doctor and outpatient services -- a majority of beneficiaries in any year. It could reduce costs, he said, for the roughly 20 percent who require hospitalization.
Proponents, including some in the administration, acknowledge the political risks of increasing most beneficiaries' costs, even in exchange for capping their total costs, as in cases of catastrophic illness. A 1988 law protecting against catastrophic costs caused such an outcry among older Americans, who faced an extra tax, that Congress quickly repealed it.
But administration officials say the 1988 law affected current beneficiaries, while Mr. Obama would apply any changes only to people becoming eligible for Medicare after 2016.
So far, the changes the president has proposed do not go as far as a single deductible and a cap on catastrophic costs. Instead, Mr. Obama has called for increasing the Part B deductible, which has risen much less than medical costs. He also proposed that beneficiaries pay something for home health care, which is among Medicare's fastest-growing and most fraud-prone expenses; people just released from the hospital would be exempted.
Third, Mr. Obama proposed a 15 percent surcharge on Medigap plans that cover all or nearly all of a beneficiary's initial annual expenses. Economists say that such coverage leaves beneficiaries insensitive to costs, increasing Medicare's spending and the premiums beneficiaries pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); APPROVALS (75%); HOSPITALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); WORLD WAR I (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



953 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Beloved but Ill, Boston Mayor Won't Run Again

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Some of the most enduring myths of this city are starting to crumble. Whitey Bulger, the notorious gangster who was on the lam for 16 years, is behind bars. The thieves who snatched priceless art from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 1990 were identified this month.
And now, Thomas M. Menino, the only mayor for an entire generation of Bostonians, is hanging up his spurs.
At an emotional announcement Thursday inside Faneuil Hall, Mr. Menino slowly navigated his way up the center aisle with his wife, Angela, to the thunderous applause from official Boston as well as city workers and admirers from the neighborhoods. Over the loudspeaker, Frank Sinatra crooned his defiant anthem, ''My Way.'' 
''I am here with the people I love, to tell the city I love, that I will leave the job that I love,'' Mr. Menino, 70, the city's longest-serving mayor, told the standing-room-only crowd of well-wishers. He said essentially that he was not up to the job, at least not the way he wanted to do it. After illnesses last year that left him hospitalized for two months, he said he could not keep up his schedule of attending every ribbon-cutting, every dinner for a new homeowner, every school play -- the small events that filled his days and threaded him to the city's residents.
''I love him to death and I'm sad to see him go,'' said Debra Flaherty, an education administrator, as she strolled through South Boston on Thursday. She had met the mayor multiple times at community events. ''He always made an effort to be at those things,'' she said. ''He really was the mayor of the people.''
As tortuous as it was for Mr. Menino to reach his decision not to run again for re-election, the announcement was buoyant. His departure after a 20-year run gives the city a chance to celebrate him and his achievements and to reflect on its transformation from a gritty parochial town to the high-powered economic engine of a region that has bounced back from the 2008 recession ahead of much of the nation.
It also allowed some of his supporters to breathe a sigh of relief that he would be spared the rigors of a campaign that might not turn out as well as his previous ones.
A Boston Globe poll this week showed that Mr. Menino remained immensely popular and that almost three-fourths of respondents said the city was heading in the right direction. But it also showed that voters were concerned about his health and ambivalent about returning him to office for an unprecedented sixth term. Only 43 percent said they wanted him to run again, and 36 percent said they did not.
''It's a good thing that he's not running,'' said Zeke Norton, a laborer from South Boston, who has volunteered on Mr. Menino's campaigns. It was obvious, he said, that the mayor was no longer healthy enough to do the job for another four years. ''The picture I saw in the paper yesterday -- he looked like he aged 30 years, his back was hunched, he's leaning on a cane,'' Mr. Norton said. ''He just didn't look right.''
The uncertainty surrounding Mr. Menino's intentions had frozen many political egos in this deeply political city; challenging the mayor has long been perceived as a career-ending move, given the strength of his political organization and his ability to raise money. Now, the open seat is likely to unleash a flood of pent-up ambition among politicians who have been stifled for nearly a generation.
Mr. Menino began his hold on City Hall in 1993, but there has not been an open mayor's race here since 1983. ''This is the true end of 20th-century Boston,'' said Thomas Whelan, a political historian at Boston University.
Mr. Menino was an accidental mayor. He was president of the City Council with few aspirations when the mayor, Ray Flynn, was appointed ambassador to the Vatican. Mr. Menino became acting mayor for four months. Elected to his first term in November 1993, he was the city's first Italian-American mayor and its first non-Irish mayor since 1930. ''He broadened the possibilities for other ethnic groups and gave them hope that they too could play a major role in Boston,'' Mr. Whalen said.
Today, Boston is a majority minority city, with more than 53 percent of its residents identifying as a race or ethnicity other than non-Hispanic white.
In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Menino said his proudest accomplishment was moving the city beyond the racial strife that surrounded the court-ordered busing of the 1970s. ''My No. 1 thing is bringing racial harmony to the city,'' he said.
Mr. Menino was an old-fashioned mayor, one who did not aspire to any higher office. He never flirted with Washington. His opposition last year to Chick-fil-A's interest in coming to Boston -- he did not like the owners' opposition to same-sex marriage -- won him a rare notice in the national press.
Mainly, he loved ambling through the neighborhoods that he and his constituents called home. ''There was nothing going on in this city that he didn't attend,'' said Jim Brett, president of the New England Council, which promotes economic growth in the region. ''The joke was he would go to the opening of an envelope.''
The Globe poll affirmed an eye-popping tidbit from previous polls -- that Mr. Menino had personally met more than half of Boston's 625,000 residents, an astounding feat for the chief executive of a major American city.
But his down-home style masked a drive for improving the quality of life here and for initiatives that helped put Boston on a secure footing. Many in the city on Thursday marveled at the unlikely trajectory of his career.
''He's from very humble origins'' and is not very polished, said Paul Grogan, president and chief executive officer of the Boston Foundation, which aids nonprofit groups.
''But he became a political titan,'' Mr. Grogan continued. ''He holds the record for longevity and for the sheer political dominance of his environment.''
Boston today, Mr. Grogan said, is enjoying a renaissance, some of it attributable to the mayor and his initiatives, even as he hewed to what Lt. Gov. Tim Murray called the ''blocking and tackling of government.''
He was often accused of failing to have a broader vision. ''What is a vision?'' Mr. Menino asked The Globe in a 1994 interview. ''Sometimes we get caught up in the grandiose. My vision is jobs, a better school system, community policing, health care.''
As he looked out over the crowd at Faneuil Hall on Thursday, he seemed in disbelief at how things had turned out.
''I never dreamed I would end up here,'' he said. ''Mayor of Boston during its best days.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amid fanfare at Faneuil Hall on Thursday, Thomas M. Menino, Boston's longest-serving mayor, announced that he would not run for re-election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from above: Mayor Thomas M. Menino in 2008 in the Dorchester neighborhood, which he pushed to renovate
with President Clinton in 1997
with Patriot football gear in 1996, including a football signed by Drew Bledsoe. He has been mayor since 1993. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GARY CAMERON/REUTERS
KEITH MEYERS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)
 The mayor in 2008 in Dorchester, where the city planted trees and bought abandoned homes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CALENDARS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



954 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Good Intentions, Paving the Usual

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''The Place Beyond the Pines,'' Derek Cianfrance's new movie, reveals the scale of its ambitions by slow and patient accretion. The film starts out as the modest tale of a small-time carnival performer -- a motorcycle stunt rider -- who turns to crime for misguided but nonetheless semi-admirable reasons, and in the early scenes you might mistake it for an earnest, locavore indie melodrama.
Which it is, only bigger, longer and elevated to a place on the border between grandeur and grandiosity. Set in and around Schenectady, N.Y. (whose Mohawk name is evoked in the title), ''The Place Beyond the Pines'' has a lot to say about class, manhood and the curious operations of fate, themes that Mr. Cianfrance articulates with blunt conviction and, at times, impressive artistry. He goes on too long: the three-part story, spread over nearly two and a half hours, represents a triumph of sympathetic imagination and a failure of narrative economy. But if, in the end, the film can't quite sustain its epic vision, it does, along the way, achieve the density and momentum of a good novel. 
If it were a book, the name on the spine might be Russell Banks or Joyce Carol Oates, since, like them, Mr. Cianfrance is drawn to blue-collar landscapes of the northeastern United States. This Schenectady, seen at two different moments 15 years apart, feels like a place that time forgot, far away from the tumult of politics or commercial popular culture. It's a small town of beat-up houses and late-night diners whose citizens dwell under film-noir shadows of violence and corruption.
Luke (Ryan Gosling), first glimpsed as a tattoo-covered torso striding away from the camera, shows up with his seedy, itinerant fairground crew and encounters Romina (Eva Mendes), with whom he had a fling the last time he was in town. When he finds out that his wild oat has sprouted into a baby named Jason, Luke decides to stick around, insisting that he and Romina and Jason can be a family, even though Romina lives with another man (Mahershala Ali). To win her over and support his child, Luke, with the help of a local mechanic (the excellent Ben Mendelsohn), starts robbing banks, speeding away on his motorcycle.
The second section of ''The Place Beyond the Pines'' is about another man, a police officer named Avery (Bradley Cooper), who is also the father of a baby boy. The third panel of what Mr. Cianfrance has described as a triptych is about the two sons (grown into Emory Cohen and Dane DeHaan). I'm reluctant to say more, less out of a fear of spoilers than out of respect for the film's structural audacity.
Mr. Cianfrance's previous movie, ''Blue Valentine,'' with Mr. Gosling and Michelle Williams, was built around a chronological trick. It shuttled back and forth in time between the beginning and the end of the main characters' relationship. The most radical aspect of ''The Place Beyond the Pines'' is its relentless linearity, the way it tells its story without foreshadowing or flashing back or resorting to other conventional shortcuts. Watching it is refreshing and absorbing partly because it is rare for a film to show this kind of confidence in its own narrative momentum, which is also a gesture of faith in the audience's willingness to pay attention.
Your attention is especially rewarded by the work of Mr. Gosling and Mr. Cooper, who offer contrasting studies in tragic, shortsighted masculine intensity. Mr. Gosling's cool self-possession -- the only thing he was allowed to display in ''Drive'' -- is complicated, made interesting, by hints of childlike innocence and vulnerability. In the middle of stickups, Luke raises his voice almost to a shriek, and his dream of paternal fulfillment is almost pathetically naïve.
His most serious flaw may be his commitment to a romantic view of himself as an outlaw with a noble cause. Avery, the son of a judge (Harris Yulin), is threatened above all by his own righteous arrogance, which undermines his relationship with his wife (Rose Byrne) and clouds his professional prospects. Mr. Cooper, once again showing himself to be a restless and resourceful talent, plays Avery as a handsome, charming winner who is nonetheless very difficult to like.
The sins of these two complicated fathers are visited on their sons, and it is in the third-act swirl of revenge and redemption that ''The Place Beyond the Pines'' goes wrong, trading its grit and psychological insight for overwrought, capitalized emotions. As the movie wears on, you start to notice Mr. Cianfrance's overreliance on certain shots (like the long, behind-the-head follow) and the insistent, stabbing squall of Mike Patton's otherwise effective score. (Speaking of music, the movie ends with a Bon Iver song that would have been more powerful if it had not been used in a similar way in ''Rust and Bone.'')
The failures of this film are the product of its aspirations, which makes it easy to forgive, even though the disappointment is hard to shake. The movie is a little like both its anguished protagonists, going wrong in the name of vanity and love.
''The Place Beyond the Pines'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Crime, punishment, drugs, swearing.
The Place Beyond the Pines
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Derek Cianfrance; written by Mr. Cianfrance, Ben Coccio and Darius Marder, based on a story by Mr. Cianfrance and Mr. Coccio; director of photography, Sean Bobbitt; edited by Jim Helton and Ron Patane; music by Mike Patton; production design by Inbal Weinberg; costumes by Erin Benach; produced by Jamie Patricof, Lynette Howell, Alex Orlovsky and Sidney Kimmel; released by Focus Features. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.
WITH: Ryan Gosling (Luke), Bradley Cooper (Avery), Eva Mendes (Romina), Ray Liotta (Deluca), Rose Byrne (Jennifer), Mahershala Ali (Kofi), Dane DeHaan (Jason), Emory Cohen (A J), Harris Yulin (Al Cross) and Ben Mendelsohn (Robin).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Place Beyond the Pines: Ryan Gosling in this film, which opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. (C1)
 Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes as parents and former lovers in ''The Place Beyond The Pines,'' directed by Derek Cianfrance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FOCUS FEATURES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); BANK ROBBERY (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



955 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: A Long Prison Term Is Less So Thanks to Regrets by the Sentencing Judge

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- When Denise Dallaire was arrested at age 26 on charges of selling a few ounces of crack cocaine here a decade ago, she was sentenced to prison for more than 15 years. Last month, shackled inside the same court and facing the same judge, she received an apology and was set free.
The reversal by Judge Ronald R. Lagueux highlights how mandatory sentencing guidelines, though struck down by the Supreme Court eight years ago, continue to keep hundreds of small-time offenders behind bars for longer than many today consider appropriate.
Ms. Dallaire was lucky enough to get herself noticed and for a technical flaw in her case to have surfaced. The result was a moment of courtroom drama and human redemption led by an 81-year-old judge eager to make amends for a decision he had long regretted. 
''I felt bound by those mandatory guidelines and I hated them,'' Judge Lagueux (pronounced la-GUEUR) said from the bench as Ms. Dallaire sobbed quietly and the room froze with amazement. ''I'm sorry I sent you away for 15 years.'' He urged her to get home quickly to her ill mother but not to run down the court steps as people do in the movies. ''Those steps are dangerous,'' he told her.
Ms. Dallaire got home for her mother's final 11 days.
''They were the most amazing 11 days of my life,'' Ms. Dallaire said in the kitchen of her mother's house in Groton, Conn. ''I never left her side.''
Like many petty criminals snared by sentencing rules aimed at drug kingpins, Ms. Dallaire had virtually no hope of an early release, even after the Supreme Court's 2005 decision and subsequent Congressional action reducing prison terms in crack cocaine cases. She got there through an exquisitely rare constellation -- her exemplary prison record, Judge Lagueux's nagging conscience and the interest of another judge who persuaded a top lawyer to volunteer his time to work for her release. Without those, Ms. Dallaire would still be working three jobs at the Danbury federal prison.
''There are a lot of people like Denise doing bone-crushing time under the old sentencing regime, and we need to try to find ways to help them,'' said Judge John Gleeson, an outspoken advocate of innovative treatments for drug cases and sentence reductions. He said he had been discussing with a number of interested lawyers the idea of setting up a project whereby lawyers working pro bono would seek relief for inmates like Ms. Dallaire. He suggested it be modeled on the Innocence Project, which seeks to exonerate the wrongfully convicted, and perhaps be called the Mercy Project.
It was a chance meeting with Judge Gleeson that started the chain of events that set Ms. Dallaire free.
Judge Gleeson, who sits on the Federal District Court in Brooklyn and teaches a course in sentencing at New York University Law School, takes his students and clerks every year to the Danbury prison. He was inspired to do so by his mentor, the late Judge Eugene H. Nickerson, who urged him to spend time in a prison at least once a year to keep in mind where he was sending defendants.
As part of those visits, inmates tell the group about their cases and their lives behind bars. For the past several years, Ms. Dallaire has been one of those inmates.
''She was the perfect teaching case,'' the judge noted in his chambers recently.
Ms. Dallaire's arrest for selling and possessing crack cocaine was not her first. Seven years earlier she had been arrested on possession of a similar amount of crack and while in college she had thrown a glass in a barroom brawl, causing an injury. The result was that at her third arrest she was a ''career criminal'' under the guidelines, tripling her sentence.
Judge Lagueux, nominated to the bench by President Ronald Reagan, made clear at Ms. Dallaire's original sentencing that he was acting against his own better judgment. ''This is one case where the guidelines work an injustice, and I'd like to do something about it but I can't,'' he said then from the bench.
Ms. Dallaire, who graduated from Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, says that she was never very interested in drugs, only in the pocket cash that dealing them provided. Her parents had divorced, the local economy had tanked and she had fallen in with a bad crowd.
''I made a lot of stupid and ridiculous decisions,'' she said. She declared herself lucky to have been caught and sent to prison -- just not for 15 years. ''I deserved to go to prison,'' she said. ''Thank God I got time. I got my priorities straight.''
Ms. Dallaire turned prison into an opportunity to serve others. She made and donated thousands of blankets, hats and pillows to a children's oncology ward. She organized the inmates to decorate Christmas trees that were auctioned to companies with the proceeds to a cancer charity. She got 600 inmates to march around the prison yard as part of a drive against breast cancer, raising more than $1,500 from their small earnings.
After his most recent visit to Danbury, Judge Gleeson decided to see if he could get Ms. Dallaire's sentence reduced. He thought the best way would be to seek a presidential pardon, and he called a friend, Jonathan D. Polkes, a partner in the major New York City firm of Weil Gotshal & Manges, and asked if he would be willing to take on the case pro bono.
Mr. Polkes agreed and along with several associates drafted a pardon request of President Obama. They took note of the fact that in 2005, two years after Ms. Dallaire had been sentenced, the Supreme Court declared the mandatory sentencing guidelines unconstitutional, saying they should be considered only advisory. And in 2008 and again in 2011, Congress reduced sentences for inmates involved with crack cocaine.
As part of the pardon process, Mr. Polkes sent the materials to Judge Lagueux to get his signoff. The judge was eager to help. He believed, however, as did the others, that a presidential pardon was unlikely. But he noted a procedural flaw in his original sentence. He told Mr. Polkes that if he could get the case back before him, he would free Ms. Dallaire on time served.
''This was a miscarriage of justice,'' Judge Lagueux said in his living room in East Providence one recent afternoon. ''It stayed in my mind to an unusual degree and I thought justice should be done.''
Ms. Dallaire sees her release as nothing short of a miracle. ''I didn't believe I would get out,'' she said. She plans to help people headed for prison to learn about what is ahead. She also wants to involve herself in the planned Mercy Project to gain commutation for some of those serving long sentences. ''I would love to do whatever is necessary to help fix the federal system,'' she said. ''My goal now is to repay everyone who has helped me. I just want to be a success story for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Denise Dallaire, now at home in Groton, Conn., was told by a judge who freed her after 10 years in prison, ''I'm sorry I sent you away for 15 years.'' (A11)
 Judge Ronald R. Lagueux said in court of mandatory sentencing guidelines: ''I hated them.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (92%); COCAINE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PRISONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); PRO BONO LAW (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



956 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Quinn Clears Path for a Bill On Sick Leave

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
New York City is poised to mandate that thousands of companies provide paid time off for sick employees, bolstering a national movement that has been resisted by wary business leaders.
A legislative compromise reached on Thursday night represents a raw display of political muscle by a coalition of labor unions and liberal activists who overcame fierce objections from New York's business-minded mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, and his allies in the corporate world.
The deal required a high-profile concession from a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Bloomberg, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, who had single-handedly blocked action on the sick-leave issue for three years, arguing that it would inflict damage on the city's fragile economy. 
The legislation would eventually force companies with at least 15 employees to give full-time workers five compensated days off a year when they are ill, a requirement that advocates said would allow much of the city's labor force to stay home from work without fear of losing a day's wage -- or worse, a job. The advocates said the legislation would provide paid sick leave for one million New Yorkers who do not currently have such benefits.
But to the disappointment of those who pushed for a more sweeping version of the legislation, New York City's mandate would not take effect until spring 2014, and for the first 18 months, it would apply only to businesses with 20 or more employees, according to people involved in the negotiations.
The measure is subject to a vote by the City Council. Mr. Bloomberg is expected to veto the measure, but there is enough support on the Council to override his veto.
New York's measure would be less stringent than similar requirements in Portland, Ore., San Francisco, Seattle and Washington, which cover either all companies or those with five or more workers.
In a provision designed to placate the city's corporate leaders, the sick-leave requirement would not be implemented next year should the city's economy significantly erode, as measured by a financial index kept by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Still, advocates argued that its passage would represent a significant symbolic victory because of New York's vast size and its role at times as a bellwether for public policy around the country.
''It's not perfect,'' said Sherry Leiwant, co-president of A Better Balance, an advocacy group involved in the negotiations. ''But it's very important to get this done in New York.''
New York's relative slowness to tackle the issue of mandatory sick-leave benefits has become a source of embarrassment for the city's liberal leaders, who directed their frustration at Ms. Quinn, a Democrat and longtime ally of Mr. Bloomberg who has aggressively courted the business community in her run for mayor.
Until a few weeks ago, Ms. Quinn had firmly resisted calls for mandated paid sick-leave legislation, using her power as speaker to block fellow lawmakers from voting on a bill proposed by Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer, of the Upper West Side, despite the bill's widespread support.
But Ms. Quinn and her aides became unsettled by the steady drumbeat of news conferences calling on her to permit a vote, and emotional appeals from unions, elected officials, and activists including the feminist Gloria Steinem.
The outcry, which coincided with the official declaration of Ms. Quinn's mayoral campaign, quickly took center stage in the mayor's race, spilling out into contentious candidate forums and turning into an emblem of Ms. Quinn's complicated relationship with left-leaning Democrats.
In one particularly potent tactic, advocates persuaded the usually timid members of the Council to try to circumvent Ms. Quinn and force a vote on a version of the bill that was unacceptable to her, a maneuver never tried during her tenure as speaker.
Soon after it became clear that she might face a revolt in the City Council, Ms. Quinn sought to end the controversy -- and cast off a political liability -- by jump-starting negotiations, working with a local building service workers' union with whom she has a close relationship.
The two sides started far apart: Ms. Quinn proposed a rule that would apply to companies with 50 or more workers; advocates wanted a threshold of five.
Under the deal, companies exempt from the requirement because of their low number of employees would have to offer workers five days of unpaid sick leave annually.
Whether the sick leave is paid or unpaid, companies will be legally forbidden from firing workers for taking such time off.
Ms. Quinn, who insisted on the strong exemptions for smaller companies, said the compromise bill struck a balance between the needs of workers and their employers.
''We have a good, strong and sensible piece of legislation that recognizes the needs of everyday New Yorkers and the realities that our struggling small businesses face,'' Ms. Quinn said in a statement.
As the marathon talks drew to a close on Thursday night, advocates said that, compromises aside, they believed New York had given new momentum to a broader social cause.
''This is a sweet victory,'' said Bill Lipton, state director of the Working Families Party, which has overseen the advocates' day-to-day effort to win passage of the measure. ''It provides economic security for New Yorkers, and a shot in the arm for the paid sick days movement across the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker Christine C. Quinn (A1)
 A hearing on paid sick leave last week. The agreement reached on Thursday night is subject to a vote by the City Council after action on the issue had been blocked for three years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (91%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); MAYORS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



957 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 6653 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'The Assembled Parties' (in previews; opens on April 17) Nobody could accuse Richard Greenberg of slacking this season. Within weeks of unveiling his take on ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' and a month ahead of the ''Far From Heaven'' musical adaptation for which he wrote the book, Mr. Greenberg introduces this new work. Directed by Lynne Meadow for Manhattan Theater Club, it focuses on a well-heeled Upper West Side Jewish family whose stability is threatened at the dawn of the 21st century. The cast includes Jessica Hecht, Judith Light and Jeremy Shamos. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Big Knife' (in previews; opens on April 16) Following last year's sterling revival of ''Golden Boy,'' the Clifford Odets appreciation season continues with this production from Roundabout Theater Company. The caustic 1949 work drew on Odets's firsthand experience as a Hollywood screenwriter to observe the machinations behind the studio management of a star embroiled in a scandal that threatens to end his career. Doug Hughes directs an ensemble headed by Bobby Cannavale and Marin Ireland, along with the veterans Richard Kind and Chip Zien. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Buyer & Cellar' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) Michael Urie, known for his bitchy fashion flunky on ''Ugly Betty,'' and onstage, for his gay activism pioneer in ''The Temperamentals,'' stars in Jonathan Tolins's comedy about a struggling Los Angeles actor who takes a job toiling in the Malibu basement of a revered superstar. His understanding of the price of fame changes when he finally gets to meet his idol. Stephen Brackett directs. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Rooney)
'The Call' (in previews; opens on April 14) No, it's not a stage version of the Halle Berry girl-in-peril movie. Tanya Barfield's politically charged drama concerns a couple whose choice to adopt a child from Africa prompts them to question their identity as white Americans. Leigh Silverman directs the co-production between Playwrights Horizons and Primary Stages, with a strong cast that includes Kelly AuCoin, Kerry Butler, Eisa Davis, Crystal A. Dickinson and Russell G. Jones. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'Here Lies Love' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 23) You were expecting a conventional bio-musical from a creative team that includes the maverick musicians David Byrne and Fatboy Slim, the director Alex Timbers and the choreographer Annie-B Parson? Exploring the abuse of power, this show deconstructs the journey of the Filipina first lady and shoe hoarder Imelda Marcos as an immersive dance-club experience. The audience stands throughout, weaving among the performers in a 360-degree scenic and video environment. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Kafka's Monkey' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Thursday) After producing his play ''Svejk'' in 2004, Theater for a New Audience now presents Colin Teevan's work adapted from the Franz Kafka story ''A Report to an Academy.'' First seen at the Young Vic in London, Walter Meierjohann's production stars Kathryn Hunter, a founding member of the British company Complicité, as a reluctantly civilized ape asked to address a group of scientists. Jerome Robbins Theater, Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, (866) 811-4111, bacnyc.org. (Rooney)
'Kinky Boots' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Cyndi Lauper has been a fixture in the New York theater community for so long that it's hard to believe that she's never written for Broadway. (She has performed there, in the 2006 revival of ''The Threepenny Opera.'') Here she collaborates with two men who have more than two dozen Broadway credits between them, the book writer Harvey Fierstein and the director-choreographer Jerry Mitchell. Together they take on the feel-good 2005 film about a drag queen (played onstage by Billy Porter) who takes on the task of saving a failing shoe factory. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Eric Grode)
'The Last Five Years' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) This two-character 2002 musical by Jason Robert Brown has become a juggernaut in terms of regional productions (more than 500) and audition songs (seemingly limitless). It also went a long way toward cementing the careers of its original New York stars, Norbert Leo Butz and Sherie Rene Scott, so theater buffs may be curious to see what the new cast -- Adam Kantor (''Rent'') and Betsy Wolfe (''The Mystery of Edwin Drood'') -- will do with this show, which uses a curious narrative structure to chart a disintegrating marriage. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'Lucky Guy' (in previews; opens on Monday) In New York City in the mid-1980s, the sight of Mike McAlary, the squinty-eyed, thick-mustached Irishman, looking out from a newsstand was a sign that he had unearthed yet another scandalous tidbit from the police beat. Nora Ephron, who worked at The New York Post before McAlary did, was there to see it all; so was George C. Wolfe, then just beginning his ascent in the New York theater world. Ephron finished this sprawling play about the muckraking columnist before she died last year, leaving it in the hands of Mr. Wolfe, who directs, and a cast led by Tom Hanks (making his Broadway debut). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Matilda the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 11) This musical take on Roald Dahl's beloved 1988 children's novel features four young actresses each having a go at Matilda, the telekinetic little girl with beastly parents and an even worse headmistress, Miss Trunchbull (Bertie Carvel, in his Broadway debut, repeating his best actor Olivier Award-winning London performance). A draw for the parents may be Tim Minchin, an Australian musician and comedian who wrote the music and lyrics. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Motown: the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 14) He has been a boxer, a record store owner and perhaps the greatest hit-making producer of all time, so why shouldn't Berry Gordy add Broadway book writer to his résumé? He has a decent safety net in the form of the peerless Motown song catalog, which includes several tunes he had a part in writing. Expect to see and hear Smokey, Diana, Marvin and many, many, many others, all directed by Charles Randolph-Wright and supported by a relatively luxurious 18-piece orchestra. Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'The Nance' (in previews; opens on April 15) A stock figure of traditional burlesque, the nance was a stereotypical sissy usually played by a heterosexual performer. That's not the case in Douglas Carter Beane's new play, which stars Nathan Lane in the title role of a man juggling his career as a beloved stage headliner with a messy secret life in the gay underground of 1930s New York. Jack O'Brien directs an ensemble that reunites Mr. Lane with his ''Producers'' cast mate Cady Huffman. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Nikolai and the Others' (previews start on Thursday; opens on May 6) The always inventive David Cromer directs a large cast that includes Blair Brown, Michael Cerveris, Alvin Epstein, Kathryn Erbe, John Glover and Stephen Kunken in this latest excursion into history from Richard Nelson. Set in Westport, Conn., during a spring weekend in 1948, the play considers the questionable ways in which American art was financed at the start of the cold war. It focuses on a gathering of Russian émigrés, among them George Balanchine and Igor Stravinsky, retracing the roots of their collaboration on the ballet ''Orpheus.'' Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Orphans' (in previews; opens on April 18) Alec Baldwin returns to Broadway post-''30 Rock,'' flanked by Ben Foster and Tom Sturridge in Lyle Kessler's 1983 drama about two almost feral brothers holed up alone in a run-down North Philadelphia row house, and the wealthy kidnapped criminal who becomes a surrogate father to them. A week into rehearsals the production made headlines when Shia LaBeouf abruptly exited after backstage disagreements; Mr. Foster stepped in to take his place. Daniel Sullivan directs. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Pippin' (in previews; opens on April 25) The 1970s redux on Broadway didn't fare well last season, with neither ''Godspell'' nor ''Jesus Christ Superstar'' sticking around long. But Diane Paulus managed to make the countercultural relic ''Hair'' feel vital and relevant in her thrilling 2009 revival. So she might also be the right person to give a fresh take on Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 show about a restless royal heir seeking his ''Corner of the Sky.'' First seen at the American Repertory Theater, where Ms. Paulus is artistic director, the show features Matthew James Thomas, Patina Miller, Terrence Mann, Charlotte d'Amboise and Andrea Martin, with circus and acrobatic elements created by Gypsy Snider of the Montreal-based troupe 7 Fingers. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Testament of Mary' (in previews; opens on April 22) Before it became a searing novella, the Irish author Colm Toibin's eloquently humanized first-person account of the post-Crucifixion years of Mary, mother of Jesus, was an acclaimed monologue performed at the Dublin Theater Festival in 2011 by Marie Mullan under the direction of Garry Hynes. This new production, starring Fiona Shaw, is the latest chapter in the long and fruitful creative partnership between Ms. Shaw and the director Deborah Warner, whose work together was last seen on Broadway in a blazing ''Medea'' in 2002. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Trip to Bountiful' (previews start on Saturday; opens on April 23) The director Michael Wilson has a distinguished history staging the work of Horton Foote, most recently with ''Dividing the Estate'' and ''The Orphans' Home Cycle.'' In his non-traditionally cast production of Foote's 1953 drama, Cicely Tyson returns to Broadway for the first time in 30 years to play Carrie Watts, a role that has won acclaim for Lillian Gish, Geraldine Page and Lois Smith. The lead character is an elderly Texan woman determined to make one final journey to her hometown, against the wishes of her family. Starring alongside Ms. Tyson are Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, Condola Rashad and Tom Wopat. Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Breakfast at Tiffany's' Holly Golightly does not. Go lightly, that is. Everyone in this lugubrious stage adaptation of Truman Capote's beloved 1958 novella gives the impression that what they're doing onstage is hard labor. Sean Mathias directs Richard Greenberg's adaptation with a cast that includes Cory Michael Smith, George Wendt and as Holly, Emilia Clarke (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Hands on a Hardbody' A daring new musical that burrows into the hearts of average men and women facing fierce economic headwinds: a cross-section of Texans vying to win a Nissan in a grueling endurance test. The terrific score, by Trey Anastasio (of Phish) and Amanda Green, locks into an authentic roots-rock groove and hugs it tight, even if the show cannot always surmount the linear nature of its story (2:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Belleville' Amy Herzog's sensationally good new drama is both a nail-biting psychological thriller and a keenly observed -- and ultimately heart-rending -- portrait of a young couple (the terrific Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller) whose marriage suddenly begins to unravel under the pressure of secrets and lies. Anne Kauffman directs the flawless production (1:35). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Isherwood)
'Bunnicula: A Rabbit Tale of Musical Mystery' Charles Busch livens up this fun adaptation of the kid's novel about a family enduring some turmoil after adopting a rabbit that may be a vampire (1:05). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dr2theatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Detroit '67' Dominique Morisseau's overly tidy drama uses the riots that plagued the title city as a background to formulaic stories about a brother and a sister at odds and an interracial romance (1:15). National Black Theater, 2031 Fifth Avenue, near 125th Street, East Harlem, (866) 811-4111, classicaltheatreofharlem.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Donnybrook!' This revival of Johnny Burke and Robert E. McEnroe's 1961 musical (itself an adaptation of ''The Quiet Man,'' the 1952 St. Patrick's Day perennial about an Irish-American boxer's fraught courtship of a redheaded spitfire), jettisons the most dated, disturbing and indulgent elements of the movie but retains the essential sentimental blarney. With a fine cast and crisp direction by Charlotte Moore, the result is as fresh as a morning after rain in the west of Ireland (2:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'The Flick' The new play from the terrifically gifted Annie Baker (''Circle Mirror Transformation,'' ''The Aliens'') is a typically keenly observed and compassionate portrait of the emotional and ethical complications that arise in the relationships among three employees of a dumpy rural movie theater. At Shakespearean length (three hours!), the play demands patience, but also rewards it (3:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'For Love' Three women in their 30s contend with love (or the lack of it) in this riotously tart and fiercely energetic dramedy set in Dublin. The performances and pungent, expletive-laden dialogue, delivered in the taut cadences of the north Dublin suburbs, drive the production, which, yes, offers romance (however fleeting) and plenty of laughs (1:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
'Hamlet' The Bedlam company presents a four-person, stripped-down production that is modest and sensitive to the sound of the poetry of the play (3:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Zinoman)
'Happy Birthday' Written by Anita Loos in 1946 as a vehicle for Helen Hayes and now revived by the Actors Company Theater, this rather endearingly madcap romantic comedy suffers from a boilerplate narrative (and now, no Helen Hayes) (1:40). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Hit the Wall' Ike Holter's impassioned evocation of the Stonewall Riots, and Eric Hoff's vigorous production, are strongest when stylized interpretation eclipses conventional realism. A hit in Chicago last year, the drama is being staged just a stone's throw from Christopher Park in Greenwich Village where the events depicted occurred, amplifying the historical echoes of the sweltering June night in 1969 when drag queens, gay men and lesbians pushed back during a routine police raid. While the freewheeling play traffics in stereotype and anachronism with mixed results, it adopts a vernacular that speaks sincerely and directly to today's gay youth, inviting them to honor the earlier generation that broke the chains of marginalization and invisibility (1:35). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Honky' This daffy take on race by Greg Kalleres may have been more cutting edge about 25 years ago, but it's still hilarious. A teenager is killed for his trendy sneakers, and everybody associated with the shoe -- the designer, the guy who created the advertising campaign, the president of the shoe company -- has to come to grips with issues of attitude and perception. Oh, and along the way someone invents a pill to cure racism (1:45). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, urbanstages.org. (Neil Genzlinger)
'The Madrid' Edie Falco, whose face usually seems like an open window, pulls down the blinds in Liz Flahive's muted, murky play about a runaway kindergarten teacher, directed by Leigh Silverman. Ms. Flahive has a poet's hand for echoing imagery. But this production often feels paralyzed in its contemplation of the mystery of everyday lives (2:10). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)
'The Mound Builders' The director Jo Bonney's revival of Lanford Wilson's 1975 work, about the relationships among an archaeologist and his family and associates, mostly lacks the emotionally nuanced performances the play's delicate textures require (2:15). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Much Ado About Nothing' The splendid Jonathan Cake is an exuberant, witty Benedick opposite Maggie Siff's Beatrice in an otherwise mostly zest-free production of Shakespeare's romantic comedy, directed by Arin Arbus for Theater for a New Audience (2:40). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'The Norwegians' There is every chance that C. Denby Swanson wrote this odd, dark, profane comedy -- about really sweet Scandinavian hit men in Minnesota and the young women who hire them -- after falling asleep during ''Fargo.'' But this low-budget guilty pleasure delivers solid laughs while making fun (in mostly nice ways) of various ethnicities and American states. And one actress demonstrates how good Mary-Louise Parker might be as a stand-up comic (1:30). Drilling Company Theater, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Passion' Staged by John Doyle, a minimalist with a scalpel, this hypnotic revival of Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's musical study of love beyond reason comes across as a pulsing collective fever dream, while reminding us that startling clarity can come from such dreams. Ryan Silverman, Judy Kuhn and Melissa Errico expertly embody the show's compelling central triangle (1:45). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Revisionist' As a Polish Holocaust survivor in Jesse Eisenberg's somewhat implausible new play, Vanessa Redgrave reminds us why she's considered the greatest actress of her generation. She inhabits her character with precision and authority, making us feel like humble, privileged trespassers in an exotic world. Mr. Eisenberg almost holds his own portraying her graceless young American cousin (1:45). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Brantley)
'Saga' This wonderfully theatrical puppet show, about the human impact of the financial crisis in Iceland, loses some of its power when it turns dark and violent (1:05). Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, (866) 811-4111, wakkawakka.org. (Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'Saint Joan' With just four actors playing 24 characters, Bedlam's wonderfully high-spirited production of Shaw's 1920 semi-tragedy leads its audience into, out of and all over the space. Eric Taylor's inventive direction and the four superb performers make it well worth the schlep. Running in repertory with the Bedlam company's ''Hamlet'' (3:00). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, fourth floor, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Grode)
'Shaheed: The Dream and Death of Benazir Bhutto' Anna Khaja plays eight characters in her one-woman show that mixes fact and fiction to understand the complicated, contradictory person that was Benazir Bhutto. Ms. Khaja, who wrote the script, is a better actress than writer, and some of the characters seem thin. Still the show reminds us of why Bhutto was so interesting (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Talley's Folly' Danny Burstein and Sarah Paulson give performances of translucent feeling in this loving Roundabout Theater Company revival of Lanford Wilson's 1979 romantic pas de deux about two misfits in 1944 Missouri trying to find a mutual rhythm. Directed with sympathy and insight by Michael Wilson (1:35). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Clown Bar' This goofy but very funny homage to noir films and pulp novels finds a cop up against a crew of demented clowns (1:10). Parkside Lounge, 317 East Houston Street, East Village, (800) 838-3006, www.pipelinetheatre.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Wednesdays only. Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Catherine Rampell)
Extravaganzas
&#x2605; 'Cirque du Soleil: Totem' This offering from Cirque du Soleil is far more exciting than some of its past shows, and more geared toward adults than children (2:30). Lot C, Citi Field, 126th Street and Roosevelt Avenue, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, cirquedusoleil.com/totem. (Jaworowski)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mama, I Want to Sing' New blood energizes the long-running gospel musical. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' (closes on Saturday) A four-alarm urgency infuses Scarlett Johansson's performance in Rob Ashford's oxygen-starved revival of Tennessee Williams's 1955 drama of sex and lies. If Ms. Johansson is oddly un-feline as Maggie the Cat, she sure has presence. The rest of the cast, including Benjamin Walker and Ciaran Hinds, gets lost in the heavy atmospherics (2:40). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Easter' (closes on Sunday) This surprisingly optimistic and sometimes strange play is given an admirable revival by the August Strindberg Repertory Theater (1:40). Gene Frankel Theater, 24 Bond Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Jaworowski)
'The (*) Inn, *Empty, Vacant, Abandoned; Usually Translated as 'Haunted'' (closes on Sunday) In straining for a modern, lively update of this century-old Yiddish play, the Target Margin theater mounts a show that is more bold than coherent (1:30). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Zinoman)
'Jackie' (closes on Sunday) The message from the American public has remained pretty consistent: Presidents' wives should be seen but not heard. Or is that women in general? The Austrian playwright Elfriede Jelinek gives one (darkly cynical) answer in this dense, slippery monologue, in which Tina Benko embodies Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Presented by the Women's Project (1:20). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (La Rocco)
'Katie Roche' (closes on Sunday) The Mint Theater Company's commitment to re-examine the works of the Irish playwright Teresa Deevy reaches its third year, and third play, with this production, in which Wrenn Schmidt stars as a young woman who marries a staid older man and then must come to grips with that decision. It's not as compelling as the two earlier productions, though it's an interesting addition to the overall picture (1:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Genzlinger)
'Last Man Club' (closes on Saturday) Randy Sharp's atmospheric, expertly structured one-act drama does almost too good a job of making the audience feel as if it is living through the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. This production, about people who stay behind in their devastated hometowns and the men who try to fool them, can be hypnotic; that's a compliment and a problem (1:25). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, off Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 352-2101, axiscompany.org. (Gates)
'The Little Flower' (closes on Friday) Not to be confused with the musical ''Fiorello!,'' Anthony Lo Bianco's solo show about New York's beloved 20th-century mayor Fiorello La Guardia is more pep rally, history lesson and city lovefest than traditional storytelling. But it does those jobs well, especially when Mr. Lo Bianco delivers political speeches directly to the audience (1:30). Dicapo Opera Theater, St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'The Lying Lesson' (closes on Sunday) Craig Lucas's tepid two-hander features Carol Kane portraying Bette Davis in her later years. Having moved to small-town Maine, she strikes up a relationship with a local (Mickey Sumner) whose motives are a bit mysterious (1:45). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Neva' (closes on Sunday) Chekhov's widow, Olga Knipper (the terrific Bianca Amato), and two other Russian actors (the also-excellent Quincy Tyler Bernstine and Luke Robertson) gather in a rehearsal room in 1905 in St. Petersburg. The winds of revolution are howling at the windows, but in Guillermo Calderón's turgid psychodrama, most of the endless talk illustrates only these actors' self-involvement (1:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Old Boy' (closes on Saturday) In A.R. Gurney's 1991 drama, a politician exuding charm returns to his snobbish boarding school to give a speech and makes a moral choice that defies tradition. In the Keen Company revival, the punch lines don't always land as hard as they should, but the script is rich and literate, and Chris Dwan is convincing and sympathetic in the role of a troubled teenager (1:20). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Really Really' (closes on Saturday) The young playwright Paul Downs Colaizzo shows an assured appreciation of the addictive power of ambiguity in this merciless state-of-a-generation play, set on a college campus. Yet because of its blanket bleakness, nothing in it surprises us. Zosia Mamet is excellent as an upwardly mobile college student who becomes both victim and predator. The talented David Cromer directs (2:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); FILM (79%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); THEATER (59%); ADOPTION (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: HALLE BERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



958 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: 2 Faces of Latin America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Kids Left Behind by the Boom'' (column, March 21): 
Marie Arana has offered us a poignant portrayal of the on-the-ground effects of Peru's economic boom. But this is not a new formulation: booming economy, great inequality, possibility of rebellion. In fact, this was the way observers described Latin America in the 1960s, as the limits of post-World War II development projects became apparent.
When Latin Americans excluded from development organized at the grass roots to change their societies, military governments stepped in to quell dissent, with the explicit support of the United States.
Today, we need to start out by observing that the juxtaposition of economic growth and poverty -- and of democracy and violence -- has been a staple of development in the global south since the 1960s and continues today. Then we can move on to the work of supporting Latin Americans who envision enduring reform and are working to bring it about, through economic policy making and grass-roots activism.
JEFFREY W. RUBIN Amherst, Mass., March 22, 2013
The writer, an associate professor of history at Boston University, is the author of the book ''Sustaining Activism: A Brazilian Women's Movement and a Father-Daughter Collaboration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); HISTORY (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PERU (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



959 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: When John F. Kennedy Jr. Came to India

BYLINE: KABIR TANEJA


HIGHLIGHT: The little-known story of JFK Jr.&#8217;s incognito travels through India at age 23, where he slept on floors and haggled with tuk-tuk drivers. 

 BODY:
India in 1983 was still in its infant stages of economic development; however, like today, it was a popular destination among Westerners with its marketable poverty, a lingering sense of spirituality, mysticism and a rich history.
Around 20 years after United States President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, his son, John F. Kennedy Jr., was ready to take on the world as a fresh 23-year-old history graduate from Brown University. After finishing his education, he took a working year off in which he traveled to India to spend some time at Delhi University, where he researched topics of his personal interests like food production, health and education.
Having the fortunes, or misfortunes, of being attached to that famous American family name, Mr. Kennedy's India trip was well designed to protect his identity through a collaborative effort by both Indian and American governments. In Delhi, instead of the American Embassy, Mr. Kennedy stayed at various places, from the dingy hotels of Pahar Ganj in the center of the city to the embassies of America's allies. 
At the same time, during Delhi's winter season, Narendra Taneja, a journalist (who is also the father of this reporter), was a regular attendee of the city's expat "wine-and-cheese" scene. At one such do at the Irish Embassy, he met a young man who was staying at the residence of the embassy's second secretary, on the floor, in a sleeping bag.
"We just got talking, and I asked him where he was staying for his trip to Delhi, and he, with a smirk, pointed towards a corner of the room's floor," Mr. Taneja recalled.
"At that time, I had just shifted to Delhi and was staying in a professor's house in .I.I.T," the Indian Institute of Technology, he said. "The professor was traveling abroad for a few months and had lent me his big four-room house. I had a lot of space so I offered this guy a room, seeing that he was sleeping on the floor. He took up the offer, and after some time we took a tuk-tuk and left for my place."
Mr. Taneja continued, "As we talked sitting in the living room and having instant noodles for dinner later that night, he brought out his diary and started to flip pages, showing his written musings about travels, family and so on. As he flipped through the pages, there were photos of him and his family. After quick glances, I started to realize that most of his pictures were with John F. Kennedy and his wife, Jackie Kennedy.
"I inquired about the photographs, and he replied, 'Well, they are my parents,' and that is when I realized I had John F. Kennedy Jr. living in my house. We had a very interesting chat for the rest of the evening about his life in America."
The very next morning, an American Embassy official visited Mr. Taneja. He asked about Mr. Kennedy's residence there and asked Mr. Taneja to make sure Mr. Kennedy's presence was not leaked to the press or any other such institution.
But somehow a professor at I.I.T. discovered Mr. Kennedy's identity and that he was living on campus. He called Mr. Taneja and asked whether Mr. Kennedy would like to come over for tea.
"I hesitated but agreed, telling him no one else should know about him staying here," Mr. Taneja said.
When they reached his place, they found that the professor had also ended up inviting 20 other people in an attempt to show off his clout, that he knew John F. Kennedy's son.
"We decided to stay even though I had asked him specifically not to let anyone know," Mr. Taneja said. "After a while, the professor decided to ask John a question, and he asked, 'So do you remember when your father was assassinated?' John, aghast, looked at me, and I stared at the professor in disbelief that this question was actually tabled to him.
"We left his house within minutes, and I apologized to him. 'It's O.K., it's just that no one ever asks me that,' he said."
The next day, Mr. Taneja was preparing to go to a small town near Agra called Tundla, and Mr. Kennedy expressed his wish to join him as well. Upon being told that the travel included crowded trains in third-class compartments, he insisted that travel conditions did not bother him.
"He not once complained throughout his stay about anything. In fact, he even took up some typical Indian traits, such as haggling with the tuk-tuk driver over the price of the journey," Mr. Taneja said.
They reached Tundla, a town in the state of Uttar Pradesh, where life was based around the Indian Railways, which operated a big train junction. After moving around for a while and meeting a host of locals, Mr. Kennedy was introduced to an Indian jyotishee, or a palm reader. He obliged when the palm reader offered to read his hand, and sat down with him.
After a few minutes, the palm reader looked at him, then at his hosts, and announced, "This man is the son of a king," Mr. Taneja recalled.
This sudden statement took Mr. Kennedy back by surprise, Mr. Taneja said. As his identity was not to be divulged, no one said anything, but the palmist continued and asked him, "You have to be the son of a king. Who are you?"
Later that day, struck by the palmist's comments, Mr. Kennedy insisted on going back to him, but this time alone. He ended up spending two hours with the jyotishee, and what was discussed between the two remains between them.
"John spent a week with me before making his way to Varanasi and then on to Kolkata," then called Calcutta, Mr. Taneja said. "Even until Varanasi he went in a third-class, non-air-conditioned train without a confirmed reservation, sharing the everyday experience of the common folk of India."
Little is known about Mr. Kennedy's trip to the spiritual city of Varanasi on the banks of the Ganges, but in Kolkata he was hosted by another journalist at the request of the Indian government. Upon arriving in the City of Joy, he stayed with M.J. Akbar and his family at their residence in the Chitralekha building.
"He stayed with us for a week," said Mr. Akbar. "It was great fun having him. I remember that women used to line up around the staircase of the building as he ran up and down, bare bodied, for eight floors whenever there was no electricity and the lift would not work.
"He was well informed about U.S. politics, and we had some good debates on topics such as the era of imperialism in America and India," he recalled.
While in Kolkata, Mr. Kennedy also visited Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity headquarters as part of his study, along with other institutions in the city.
"Even after he left, we stayed in touch," said Mr. Taneja. "He sent me copies of his magazine, George, which he started in 1995."
Mr. Kennedy died in a plane crash on July 16, 1999, along with his wife, Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy, and sister-in-law, Lauren Bessette. Prayers were offered in Kolkata by Mother Teresa's order of nuns, remembering him not as a Kennedy, but as that down-to-earth, idealistic student.
 Kabir Taneja is a freelance journalist, you can contact him on Twitter @KabirTaneja. 

        
Selling 'Midnight's Children' in India
        
Five Ways Indian Internet Users Are Fighting for Free Speech
        
In Bangladesh, Stranded on the Borders of Two Bengals
        
Tata Wins Land Appeal, Deals Blow to Mamata Banerjee
        
Maharashtra State Headquarters Evacuated After Fire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); WRITERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%) India; Kennedy, John F Jr; Kolkata (India); Varanasi (India)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%) Kennedy, John F Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (91%); KOLKATA, INDIA (89%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (74%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) India; Kolkata (India); Varanasi (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



960 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Cyberattacks Seem Meant to Destroy, Not Just Disrupt

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: American Express is the latest victim in a wave of attacks on the online operations of American banks, David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth on Friday in The New York Times. 

 BODY:
American Express customers trying to gain access to their online accounts on Thursday were met with blank screens or an ominous ancient type face. The company confirmed that its Web site had come under attack, David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth report on Friday in The New York Times. 
The assault was the latest in an intensifying campaign of unusually powerful attacks on American financial institutions that began in September and have taken dozens of them offline intermittently, costing millions of dollars.
Corporate leaders have long feared online attacks aimed at financial fraud or economic espionage, but now a new threat has taken hold: attackers, possibly with state backing, who seem bent on destruction.
"The attacks have changed from espionage to destruction," said Alan Paller, director of research at SANS, a cybersecurity training organization. "Nations are actively testing how far they can go before we will respond."
Security experts who studied the attack said it was part of the same campaign that took down the Web sites of JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and others over the last six months. A group that calls itself the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed responsibility for those attacks.
The group says it is retaliating for an anti-Islamic video posted on YouTube last fall. But American intelligence officials and industry investigators say they believe that the group is a convenient cover for Iran. Just how tight the connection is - or whether the group is acting on direct orders from the Iranian government - is unclear. Government officials and bank executives have failed to produce a smoking gun.

        
Daily Report: Hacking Attacks Are Linked to Man at Chinese Firm
        
Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
        
Executives May Be Too Confident on Cybersecurity, Survey Finds
        
Daily Report: Dispute on Spam Stirs Big Assault on the Internet
        
Daily Report: Google Concedes That Drive-by Prying Violated Privacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET BANKING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (75%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (51%) Computer Security; Computers and the Internet; Industrial Espionage; American Express Company; American Express Company|AXP|NYSE; Security

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (59%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (59%); WFC (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%) American Express Company; AXP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (59%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



961 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: A Minivan With a Built-In Vacuum

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A minivan with a built-in vacuum, olive oil&#8217;s secret may be in its scent, a warning about tax season frauds and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Health care law to increase some premiums, study finds. (National)
        
Most restaurant children's meals still unhealthy. (Business)
        
Fast and friendly running tracks in New York. (N.Y./Region)
        
A bill of rights for cruise ship passengers. (In Transit)
        
After your college admissions decision arrives. (The Choice)
        
Using ex-smokers to spur other to quit. (Well)
        
The cost of reducing trips to the emergency room. (Well)
        
Extra fibercan provide stroke protection. (Well)
        
Olive oil's secret may be in its scent. (Well)
        
An allergy treatmentthat goes under the tongue. (Well)
        
A built-in vacuum in a minivan, and other parental wishes. (Motherlode)
        
Capturing live video from your iPhone's screen. (Pogue's Posts)
        
Median household income down 7.3% since start of recession. (Economix)
        
Beware of tax season frauds. (Gadgetwise)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); SMOKING (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRUISES (71%); SMOKING CESSATION (70%); ALLERGIES (53%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



962 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Food Union Organizers Get Some Historical Perspective

BYLINE: JULIE TURKEWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Two sanitation workers from the successful 1968 strike in Memphis that drew the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered a series of pep talks to fast-food servers in New York facing an uphill campaign to unionize. 

 BODY:
When Alvin Turner and Baxter Leach joined a strike in Memphis in 1968, they were two sanitation workers protesting the abuse of black employees and demanding higher wages and the recognition of their union. They recalled being beaten and assaulted with tear gas by the police during marches. But after more than 60 days, the strike ended with the city granting many of their demands.
More than four decades later, in November 2012, New York City's fast-food workers started their own campaign to improve conditions, calling for the creation of a union and a wage of $15 an hour. Workplace experts called it the largest organized effort ever by fast-food workers. But after a one-day strike in which 200 employees walked out, little has changed for workers at the thousands of hamburger, sandwich and taco restaurants that fill the city. 
Which is why Mr. Turner, 78, and Mr. Leach, 73, traveled to Manhattan this week to give a series of pep talks to fast-food servers facing an uphill unionization campaign. "The same fight that we fought in 1968, we are fighting today," Mr. Turner said Thursday, during an appearance at City University of New York. 
Mr. Turner made 65 cents an hour when he began working for the Memphis Sanitation Department in 1951, a pittance even for that era. He and Mr. Baxter worked as garbage collectors, running behind homes, dumping trash into large tubs and hoisting those tubs onto their heads. 
They especially remember the maggots, they said. And the fact that the color of their skin restricted them from higher-paying jobs. "I had gotten tired of saying 'yes,'" to abuse," Mr. Turner said, "when I knew I should be saying 'no.'" 
During the strike, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. traveled to Memphis to support the 1,300 striking workers. And, of course, it was in Memphis where he was assassinated. 
The strike ended less than two weeks later with the city agreeing to raise wages and recognize the union. Mr. Turner explained how this changed his life: "After the strike, one of those machines that they didn't allow me to hardly look at" - it was called a sweeper - "I started operating it. This is how I could get my kids through school. And I put four kids through school."
New York's fast-food unionization campaign, called Fast Food Forward, is organized by New York Communities for Change, and has the support of several other organizations, including the Service Employees International Union. But organizers have struggled to convince food servers that improved conditions are possible. 
While workers have plenty to lament - average wages hover just above $8 an hour, or $18,000 a year for a full-time employee - heavy worker turnover and a general apprehension of unions has made organizing a challenge.
Chad Tall, 20, a Taco Bell employee who wants to unionize, said the campaign is stuck in its awareness phase. "There isn't a next step right now," he said. 
Mr. Tall, who lives in the Bronx, is his family's primary wage earner. He makes $7.50 an hour and works about 30 hours a week. He dropped out of college because he could not afford to pay for courses. "I'm not trying to be a millionaire working at Taco Bell," he said. "But I do want the basics. I don't want to have to sacrifice breakfast to buy a Metro Card."
On Mr. Tall's block, nearly everyone he knows works in fast-food restaurants, he said. So do at least six of his friends. He joined the campaign because he does not want to continue a situation in which, he said, "we're treated like workhorses and paid like slaves" and "the only babysitter you can afford is the crackhead on the corner."
At CUNY, Mr. Leach and Mr. Turner sat in a circle with Mr. Tall and about a dozen other workers and clergy members. "For all of you to win anything, you're going to have to stand up," Mr. Turner said . 
"If you don't stand up, you're going to stay with what you got," he continued. "And if you do stand up, you're opening the door for someone else."

        
Weak Job Market Leaves City's Unemployment Rate Flat
        
City Has Financial Ties to Carwashes Under Investigation, Report Says
        
Mexican New Yorkers Are More Likely to Live in Poor Households
        
Growing Work Force Accounts for High Jobless Rate, Study Says
        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%) Fast Food Industry; Labor and Jobs; New York City; Labor

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



963 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Rebuke for Republican Congressman Who Used Slur

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Don Young of Alaska apologized for using the slur to describe Hispanic farm workers who picked tomatoes on his father&#8217;s ranch. 

 BODY:
Under pressure from Congressional leaders and advocacy groups, Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, has apologized for describing Hispanic farm workers who picked tomatoes on his father's ranch as "wetbacks" in an interview.
"I apologize for the insensitive term I used during an interview in Ketchikan, Alaska," Mr. Young said in a statement on Friday. "There was no malice in my heart or intent to offend; it was a poor choice of words. That word, and the negative attitudes that come with it, should be left in the 20th century, and I'm sorry that this has shifted our focus away from comprehensive immigration reform."
On Thursday, after the interview was released, Mr. Young tried to explain his remarks, saying that he "meant no disrespect" by using the term in a discussion about the labor market. He said that its usage was common when he was growing up in central California. 
But leaders from both parties demanded a fuller apology. Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said Friday that there was "no excuse" for the remarks, which he deemed "offensive and beneath the dignity of the office he holds."

"I don't care why he said it - there's no excuse and it warrants an immediate apology," Mr. Boehner said.
Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, said the remarks did not reflect the party's views.
"Migrant workers come to America looking for opportunity and a way to provide a better life for their families," he said in a statement. "They do not come to this country to hear ethnic slurs and derogatory language from elected officials. The comments used by Representative Young do nothing to elevate our party, political discourse or the millions who come here looking for economic opportunity."
Mr. Young, 79, is serving his 20th consecutive term.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, demanded an apology on Twitter for "deeply offensive comments that were not appropriate in his youth or now."
Representative Rubén Hinojosa of Texas, the Democratic chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said Friday that his colleague should have known better than to use the "hateful" word.
"He has served alongside Hispanics in Congress since 1973, so he should know terms like 'wetback' have never been acceptable," Mr. Hinojosa said.
Mr. Young's gaffe came as a bipartisan group of lawmakers is set to unveil legislation to overhaul the nation's immigration laws and create a pathway to citizenship for the nation's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.
"When elected officials use racial slurs, it sets back our nation and sets back legislators who are seriously working toward real, bipartisan solutions," Mr. Hinojosa said.
In recent weeks, leading Republicans have expressed a desire to change the party's tone toward Latinos and immigration policy, with the Republican National Committee pledging to spend $10 million on outreach to women and minorities, after a report revealed deep disconnects with those pivotal groups.
Reince Priebus, the party chairman, said Mr. Young's words "emphatically do not represent the beliefs of the Republican Party."
"As I have continued to say, everyone in this country deserved to be treated with dignity and respect," he said in a statement. "Our party represents freedom and opportunity for every American and a beacon of hope to those seeking liberty throughout the world."
Mr. Young, the second most senior Republican member of Congress, is no stranger to political difficulties. He has held on to his Congressional seat for 40 years, despite a number of missteps and tough races. The House is currently investigating whether he broke House rules by improperly using campaign funds for personal use and not reporting hunting trips he took that were paid for by an unknown third party, after an inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

        
Bachmann Is Subject of Ethics Investigation
        
As Congress Votes to Avert One Fiscal Crisis, Boehner Moves On to Another
        
Evangelical Groups Call for Path to Citizenship in Immigration Overhaul
        
Bipartisan House Group Nearing Agreement on Immigration Blueprint
        
Club for Growth Leads Conservative Charge, Sometimes at Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); FARM LABOR (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); CAUCUSES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%) Hinojosa, Ruben; Hispanic-Americans; House of Representatives; Young, Don; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: DON YOUNG (92%); RUBEN HINOJOSA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%) Hinojosa, Ruben; Young, Don

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



964 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Raids in Russia Target 'Foreign Agents'

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Russia has dismissed Western concerns about a wave of raids targeting civil society groups in Russia. Could President Vladimir V. Putin&#8217;s latest hard-line tactic to marginalize his opponents backfire on the Kremlin leader? 

 BODY:
LONDON - It has been a nerve-jangling week for civil society groups in Russia as they awaited a knock on the door by state officials on the hunt for "foreign agents."
Amid concerns among international advocacy organizations about what has been described as the worst crackdown on Russian democracy since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the authorities have raided scores of offices of rights groups, foreign cultural bodies and other nongovernmental organizations.
Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and Transparency International, the corruption watchdog, were among those targeted, as well as Memorial, Russia's oldest human rights organization. 
The Russian Justice Ministry said the checks by judicial and tax officials were to investigate if the real activities of these organizations matched the declared ones.
Responding to Western criticism that the raids amounted to harassment and intimidation, President Vladimir V. Putin described them on Thursday as "legal and routine."
The raids follow adoption last year of a law requiring N.G.O.'s that receive foreign funding to declare themselves foreign agents, a term that, to Russians, evokes Cold War-era espionage. 
The day before the law came into force in November, unidentified people painted the words "Foreign Agent. Love U.S.A." on the wall of Memorial's Moscow offices.
Although noncompliance carries large fines, possible jail terms, and potential closure, no organization has so far registered.
The law remained on the statute book for several months while the Justice Ministry argued that it was unenforceable. But, in February, Mr. Putin told officers of the F.S.B. intelligence service that it must be executed.
"Any direct or indirect interference in our internal affairs" was unacceptable, he said.
Reacting to the wave of raids that began on March 21, High Williamson, Human Rights Watch's Europe director, said the scale of the operations was "unprecedented and only serves to reinforce the menacing atmosphere for civil society."
"The Russian authorities should end, rather than intensify, the crackdown that's been under way for the past year," he said.
The U.S. State Department expressed deep concern at what looked like a witch hunt, while German and French officials warned that the inspections could damage their countries' relations with Moscow.
Catherine Ashton, the European Union's policy chief, said this week, "The ongoing raids, taken together with the recent package of legislation that curtails the civil freedoms of the Russian population ... constitute a trend that is deeply troubling." 
The Economist this week reported a broader fear among civil society groups that other newly passed laws will be reanimated. These include a treason law that targets anyone who offers information or assistance to a foreign state or international group.
Sean Roberts, a researcher at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs, wrote last month that the N.G.O law was part of a wider strategy to prevent the resurgence of a protest movement against Mr. Putin's rule.
However, he suggested the Russian leader's hardline tactics were potentially undermining his efforts to isolate the opposition and maintain a national consensus.
"The Putin administration's tough line has altered the regime's delicate balance," he wrote, "marginalizing the sizable liberal-leaning elite who view Russia's prosperity and security tied to political modernization."

        
Human Rights and Sports Events
        
Putin Under Fire From International Rights Groups
        
Health Concerns for Russia's Alpha Dog
        
'We're All Pussy Riot Now'
        
Has Putin Lost His Sex Appeal?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (94%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); TREASON (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%) human rights watch; NGOs; russia; vladimir putin; Putin, Vladimir V; Human Rights and Human Rights Violations; Human Rights Watch; Russia; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: Human Rights Watch

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (59%) Putin, Vladimir V

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); GERMANY (76%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (68%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



965 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Health Care Prices Are the Elephant in the Room

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Until voters demand transparent and equitable pricing, it will be hard for the United States to control health care spending, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Traditionally, the theory driving discussions on the high cost of health care in the United States has been that there is enormous waste in the system, taking the form of excess utilization of care. From that theory it follows that methods of controlling the growth of health spending should focus on ways to reduce the use of unnecessary or only marginally beneficial health care.
Largely overlooked in these discussions has been the elephant in the room: the extraordinarily high prices Americans pay for health care. However, as a group of us noted in a paper in 2004, "It's the Prices, Stupid," it is higher health spending coupled with lower - not higher - use of health services that adds up to much higher prices in the United States than in any other member nation of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Aside from a few high-tech services, Americans actually use less health care and rely on fewer real health-care resources than do residents of other industrialized countries. 
Readers who want to get a peek at this elephant in the room should peruse the set of slides published a few days ago by the International Federation of Health Plans, a global network of private health-insurance plans with 100 members in 31 countries. The federation annually surveys prices actually paid for selected health care goods and services in the different countries.

Shown below are three slides from the set: 
In most other countries, prices for health care goods and services are not negotiated between individual health insurers and individual physicians, hospitals or drug companies, as they are in the private insurance sector in United States. 
Instead prices there either are set by government or negotiated between associations of insurers and providers of care, on a regional, state or national basis. The single prices for other countries shown in the chart therefore can be taken representative of prices actually paid there. 
By contrast, as can be seen in the charts, in the United States there is quite a range of prices for the identical good or service. 
Ideally, the federation should also have shown the median for prices in the United States. The median represents the midpoint of a frequency distribution; if the distribution of prices is skewed toward either low or high values, the average will be either above or below the midpoint and may not be representative.
Whatever the case may be with the distributions of American prices underlying the charts, it seems clear that the prices for health care in the United States are much higher than they are in other nations. As we noted in the paper cited above, it goes a long way toward explaining why, on average and in purchasing-power parity dollars per-capita, health spending in the United States is so much higher than it is elsewhere in the world. 
My explanation for the relative high prices Americans pay for health care relative to other countries is that the payment side of the health care market in the private sector is fragmented, weakening the bargaining power of individual insurers, especially vis-à-vis the increasingly consolidated hospital sector, although other factors, including malpractice premiums, play a part as well. 
To endow the payment side of health care with more market muscle, I have proposed an all-payer system based on the models used in Germany or Switzerlandor in the state of Maryland. In these systems, government does not dictate prices. Instead, health care prices are negotiated at what Europeans call a "quasi market" level. 
Average or median prices aside, however, the federation charts also show that the variation of prices for identical items within the United States - even within a single city - dwarfs the cross-national variation in prices for the same item. That phenomenon has begun to attract attention in the news media only lately. 
As Consumer Reports noted in an illuminating article, "Health care prices are all over the map, even within your plan's network." The chart at the bottom of the article, based on the Healthcare Blue Book on prices, is especially revealing.
The high variance of health care prices in the United States can be explained in good part by the opacity of these prices. Both government and the private sector have done their best to maintain that opacity. 
It is possible to find prices paid by Medicare on the Web, but they are written in code that means something to the providers of health care although little to patients.
Pretend to be a prospective patient searching the Web for Medicare fees. Google "Medicare fee schedules." At the top of the list you will find this Web site. Try to find the fee for a screening colonoscopy in your area.
If you get frustrated, try this one. 
Good luck on your hunt for Medicare fees.
Fees in the private health care sector have been jealously guarded trade secrets among insurers and providers of health care. True, some health insurers now provide their insured members with "cost estimates," by provider and by major procedure, of what the procedures rendered by a particular providers might cost patients out of pocket, but not full prices. I have found the site for that purpose on my insurance policy very difficult and cumbersome to navigate. 
For uninsured patients (also known as self-pay patients) full price information is hard to come by. I tried it again just the other day, calling up a New Jersey hospital and seeking a price for a colonoscopy. After a runaround of several telephone calls, I gave up. I have described the attempt more fully in response to a comment on the previous blog post.
It is truly remarkable that few state governments have made any effort to provide their residents with greater price transparency in health care, as well they could and should.
A report on March 18, "Report Card on State Price Transparency Laws" by the Catalyst for Payment Reform and the Health Care Incentives Improvement Institute gives 29 states the failing grade of F on this score, including New York and New Jersey. Another 6 earned a D, barely passing. Only Massachusetts and New Hampshire earned an A. 
With so much carefully guarded and government-shielded opacity on health care prices, it should be no surprise that prices for health care vary as much as they do in the United States, even within small regions and for the same health insurer. 
It will not change until citizens make it an issue in political campaigns. 

        
Small Companies and the Affordable Care Act
        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
Forgiveness Formulas
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013



966 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Questioning Fairness of Medicare Rules on Readmissions

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
It is no longer enough for hospitals to make patients healthy enough to leave. Now, as part of the Obama administration's health care overhaul, they are spending millions of dollars to keep those patients from coming back, often acting like personal assistants to help them manage their post-hospital lives.
While federal statistics show the effort is beginning to reduce costly and unnecessary readmissions, a growing chorus of critics is asking whether the government policy, which penalizes hospitals that have high readmission rates, is unfair. They are also questioning whether hospitals should be responsible for managing the personal lives of patients once they are released -- or whether they should focus on other ways to improve care.
''It's consumed a lot of resources,'' said Dr. J. Michael Henderson, who focuses on quality and patient safety for the Cleveland Clinic, which attributes its relatively high readmission rate to the fact that it successfully treats a high number of severely ill patients. 
Under the new federal regulations, hospitals face hefty penalties for readmitting patients they have already treated, on the theory that many readmissions result from poor follow-up care.
It makes for cheaper and better care in the long run, the thinking goes, to help patients stay healthy than to be forced to readmit them for another costly hospital stay.
So hospitals call patients within 48 hours of discharge to find out how they are feeling. They arrange patients' follow-up appointments with doctors even before a patient leaves. And they have redoubled their efforts to make sure patients understand what medicines to take at home.
But hospitals have also taken on responsibilities far outside the medical realm: they are helping patients arrange transportation for follow-up doctor visits, get safe housing or even find a hot meal, all in an effort to keep them healthy.
''There's a huge opportunity to reduce the cost of medical care by addressing these other things, the social aspects,'' said Dr. Samuel Skootsky, chief medical officer of the U.C.L.A. Faculty Practice Group and Medical Group.
Medicare, which monitors hospitals' compliance with the new rules, says nearly two-thirds of hospitals receiving traditional Medicare payments are expected to pay penalties totaling about $300 million in 2013 because too many of their patients were readmitted within 30 days of discharge. Last month, the agency reported that readmissions had dropped to 17.8 percent by late last year from about 19 percent in 2011.
But increasingly, health policy experts and hospital executives say the penalties, which went into effect in October, unfairly target hospitals that treat the sickest patients or the patients facing the greatest socioeconomic challenges. They say a hospital's readmission rate is not a clear measure of the quality of care it provides, noting that hospitals with higher mortality rates may also have fewer returning patients.
''Dead patients can't be readmitted,'' Dr. Henderson said.
''We're using a proxy because it's a convenient proxy -- it's just not a very accurate proxy,'' said Dr. Karen E. Joynt, a health policy expert and co-author of an article critical of the penalties in The New England Journal of Medicine this month. Large academic medical centers and so-called safety-net hospitals are bearing the brunt of the new policy, and the authors warn that the penalties could make it even harder for hospitals struggling to care for those patients with the highest needs. The current policy, the article says, ''has the potential to exacerbate disparities in care and create disincentives to providing care for patients who are particularly ill or who have complex health needs.''
The penalties, which apply to rates of readmission after hospitalization for heart attacks, pneumonia and heart failure, are now calculated at 1 percent of hospital payments but will increase to 3 percent by 2015. Medicare also expects to expand the targeted readmissions to include more kinds of hospitalizations, like those for chronic lung disease.
Some hospitals say they have little choice but to incur the penalties, simply because they have other demands. At Boston Medical Center, which serves a high number of low-income patients, efforts to reduce readmissions, including making follow-up appointments and writing out a simple plan of what to do after leaving the hospital, have been successful for Medicaid patients.
But the medical center chose not to immediately expand the program to all patients, including the Medicare patients who would count toward future penalties.
''We make those trade-offs,'' said Dr. Stanley Hochberg, the center's chief quality officer. Medicare's focus on readmissions ''doesn't necessarily align with our social priorities and medical priorities,'' he said. Medicare officials say they have listened to hospitals' concerns but defend the policy as heading in the right direction. ''It's a very traumatic event to go back to the hospital,'' said Jonathan Blum, a senior Medicare official. ''I'm personally comfortable with some imprecision to our measures.''
''The ultimate goal is to have these numbers come down,'' he said.
Because so many hospital readmissions are tied to social or economic factors, hospitals have a hard time predicting which patients are likely to return, said Dr. Jan Berger, the chief medical officer for Silverlink Communications, a consulting firm. When Marjorie Crear, 66, left Ronald Reagan U.C.L.A. Medical Center after a stroke, she struggled to keep track of her medications and to remember her doctor appointments. Tiffany Phan, a newly hired care manager, helped with those tasks and has also been trying to find public housing with a shower instead of a hard-to-navigate bathtub.
Making it even harder for hospitals is the number of consultants and companies springing up to offer solutions with little hard evidence about which steps are the most effective. ''We don't really know very clearly how to prevent more readmissions,'' said Austin Frakt, a health economist at Boston University.
In some cases, such prevention may take a combination of efforts that differ from hospital to hospital, said Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, chief executive of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which has been financing pilot programs aimed at reducing readmissions. ''One of the key factors we keep emphasizing is that there isn't a single magic bullet to fix everything,'' she said.
And complicating the issue even further is the possibility of doing harm. In 2011, for example, the Department of Veterans Affairs halted a program in which patients with chronic lung disease were supposed to learn to take better care of themselves when 28 patients in the program died, in contrast to 10 deaths in the group receiving typical care.
''It was just an incredible thing,'' said Dr. Dennis E. Niewoehner, a researcher from the University of Minnesota who said the findings were ''a warning signal'' for others thinking about embarking on similar programs. The higher death rate may have been purely chance, he said, but the researchers, who published their findings last year, do not know.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tiffany Phan, left, a care manager at U.C.L.A. hospital, spoke to Marjorie Crear about medications and doctors' appointments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); STATISTICS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



967 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Heats Up, Traffic Backs Up

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
TRAFFIC is getting worse in the United States, according to a company that monitors driving time by tracking cellphones and GPS devices in cars and trucks.
And while that is not good news for those facing delays, it is for the economy. 
''Traffic is a great indicator of confidence on the ground,'' said Bryan Mistele, the chief executive of Inrix, which compiles what it calls the Inrix Gridlock Index. ''People hit the road as they return to work, and businesses ship more freight as their orders increase.'' The rise in the index, he said on Friday, ''shows the pulse of the economy is starting to beat faster.''
Drivers in most European countries, however, do not face the same traffic problem. With some of those economies in recession, travel times are declining.
Inrix, based in Kirkland, Wash., says it has data since 2010 on how long it takes vehicles to travel on roads in 100 metropolitan areas in the United States, as well as abroad. The data is collected from companies that monitor their fleet vehicles through GPS systems, and from cellphones and GPS devices in cars that use some mobile navigation programs.
It says it then calculates the figures for 15-minute intervals throughout the week, and is able to separate out vehicles that stop for other reasons -- like a taxi picking up or discharging a passenger.
It then determines how long trips take versus how long they would take if there were no traffic to contend with, and calculates the average increase in trip length for each area, expressed as a percentage of the minimum time.
The accompanying charts show how much those delays increased, or decreased, in each month compared with the same month a year earlier. A figure above zero indicates that traffic delays are getting worse; one below zero indicates that traffic is speeding up.
For the United States as a whole, said Jim Bak, an Inrix official, ''the data shows a double-dip,'' plateauing in 2011 and then falling again last autumn. ''We saw things improve again after the election,'' he said. By improving, he means that delays are increasing.
For the United States as a whole, December was the first month since the data became available to show that delays were getting longer on a year-over-year basis. That continued in January and grew in February.
There are, of course, other reasons than the health of the economy for traffic moving faster or slower. Weather is an obvious one, but by reporting the data as monthly averages that are compared with the same month of the previous year, that is at least partly adjusted for.
In Europe, delays have recently been declining at only a slow rate in France and Britain, perhaps indicating that economic downturns in those countries are stabilizing. But the delays are all but vanishing in Italy and Spain, and have also been falling in Germany.
Honolulu, which has some of the worst traffic delays in the United States, has seen them getting worse in recent months, as have Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco. But delays seem to be getting shorter in both Seattle and Washington.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Good News: U.S. Traffic Is Getting Worse: American traffic delays are rising for the first time in years, according to a Gridlock Index based on data from 100 metropolitan areas. That's an indication that the economy is getting healthier, according to an analysis by Inrix, a data firm. But traffic congestion problems have virtually vanished in some European countries.
Percentage change in traffic delays from previous year
SELECTED U.S. CITIES
 SELECTED EUROPEAN COUNTRIES (Source: Inrix) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



968 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: An Unlikely Jihadist, Denouncing Assad in Mandarin

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Robert F. Worth contributed reporting from Washington. Patrick Zuo contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The man in camouflage fatigues raised his Kalashnikov rifle and fired three shots into the air while trudging through a field of purple and yellow flowers.
He told the person filming him that after reading the works of Sayyid Qutb, the modern Islamist theorist, he had gone to study in Libya and witnessed the revolution there. Then he traveled to Syria to help overthrow the government of Bashar al-Assad, which he said ''is butchering every Muslim here in cold blood, including children and women.''
He spoke in Mandarin. He called himself Yusef, but a subtitle in English said his Chinese name was Bo Wang. On the surface, he appeared to be an extremely rare -- perhaps the only -- example of an ethnic Han citizen of China joining a jihadist group in the Arab world. 
The bizarre video first got the attention of some Chinese last week, when it was posted on YouTube and then on Youku, a popular video-sharing site in China. It was quickly deleted from there, possibly by censors aware that the material was too delicate for the sensibilities of Chinese officials. In the video, the man told the Chinese government to drop its support of Mr. Assad or ''all Islamic countries of the world will unite to impose economic sanctions against the Chinese government.''
China and Russia have blocked Western members of the United Nations Security Council from authorizing the use of force to intervene in the increasingly bloody Syrian civil conflict, and China has repeatedly said that foreign nations should engage in dialogue with Mr. Assad to resolve the crisis rather than exercise military power.
It was not possible to verify the authenticity of the video, which was posted on YouTube on March 17 by a user named ayahm84, and then on Youku by someone using the handle of ''Bashar al-Assad.'' But two people with contacts in Syria said they had heard of the Chinese rebel fighter, and the green landscape in the video closely resembles that of northern Syria.
There have been few, if any, cases of ethnic Han taking part in a jihadist movement in recent times. The Han are the dominant ethnic group in China and generally do not follow Islam. The two most prominent Muslim ethnic groups in China are the Hui and the Uighurs, who complain of discrimination by ethnic Han and by the Han-dominated Communist Party. Under the administration of President George W. Bush, 22 ethnic Uighurs from China captured by American forces in Afghanistan were sent to Guantánamo Bay, but they were later deemed by officials not to be enemy combatants.
''We've of course heard of American and other Western converts fighting alongside jihadis,'' said Bruce Hoffman, a professor at Georgetown University and a former RAND Corporation analyst who studies insurgencies and terrorism. ''I know of no Han Chinese, though. I would imagine that Chinese officials, given their perennial concern about the spread of radical Islam into western China, will not be pleased with this development.''
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said it did not have immediate comment.
The video, which runs for three minutes, 26 seconds, opens with the chanting of an Islamic anthem and title cards showing white text on black background. The title screen says in Arabic: ''The Mujahedeen Brigade in the Land of Sham,'' which is another name for Syria. More text says the video is a ''message to the Chinese people'' from the ''media division of the mujahedeen in the land of Sham.''
Images show the armed Chinese fighter walking through a forest with evergreen trees and stepping over flowers and stones. He carries a Kalashnikov in his right hand, then fires it.
The rest of the video shows him perched against a stone in the field with a bayonet fixed to his rifle, which is pointed outward, as if at an unseen enemy. He speaks to the camera, without a distinctive regional accent. To his right is a black flag with white writing.
The fighter briefly introduces himself and then lashes out at Mr. Assad. ''People have no freedom, no democracy, no security and no respect here, not at all,'' he said.
He goes on to speak of 1,400-year-old ties between the Chinese and the Arabs, stretching to the time of the Prophet Muhammad and the Tang dynasty, when the Silk Road thrived. ''However,'' he says, ''now the Chinese government has destroyed that traditional friendship between the Chinese and Arab people'' because Chinese leaders, along with their Iranian and Russian counterparts, ''sell weapons and provide financial assistance to the Assad government.''
There has been some discussion of the video on Chinese-language forums, though several of the original posts have been deleted. A post on one forum that remained online this week called the man ''a brain-poisoned youth blind to right and wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In an unusual rebel video, a man who calls himself Yusef rails at the Syrian government and urges China to drop its support. A subtitle in English says his Chinese name is Bo Wang. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIA YOUTUBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNICITY (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); COUPS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); RELIGION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: YOUKU TOUDU INC (91%); RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: YOKU (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



969 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: The Attack Of the Killer Surplus

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
It's not often we stop to ask ourselves: ''What's going on with North Dakota?'' But I believe this is the moment.
The State Legislature has been in a kind of anti-abortion meltdown, piling up bills with what-the-heck abandon. The House and Senate passed a ''fetal heartbeat'' bill that would prohibit abortions when a woman was about six weeks into pregnancy. They also each passed a ''fetal pain'' bill that would prohibit abortions at around 20 weeks. Plus a resolution giving fetuses the rights of personhood, which would not only prohibit abortion altogether, but would also outlaw some forms of infertility treatment and contraception. There was also a bill banning abortions on the basis of sex preference or possible genetic defects, none of which would be detectable by the time abortions were already prohibited under some of the other bills. 
The governor pretty much signed everything they threw at him. ''Folded like a tent in a blizzard,'' said an editorial in Fargo's daily paper. Opponents pointed out that while the House was busy protecting fetuses, it had killed a bill providing free milk or juice to impoverished schoolchildren who had actually been born. The Senate rectified that embarrassment, sort of. ''They're taking the money we give to school districts for at-risk children and saying you have to use that money to provide juice and milk programs,'' said Corey Mock, an assistant minority leader in the House.
Things are in flux in North Dakota. Anything could happen with the milk money. Or the amendment to one anti-abortion bill that would end a federally funded sex education program for homeless teenagers. The bills the governor signed will probably be challenged in court, including a law requiring doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges with a local hospital, which could doom the state's lone abortion provider, the Red River Women's Clinic.
North Dakota has a strong libertarian streak that comes to a screeching halt when it reaches reproduction rights. Still, this seemed out of character. North Dakotans tend to be emotionally conservative; they don't approve of getting carried away. Last year, voters soundly defeated a proposal to abolish all property taxes and a ''religious freedom'' law giving employers the right to refuse to provide health coverage for contraception. A lot of people who found the ideas attractive still feared they carried the dreaded seeds of immoderation.
''Middle of the road; that's what they call the North Dakota Way,'' said Jack Zaleski, the opinion editor of Fargo's daily.
This is the state that gave us national figures like Senator Kent Conrad, who was famous for speeches that involved his extensive use of very boring charts, and Senator Byron Dorgan, who liked to remind people that he had been personally honored by the U.S.A. Dry Pea and Lentil Council. I always admired that about North Dakota. What happened?
For one thing, the more aggressive wing of the anti-abortion movement is trying to use the state to stage a test case against Roe v. Wade. In the last election, several of these groups targeted Curtis Olafson, a conservative Republican state senator who had derailed some of their more spectacular bills under the theory that they would just lead to court fights that North Dakota would eventually lose. ''I hated to see taxpayers' money go down the drain for an exercise in futility,'' said Olafson, who is now an ex-senator, having lost his seat in a nasty primary.
So there's paranoia. But maybe the state also has too much money.
Until recently, North Dakota had a dwindling population and trouble balancing a very small state budget. Then came the oil boom and multibillion-dollar surpluses. ''We could bail out Cyprus, probably,'' said Mike Jacobs, the publisher of The Grand Forks Herald.
Now the employment problem is a shortage of workers. One of many issues that was not getting resolved while the Legislature worked on its abortion agenda is a preschool crisis in oil-rich parts of the state. ''They can't afford to keep staff at the child-care centers when fast-food restaurants are paying $15 to $16 an hour,'' said Kylie Oversen, a representative from Grand Forks.
When signing the fetal heartbeat bill, Gov. Jack Dalrymple admitted it would be immediately challenged in court, and he seemed to share Olafson's dim view of success. But, hey, if legislators want to give it a shot, what the heck? They've got cash. ''The Legislative Assembly before it adjourns should appropriate dollars for a litigation fund available to the attorney general,'' the governor suggested.
A shortage of money tends to keep things focused. When a legislature starts going off the rails, cool heads can pull the conversation back into line by reminding everybody that they're supposed to be focusing on ''jobs, jobs, jobs.'' It gets a little tiresome after a while, but it does provide a much-needed sense of direction. While our Congress is certainly unsatisfactory in many ways, it's shown a lack of enthusiasm for having major fights over social issues in recent years, possibly because everybody wants to look jobs-jobs-jobs obsessive.
North Dakota led astray by lucre? Finally, we may have found a good side to recessions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (76%); CONTRACEPTION (76%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (61%); WILLS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (73%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



970 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Americans Are Earning More Money, and Aren't Afraid to Spend It

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer spending rose in February and Americans' outlooks perked up this month, further signs of an acceleration in economic activity in the first quarter after a near stall late last year.
Data reported on Friday also showed a rebound in income growth, putting the economy in a better shape to deal with tighter fiscal policy, particularly $85 billion in across-the-board federal government spending cuts known as the sequester.
''The economy is in a good place now in terms of momentum and strength, and it will need it as the government spending cuts will take something off growth as the year progresses,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. 
Consumer spending increased 0.7 percent last month after a 0.4 percent rise in January, the Commerce Department said.
Part of the increase in spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of United States economic activity, was because of higher gasoline prices. But Americans also bought long-lasting goods like automobiles and spent more on services. The price of gas rose 35 cents a gallon last month.
After adjusting for inflation, spending was up 0.3 percent after rising by the same margin in January. Economists said it was headed toward its fastest growth pace since 2010.
''It appears that consumer spending actually accelerated in the first quarter despite the tax hikes implemented at the start of the year,'' said Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan in New York.
Some economists bumped up their first-quarter economic growth estimates.
Barclays raised its gross domestic product forecast by 0.7 percentage point, to 3.3 percent. Macroeconomic Advisers lifted its estimate by three-tenths of a point to 3.5 percent. The economy grew a 0.4 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter.
A separate report showed that households this month seemed to shrug off the deep government spending cuts. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment rose to a reading of 78.6, from 77.6 in February.
''Consumers have discounted the administration's warning that economic catastrophe would follow the reductions in federal spending, and consumers have renewed their expectation that gains in employment will accelerate through the rest of 2013,'' said the survey's director, Richard Curtin.
And they have reason to be optimistic. With steady improvement in the labor market, income increased a healthy 1.1 percent after tumbling 3.7 percent in January.
Employment growth gained steam in February, factory activity touched a one-and-a-half-year high and first-time filings for jobless benefits have increased just modestly so far in March.
Last month, the income at the disposal of households after inflation and taxes increased 0.7 percent, after dropping 4 percent in January.
With income growth outpacing spending, the saving rate -- the percentage of disposable income that households save -- rose to 2.6 percent, from 2.2 percent in January.
The higher gasoline prices pushed up inflation, with a price index for consumer spending rising 0.4 percent after being flat for two straight months. February's increase in the PCE index was the largest since August.
But a core reading that strips out food and energy costs rose only 0.1 percent after increasing 0.2 percent in January, showing no sign of underlying inflation pressures. Core prices were up 1.3 percent, well below the Federal Reserve's 2 percent target.
The benign inflation picture should give the Fed room to continue with its monetary stimulus as it seeks to bolster job growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Banana Republic in New York. Economists said consumer spending in the United States was increasing even with higher taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); TAX LAW (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



971 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: EADS's Newfound Freedom May Lead to Clash With Berlin

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
OTTOBRUNN, GERMANY -- Like the farmers tilling the fields that surround its sprawling German offices south of Munich, European Aeronautic Defense & Space, the parent company of Airbus, is making preparations for new beginnings.
This past week, its shareholders approved a new board of directors and formally dissolved a complex agreement that, for more than a decade, had given the governments of France and Germany an effective veto over company strategy.
''It's a huge change for us,'' Thomas Enders, the group's chief executive, said in an interview this month. The failure of a proposed merger last year with BAE Systems of Britain because of opposition from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany showed that ''when push came to shove, it was the shareholder pact that could outvote the board's independent directors.''
The board's new independence is likely to be put to the test quickly, as EADS prepares to disclose a new strategic plan that could put management on a fresh collision course with Berlin. 
The broad outlines of the new strategy, which Mr. Enders expects to reveal this summer, are likely to involve a re-evaluation of the company's previous goal -- formulated before the financial crisis -- of increasing its military business to 50 percent of revenue by 2020. That, analysts said, would mean a new approach to the lucrative U.S. market in the aftermath of the failed BAE merger.
It would also require casting a close eye over its underperforming -- and heavily German -- defense division, Cassidian.
''The biggest single weakness that EADS at least needs to acknowledge is that its defense business, on its own, is subscale,'' said Sash Tusa, an aerospace and military industry analyst at Echelon Research & Advisory in London. Cassidian, he noted, owns significant, but not controlling, stakes in some of Europe's biggest military joint ventures, including Eurofighter, the producer of the Typhoon combat jet, and MBDA, a missile manufacturer, as well as niche activities in military electronics and security.
''It's very fragmented,'' Mr. Tusa said. ''Some of those areas have synergies, but with most it's hard to see how they really fit together into a coherent whole.''
It has also not been hugely profitable. Like most military contractors in recent years, Cassidian, which contributed about half of EADS's &#x20ac;12 billion, or $15 billion, in defense revenue last year, has seen its growth stalled by sharp budget cutbacks in Europe and the United States. Stagnant earnings have prompted two restructurings of the unit since 2011, resulting in the loss of about 1,500 jobs. Cassidian's operating profit plunged 57 percent last year, to &#x20ac;142 million.
That contrasts sharply with EADS's booming commercial jet division, Airbus, which last year increased its sales 19 percent, representing 68 percent of the company's revenue. Operating profit more than doubled, to &#x20ac;1.1 billion from &#x20ac;543 million in 2011. Airbus's order backlog stands at more than 4,700 planes, enough to keep its assembly lines humming for nearly eight years.
Hence the temptation, some analysts say, to spin off EADS's military business entirely and either sell or merge its various activities with those of rival companies based mainly in France, Britain or Italy.
''It looks increasingly like an adjunct to a much bigger body,'' said Nick Cunningham, an aerospace analyst at Agency Partners in London. ''Even management refers to it as the 'non-Airbus' business.''
A spinoff is likely to be easier said than done. Cassidian employs about 23,000 people, of which a little more than half are based in Germany -- and in particular in Bavaria, a traditional bastion of support for the Christian Democratic Union party of Ms. Merkel, who is seeking re-election this autumn. The prospect of further high-technology job losses or the transfer of valuable intellectual property to foreign competitors would undoubtedly raise hackles in Berlin.
It was precisely those kinds of concerns that ultimately drove Ms. Merkel to reject a merger of EADS with BAE, a deal that would have created a $45 billion European aerospace behemoth to rival Boeing of the United States.
''The German government would go ballistic,'' said Mr. Tusa of Echelon. ''One of the big arguments being made by the economic ministry is, 'We give you lots of defense business, so you have got to provide a lot of high-tech jobs in Germany.' I can't think of a better way to alienate one of your best government customers for little or no financial gain.''
It is a challenge that is not lost on Mr. Enders, a 54-year-old German whose rise began in government. He acknowledged Cassidian's woes, which he said included a heavy dependence on older products like the Eurofighter Typhoon, whose German final assembly lines are in nearby Manching. The Typhoon generates more than &#x20ac;1 billion in annual revenue for EADS, but it is likely to cease production by around 2017.
''We have a very mature business, very much driven by Eurofighter and the businesses around combat aircraft,'' Mr. Enders said. ''Of course we have to look beyond that.''
Mr. Enders said he had ''no doubt'' that Cassidian's profitability could be improved, but he added that he would not rule out the sale of unprofitable assets in Germany or elsewhere. ''We've done that in the past,'' he said. ''It's part of the business of any company to do a bit of portfolio management.'' The success of Airbus, he added, would give EADS time to carefully weigh its strategic options for the military side of the business.
Yet Mr. Enders insisted that domestic political concerns, in Germany or elsewhere, would not play a part in the decision-making. ''We are not timing our strategic review or any other important projects according to whether somebody has an election year or not,'' Mr. Enders said. Under the new governance structure, he added, any divestments -- or acquisitions, for that matter -- were now ''fully in the scope of the new board of directors and not of shareholders or governments.''
EADS's future in the United States, meanwhile, poses different challenges.
The European group has made several attempts in recent years to significantly expand its footprint in the United States, the world's biggest spender on military hardware, with an annual budget of $500 billion. Those attempts have included an ultimately unsuccessful bid for a $35 billion aerial refueling tanker contract with the U.S. Air Force as well as the failed attempt last year to merge with BAE, one of the Pentagon's top 10 contractors.
In the current environment, however, that ''big bang'' focus on the U.S. market looks increasingly difficult to realize.
''The market reality is quite stark,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst at Teal Group in Fairfax, Virginia. ''To a certain extent, EADS is a prisoner of that. ''
With few if any major U.S. procurement programs on the horizon, ''EADS might have to fall back to the acquisition approach,'' said Mr. Cunningham of Agency Partners. But with major U.S. players like Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman almost certainly out of reach for national security reasons, he suggested that EADS ''could look at less-sensitive, less-sizable deals that over time aggregate into a significant business.''
Mr. Enders confirmed that the study of U.S. acquisition targets would figure prominently in the EADS strategy review. But he rejected the need to rush -- or to think small. ''I am not a believer in small acquisitions,'' he said. ''I think that a string-of-pearls approach is, in many cases, value-destroying. For a group like ours, it's easier to integrate and to acquire larger companies than smaller ones.''
That said, Mr. Enders said he was less focused on elbowing out U.S. rivals on their home turf. ''I have no illusions about how difficult it is to sell non-American products on the American market,'' he said. ''We should not even dream about trying to sell a product to a U.S. defense customer if it is not really superior to what our American peers are offering.''
Analysts tend to agree.
''The strategy should not be to get a percentage of U.S. exposure for the sake of it, but to manage defense as a nearly integrated business and make acquisitions when and where they fit,'' said Mr. Tusa of Echelon. ''They've got cash, they've got earnings. They can afford to sit on their hands for two years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (96%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (58%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (96%); EAD (MCE) (96%); BA (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



972 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Survey Highlights Data Theft Concerns for U.S. Companies in China

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- A quarter of companies that are members of a leading U.S. business lobby in China have been victims of data theft, a report by the group said Friday, as ties between Beijing and Washington have become increasingly strained over the threat of cyberattacks.
Twenty-six percent of the members who responded to an annual survey said that their proprietary data or trade secrets had been compromised or stolen at their China operations, according to the report from the business lobby, the American Chamber of Commerce in China. 
''This poses a substantial obstacle for business in China, especially when considered alongside the concerns over I.P.R. enforcement and de facto technology transfer requirements,'' the chamber said, referring to weak enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Mandiant, a U.S. computer security company, said in February that a secretive Chinese military unit was likely behind a series of hacking attacks that targeted the United States and stole data from more than 100 companies.
That set off a war of words between Washington and Beijing.
Representative Dutch Ruppersberger, Democrat of Maryland, said last month that U.S. companies had suffered estimated losses in 2012 of more than $300 billion due to the theft of trade secrets, much of it the result of Chinese hacking.
China says the accusations lack proof and that it is also a victim of hacking attacks, more than half of which originate from the United States.
Hong Lei, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, called the survey a ''completely irresponsible action.''
''We hope the relevant side doesn't politicize financial and trade problems, does not exaggerate the so-called issue of online leaks and does more conducive things for China and the United States,'' Mr. Hong told reporters Friday.
The survey by the chamber, commonly known as AmCham, was conducted among 325 members across China late last year, before the release of the Mandiant report.
Only 10 percent of companies in the survey said they would use China-based cloud computing services, with most citing security concerns. Blocked Internet searches in China had impeded business for 62 percent of respondents.
U.S. officials have pressed China to address Internet attacks and cyberspying against U.S. companies. President Barack Obama raised hacking concerns in a phone call with President Xi Jinping of China earlier in March.
A recent assessment by U.S. intelligence leaders said that for the first time, cyberattacks and cyberespionage had supplanted terrorism as the top threat.
Most companies in the AmCham survey expressed optimism about the business outlook in China, with many reporting higher profit margins for their China units. But companies gave lower expectations for future investment and cited rising labor costs as a top concern. Perceptions that China's investment environment is stagnating are increasing, according to the survey.
Member companies ''have not felt over the last four or five years that there have been commercially significant positive changes in the business environment or the investment environment,'' Christian Murck, president of AmCham China, told reporters.
''When you have an economy which is making a transition to a market economy, but which is not yet there, there is a feeling that if you are not moving forward with an indicated path of future policy that you are effectively moving backward,'' he said at a briefing on the survey.
The survey also cited a steep increase in concerns over the protection of intellectual property, like copyrights and trademarks, with 72 percent of respondents saying enforcement in China was ineffective or totally ineffective, an increase of 13 percentage points over last year.
Perceptions that technology transfer was increasingly a requirement for access to China's market also jumped 10 points to 37 percent, the chamber said, with higher rates of concern reported in the aerospace, automotive, chemical in information technology sectors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); CYBERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); CLOUD COMPUTING (68%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (54%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); C A DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



973 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Guest Workers at Crux of Deal on Immigration

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The nation's top business and labor groups were near agreement Friday on a guest worker program for low-skilled immigrants, closing in on a deal that would eliminate one of the last significant obstacles to a new proposal for a broad overhaul of immigration laws, officials involved in the talks said.
The progress in the talks, which stalled late last week, had members of a bipartisan group of eight senators that has been working on an immigration bill increasingly optimistic that they would be able to introduce comprehensive legislation in the Senate when Congress returns the second week of April. 
''We are very close, closer than we've ever been,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a member of the Senate group. ''We are very optimistic, but there are a few issues remaining.''
The intense talks, and the willingness of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- two groups that have often found themselves deeply divided over the immigration debate -- to try to hammer out an agreement, was an indication of how much the climate has changed on overhauling the nation's immigration laws.
When President George W. Bush pushed to revamp immigration laws in 2007, the inability of business and labor to agree on a plan for temporary guest workers was among the main reasons that effort failed. But now the two groups have weathered leaks to the news media and other setbacks in a sign of how serious both Democrats and Republicans are about getting a bill on President Obama's desk by the end of the year.
Some involved in the negotiations remained hopeful that a deal would be reached by the weekend, but the Congressional recess, along with the Good Friday observance, made it difficult to lock all the moving pieces in place, those close to the talks said. And, while the members of the bipartisan group were optimistic, aides cautioned that no deal would be final until all the senators had signed off on every piece of the legislation.
The Chamber of Commerce and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main federation of labor unions, have been in discussions parallel to those of the Senate group, and have already reached a tentative agreement about the size and scope of a temporary guest worker program, which would grant up to 200,000 new visas annually for low-skilled workers. The labor-business talks came close to breaking down last Friday, on the eve of a two-week Congressional recess, over the issue of what the pay levels should be for low-skilled immigrants -- often employed at restaurants and hotels or on construction projects -- who could be brought in when employers said they faced labor shortages.
One of the last sticking points in the business-labor negotiations has been the specific type of jobs that would be excluded from the program. The nation's construction unions, officials in the talks said, have persuaded the negotiators to exclude certain higher-skilled jobs, including crane operators and electricians, from the guest worker program.
Eliseo Medina, the secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union and one of labor's most influential voices on immigration issues, said, ''We may be very close to a point where the senators will have an announcement soon.''
The tentative agreement seems to satisfy both groups: The business community is likely to see a number of visas that it considers adequate, while the agreement on wages is likely to please labor because it is not expected to affect the labor market adversely.
''The labor movement has been united in making sure aspiring Americans get a road map to citizenship and that any future flow program doesn't reduce wages for any local workers,'' said Tom Snyder, manager of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Citizenship Now campaign. ''And we will succeed on both fronts because politicians have heard immigrant communities loud and clear: citizenship now.''
Still, Randy Johnson, the senior vice president for labor, immigration, and employee benefits at the Chamber of Commerce, cautioned that any official agreement would come from the bipartisan Senate group.
''We advise senators on the Hill how to write the bill, and they decide on what bill would make sound legislation,'' he said.
According to participants in the conversations, after the business-labor talks came close to breaking down last week, some union officials pressed the labor negotiators to show more flexibility to avoid losing momentum over the guest worker issue. At the same time, some business leaders and Republican lawmakers pressed the Chamber to be more flexible on the guest worker issue so as not to derail the overall immigration overhaul.
Business and labor reached agreement in recent days on the contentious issue of how many guest workers would be admitted each year, several officials said. They said the number would start at 20,000 visas a year and could grow to a maximum of 200,000 annually.
''There is a formula that will allow it to grow and shrink according to economic needs,'' said Tamar Jacoby, the president of ImmigrationWorks, a group that represents small businesses on immigration matters.
She said the formula agreed to was not flexible enough to meet the needs of specific industries in specific places.
The number of guest workers allowed in would increase as the nation's unemployment rate fell and the number of job openings increased. A federal commission would also assess the need for guest workers, with an eye to shortages in specific industries and communities.
In the negotiations, business vigorously objected to labor's push to have employers pay guest workers more than they pay local workers -- an idea labor pushed to encourage employers to increase wages and to discourage them from bringing in guest workers.
To settle that dispute, officials said, the two sides agreed that guest workers would be paid the prevailing industry wage previously used in the guest worker program. These officials said that employers who faced a labor shortage even after the national guest worker quota was filled could request a ''safety valve'' exemption to bring in workers, but with additional administrative hurdles and at a higher wage rate than the prevailing wage.
''Business and labor leaders both agree that we need a system that responds to the needs of our economy, and we are now in a position where they're both coming together around key reforms that will fix the broken immigration system and move our economy forward,'' said John Feinblatt, the chief policy adviser to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and the chairman of the Partnership for a New American Economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EASTER SEASON (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



974 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Rental Investment May Seem Safer Than It Really Is

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Investing in a tangible asset like real estate may seem to offer a greater sense of control. You can walk through a house, after all, which somehow feels safer than subjecting your savings to the whims of the stock market.
The idea of buying a house and renting it out may seem especially attractive now, with home prices still reasonable, though rising, in many places, and interest rates at levels practically begging you to borrow. And if you're thinking about retirement, the income can serve as an inflation-adjusted annuity of sorts, since rents are likely to rise over time.
But our perceptions can be deceiving. ''There is a lot of idiosyncratic risk associated with rental income,'' said Christopher J. Mayer, professor of real estate, finance and economics at Columbia Business School. ''That is the word that economists use for when a lot of things can go wrong, even if on average they don't go wrong very often.'' 
Tom and Ana Vogel, a retired couple in their early 70s, are seasoned landlords. So they're aware of the risks, having dealt with problematic tenants in the past. Still, with a sizable piece of their retirement savings tied up in certificates of deposit earning less than 1 percent, they thought they could do better by buying a house and renting it out. They recently bought a five-bedroom house in their hometown, Germantown, Md., for $350,000, and they expected about a 6 percent return on their investment, as well as some tax benefits.
''It is high risk, you just have to be careful,'' said Mr. Vogel, who worked as a geodesist and information technology manager for what was the Defense Mapping Agency. ''You have no control over the stock market,'' he added, explaining that they didn't have the stomach for the volatility after losing half of the $100,000 they had invested in mutual funds during the market downturn in 2000.
With a pension accounting for half of their retirement income, the couple may have more room for error than other retirees. They also paid for the property in cash -- the C.D. money covered half, and they used a home equity loan on their primary home to cover the remainder.
If you're thinking about testing these waters, you can expect to compete with cash buyers like the Vogels -- they represented 32.3 percent of home sales in February, according to the Campbell/Inside Mortgage Finance HousingPulse Tracking Survey. But a lot of those investors have much deeper pockets. In certain spots across the Sunbelt, in particular, the homeowner next door may actually be a faceless private equity firm. The Blackstone Group and other Wall Street investors are gobbling up properties in places like the Tampa Bay area of Florida by the thousands. And their exit strategy could affect yours.
Jack McCabe, a real estate consultant in Deerfield Beach, Fla., said he had never seen large investors purchase so many homes in one fell swoop, giving them such great sway over pricing in the market. ''A lot of the price increase is not due to a market that is getting healthy, but is due to the influx of hedge funds, and a high percentage of homes are selling at artificially inflated values,'' Mr. McCabe said.
Should you decide to follow the Vogels' lead, there are a variety of calculations you should make, and concerns and questions you should have ahead of time, several of which are sketched out below.
DO I NEED FINANCING? Taking out a mortgage obviously increases your financial risk, even if you believe there is a healthy spread between what you can charge in rent and what you owe on the mortgage (and other expenses). In fact, what you're really doing is borrowing to expand the size of your investment portfolio, explained Professor Mayer, which can be particularly risky for retirees who are no longer working. ''They can turn their $500,000 portfolio into $600,000 by borrowing, but if you told them you were going to borrow money to buy a REIT, people would say, 'Gee, that's really risky,' '' he said. ''Well, then why is it less risky to do that with a rental property?''
We don't have to look back too far to remember what can happen if home values fall. ''If stuff goes down in value, that leaves you much more exposed,'' Professor Mayer said. ''Borrowing money to earn a higher return involves risk.''
CAN I GET A MORTGAGE? Not only is getting a mortgage on an investment property more difficult than getting a loan on your primary home, it also tends to be more expensive. Mortgages on investment properties tend to carry slightly higher interest rates -- anywhere from 0.25 of a percentage point to a full percentage point -- and may require higher down payments, according to Keith Gumbinger of HSH.com, a mortgage data firm. ''Things can also get more complicated where the income from the property is needed to support the loan,'' he added. ''The purchaser may need to provide a rental history for the property, if any exists, or they may need to have a rental market analysis conducted.''
AM I DIVERSIFIED ENOUGH? If you have a $600,000 portfolio, putting $300,000 into one asset is a highly concentrated bet. ''People tend to mentally compartmentalize their investments, but really, you should be looking at them together,'' Professor Mayer added.
It may also be hard to tap any equity locked up in the property. Refinancing that involves taking cash out is hard to obtain, and home equity loans or lines of credit are hard to come by on investment properties, Mr. Gumbinger said.
VACANCY OR DISASTER PLANS There are the traditional risks that come with being a landlord, like a prolonged vacancy, the possibility that the water heater will die right after you've installed a new roof, or that the tenants will lose their jobs or fail to pay for some other reason, which could lead to eviction. But several experts also said not to discount even more remote possibilities. If your property was in an area ravaged by Hurricane Sandy, for instance, could you financially withstand several months of no rental income and the cost of repairs that might not be covered by homeowner's insurance (and how much insurance is enough, and at what cost)?
''You need to have a sizable reserve fund set aside to pay for expenses, whether it's to cover the mortgage for a stretch when the property is sitting vacant or to make repairs, which novice landlords tend to underestimate,'' said Kenneth J. Eaton, a financial planner in Overland Park, Kan.
CAN I MANAGE IT MYSELF? Buying a rental property isn't solely a financial decision. You need to be prepared to screen tenants, run credit checks and get the water heater repaired at a moment's notice. That means you're going to need to establish relationships with a variety of service people, or, if you have the time and ability, do it yourself. So be honest about how big of a commitment owning a house will really be.
''I have never had pipes burst at a convenient time -- they almost also go out in the middle of the night when you are out of town,'' said Alan Moore, a financial planner in Milwaukee who has owned rental properties and counseled clients about the pros and cons of buying investment properties.
You can outsource the job to a property manager, but they can collect anywhere from 4 to 10 percent of the annual rent, depending on where you live and a variety of other factors.
THE TAX IMPLICATIONS Rental income is taxed at ordinary income rates, but experts say you can often post a tax loss while still generating a profit. That's because you can deduct the depreciation of the rental -- but not the underlying land -- to account for wear and tear (the cost of improvements, closing costs and the cost of appliances are all depreciable, too). In most cases, the building is depreciated over 27.5 years. So if the actual structure is worth $200,000, you can deduct about $7,200 a year. Coupled with operating expenses, that is often enough to wipe out any profit on paper.
You're allowed to write off up to $25,000 of losses against any type of income, as long as you own at least 10 percent of the rental property and have substantial involvement in managing the rental (if you don't own 10 percent, the rules get more complicated), said Russell D. Francis, a certified public account and financial planner in Beaverton, Ore. But that $25,000 benefit begins to phase out if you have adjusted gross income of $100,000 and it disappears for people with adjusted gross income of $150,000 or more.
The government reclaims part of your savings eventually. The depreciation is recaptured when you sell the property (on which you'll also pay taxes on capital gains). You have to pay a flat 25 percent rate on the amount you depreciated, Mr. Francis said.
You can put off paying capital gains if you exchange your property for another one -- in something known as a 1031 exchange -- or you can keep the house until you die. Since your heirs will inherit the property at the current market value, they will not have to pay a tax on the gains.
It's also possible to own real property inside an individual retirement account, which my colleague Paul Sullivan wrote about last year, and which is subject to an entirely separate set of rules and regulations.
HONESTY ABOUT COSTS You may be tempted to view this sort of investment differently, meaning you may be more likely to continually dip into your personal assets to cover costs. ''Many small-business people wipe themselves out because as their business declines, they dip into their personal assets to keep things going,'' said Daniel B. Moisand, a financial planner in Melbourne, Fla. ''It is a fairly natural reaction because often things look like they are about to turn around. Unless you establish limits, you could find yourself doing the same at some point. If you do not believe your properties are subject to such risk, you shouldn't buy properties.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A house in Germantown, Md., bought by Tomand Ana Vogel as a rental property. (B1)
 Tom and Ana Vogel of Germantown, Md., inside the house they plan to rent to supplement their retirement income. Experts say such investments can be troublesome if emergency repairs are needed in the middle of the night, tenants fail to pay their rent or the housing market crashes again. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (79%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (64%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



975 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: In Pyongyang, Bluster, Fakery And Real Risks

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and DAVID E. SANGER; Choe Sang-Hun reported from Seoul, South Korea, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- This week, North Korea's young leader, Kim Jung-un, ordered his underlings to prepare for a missile attack on the United States. He appeared at a command center in front of a wall map with the bold, unlikely title, ''Plans to Attack the Mainland U.S.'' Earlier in the month, his generals boasted of developing a ''Korean-style'' nuclear warhead that could be fitted atop a long-range missile.
But the missile systems that figure in Mr. Kim's blitz of threats and orders do not yet have the range to approach American shores. There is no evidence his nuclear weapons can be shrunk to fit atop a missile. And a prominent photograph showing Mr. Kim's military making a Normandy-style beach landing appears to have been manufactured, raising questions about whether his forces could possibly repeat the feat his grandfather pulled off in 1950, ordering a ground attack to open the Korean War.
On top of all that, most countries on the verge of a major military assault do not broadcast their battle plans to the world. 
''You would expect such a military order to be issued in secret,'' said Kim Min-seok, spokesman of the South Korean Defense Ministry. ''We believe that by revealing it to the media and publicizing it to the world, North Korea is playing psychology.''
In fact, it is the abilities that Mr. Kim is not showing off that have the Obama administration most worried. The cyberattacks on South Korea's banking system and television broadcasters two weeks ago were surprisingly successful, as was the torpedo attack three years ago this week on the Cheonan, a naval corvette, that killed 46 South Korean sailors. The North has never acknowledged involvement in either -- though the South believes it was responsible for both and so do American experts.
''We're convinced this is about Kim solidifying his place with his own people and his own military, who still don't know him,'' one senior administration official said Friday. He added, ''We're worried about what he's going to do next, but we're not worried about what he seems to be threatening to do next.''
The cyberattacks and torpedo attack have something in common: Unlike the missile attacks and beach landings that Mr. Kim seems to be suggesting are imminent, they are hard to trace to North Korea, at least immediately. As a result, they are hard to retaliate against, and in fact the South never struck back militarily for the sinking of the Cheonan, even after a commission of inquiry, with experts from outside South Korea, concluded it was the work of a submarine-launched torpedo.
To North Korea experts in Washington and Seoul, there is something familiar in the country's threats to ''keep the White House in the cross hairs of our long-range missiles.'' Such threat of armed brinkmanship -- the catchphrase in the 1990s was that Seoul would become a ''sea of fire,'' a term recently revived by North Korea's news agencies -- has in the past drawn its adversaries to the bargaining table with economic concessions. But at the same time, the tensions with the outside world provide the government with opportunities to elevate its leader's status among his people -- which might be more important to a young, untested leader than it was to his father and grandfather.
According to the view that North Korea's propaganda machine pounds into its citizens' minds, the North is a tiny nation besieged by hostile outside forces, one that survived despite decades of sanctions and can finally stand up to both its longtime Chinese ally and American enemy -- all thanks to the strong ''military-first'' leadership of the Kim family and the country's nuclear arsenal.
In such a setting, Mr. Kim's trip to a border island on a wooden boat -- it almost seemed designed to create a ''Washington crossing the Delaware'' motif -- is proof of his ''daring and pluck,'' as the country's main party newspaper, Rodong, explained. Rodong also declared about North Korea's nuclear weapons: ''Let the American imperialists and their followers know! We are not a pushover like Iraq or Libya.'' The first, famously, had no nuclear weapons; the second gave up its nascent nuclear program in late 2003, a move North Korea describes as Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's greatest mistake.
In the propaganda world that the three generations of the Kim dynasty has created, Mr. Kim is ''a great iron-willed general admired by all of his people, including real generals who have actually served in the military,'' said Lee Sung-yoon, North Korea specialist at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. ''For the Kim III, fantasy is reality.''
Keeping the fantasy up has required a lot of work in the past month, with many visits to military units on both of the country's coasts, and a lot of conferences at midnight with generals.
Yet in each of these scenes, North Korea's propagandists sometimes made Mr. Kim look as much a clumsy actor as a new leader of one of the world's most belligerent governments.
For one, North Korean state-run media on March 12 released a photo showing Mr. Kim arriving at an island within the gun range of South Korean marines and quoted him as threatening to ''cut the windpipes of the enemies.'' But it strained credibility that he traveled to a region he called a powder keg on a small unarmed wooden boat, as shown in the photo.
On Tuesday, North Korea released a photo showing Mr. Kim watching hovercrafts storm a snow-covered beach in eastern North Korea. But it did not take long for journalists and analysts to conclude that the picture was clumsily doctored to add more amphibious landing vehicles and make the drill look far more imposing than it really was.
Then on Friday, photos released by the North's state media, which also showed signs of digital manipulation, featured Mr. Kim huddling with his top generals during a midnight meeting to approve ''plans to strike the mainland U.S.'' A military chart behind them showed a series of lines shooting out of North Korea and hitting major cities in the United States, including those on the East Coast. Even if the North Koreans had such missiles -- most analysts doubt it does -- would they really intend to launch them at the United States in what would be a suicidal action for the Pyongyang government?
''We're all trying to put him on the couch,'' said Jonathan D. Pollack, a North Korea expert at the Brookings Institution. ''A year ago the U.S. and the Chinese saw at least the possibility that you could do business with him. But he has steadily reverted to form,'' adopting the approach of his father and grandfather in using the perception of an external threat to solidify support at home.
On Saturday those threats were South Korea and ''the Americans and their puppets,'' a statement from the North said. The two Koreas ''were back to a state of war,'' it said, and the North's foes ''should know that everything is different under our peerless general and dear Marshal Kim Jong-un.'' While many fear that Mr. Kim's rhetoric is building up toward some action, Mr. Pollack held out the hope that the threats could abate as United States and South Korean military exercises, which infuriate the North, wind up at the end of April.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: University students were among thousands of North Koreans who rallied against the United States in Pyongyang on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON CHOL JIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, met with military leaders in Pyongyang on Friday. Some of the photos of military preparedness released by the North appear to be digitally manipulated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY) (A8) MAPS: Estimated Range of North Korean Missiles: Missiles currently in North Korean arsenal (Source: Federation of American Scientists) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); CYBERCRIME (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



976 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Obama Pushes Plan to Build Roads and Bridges

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JOHN SCHWARTZ; Peter Baker reported from Miami, and John Schwartz from New York.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- President Obama came to the congested ocean port here on Friday to promote his plans to rebuild the nation's ''raggedy'' roads, bridges, schools and other infrastructure with a marriage of public and private investment.
At the end of a week absorbed by social issues like gun control and gay rights, the president returned to the economic challenges he has called his top priorities with a set of proposals to generate money for construction projects. 
''What are we waiting for?'' Mr. Obama asked, surrounded by massive cranes and cargo containers. ''There's work to be done. There are workers who are ready to do it. Let's prove to the world that there's no better place to do business than right here in the United States of America, and let's get started rebuilding America.''
Expanding on ideas from his first term and this year's State of the Union address, Mr. Obama proposed a series of tax breaks and loans to stimulate private investment. Among other things, new ''America Fast Forward Bonds'' would help state and local governments borrow money for projects, while foreign pension and retirement funds would have a tax penalty eliminated so they could invest in infrastructure in the United States on a similar basis as American funds. Grant programs that were part of the president's stimulus program would be expanded by $4 billion.
Mr. Obama also promoted an infrastructure bank that would use $10 billion in public money to leverage private investment, a concept he has been pushing without success since 2011.
Republicans responded by saying they also wanted to upgrade American roads, bridges and other infrastructure, but only if it could be paid for. Speaker John A. Boehner's office distributed comments he made last month after Mr. Obama's State of the Union address.
''It's easy to go out there and be Santa Claus and talk about all the things you want to give away,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''But at some point, somebody has to pay the bill.''
Infrastructure has been one of Mr. Obama's favorite talking points because its appeal often crosses party lines. Both labor unions and corporations favor more spending on airports, highways and the like, and both Republican and Democrat lawmakers are eager for projects in their districts.
Ken Orski, the editor of Innovation NewsBriefs, a transportation newsletter, said the president's emphasis on private investment was important. ''We need more of that kind of involvement, rather than exclusive emphasis on public financing,'' he said.
In some ways, expanding private investment in such projects is a return to tradition, said Mr. Orski, a transportation official under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. Going back to the 19th century, canals and toll roads were financed with private money, he noted. But the great flow of government spending during the New Deal and the creation of the Interstate highway system shifted assumptions.
So while some industries like freight rail, telecommunications and aviation have depended largely on private investment, other infrastructure financing has come largely from government sources. Now that sensibility is shifting again, with more private money in the past 20 years.
''Many people feel that the role of private capital in infrastructure has been de-emphasized too much and that more balance should be restored to the equation,'' Mr. Orski said.
The latest national report card issued by the American Society of Civil Engineers this month on the state of bridges, roads, power grids, rail networks and other systems showed that the country's grade had actually risen for the first time -- but to a D-plus from a D. The group credited an increase of private investment and spending from Mr. Obama's stimulus program.
PortMiami is in the midst of $2 billion in improvements, including a tunnel directly linking its facilities with the Interstate highway system. Workers are also dredging to provide access to larger vessels, reconnecting the port with the nation's rail system, upgrading its cranes and strengthening its bulkheads. Some of the cost has been financed with federal loans.
''The Port of Miami is a tremendous example of how infrastructure investment can lead to economic prosperity,'' said Gregory E. DiLoreto, president of the engineers' society.
On Thursday, Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, chided Mr. Obama during a conference call with reporters for following the lead of states like Florida.
''We're certainly glad President Obama's coming to the Port of Miami tomorrow,'' Mr. Scott said, ''but he's late to the party on Florida port investments.'' He said his administration had fronted part of the federal cost of the PortMiami project when Washington dawdled. ''We could not wait for the federal government to come to the table with their share of the project,'' he said

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama promoted his proposal on Friday at PortMiami, which is in the midst of $2 billion in improvements. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); GUN CONTROL (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (56%); LGBT RIGHTS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



977 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Strengthening the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Let's face it: the International Monetary Fund is not widely loved. It has forced countries in financial distress to adopt counterproductive austerity policies, and it failed to anticipate the financial crisis. But in recent years the I.M.F. has helped stabilize the global economy, most recently by providing loans to troubled European countries like Greece and Ireland. That is why Congress needs to strengthen its governance and bolster its resources by ratifying reforms to the organization that were agreed to in 2010 by its 188 member countries. 
The changes, which were primarily devised by the Obama administration, would double, to about $755 billion, the fund's capital, which has fallen sharply as a percentage of the global economy in the last decade. Another measure would give developing countries a bigger say in the fund's management, to reflect their recent growth. The reforms would do all this without increasing America's financial commitment to the organization and while preserving Washington's power to veto any big changes to how it operates.
Most of the world's countries have endorsed the changes, as have dozens of economists and former American officials representing both parties. But Congress, which must pass legislation before the measures can be implemented, has not even considered them. The administration is partly to blame. It did not send the proposals to Congress until this month, when it asked that they be included in the continuing resolution meant to forestall a government shutdown. Senate Democrats did not include them because they feared that House Republicans would use the proposed reforms to hold up the entire bill. Some Republicans distrust international organizations in general, and some believe that the I.M.F. does not need more money.
The reality is that the I.M.F. is the world's primary defense against global financial disasters. Increasing the fund's resources will ensure that it can respond quickly to another wave of turmoil in Europe or elsewhere that would inevitably hurt the American economy. Enacting these reforms is also important because doing so will signal to developing countries like Brazil and India that the United States wants them to play a bigger role on the global stage. That has been a priority for Republican and Democratic administrations alike.
These changes are in America's interest. The administration needs to make a strong public case for why they are important, and Republican lawmakers need to look beyond their aversion to international entanglements and vote for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); VETO (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (88%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



978 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: A Prescription for Sick Workers

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn has finally agreed to require businesses to provide paid sick leave for as many as one million workers. This is good news, although it will take at least a year for most employees to enjoy a basic benefit widely available elsewhere. 
The bill that Ms. Quinn has endorsed, and that is now moving to the City Council for approval, contains a trigger inserted at her insistence that can delay the sick leave requirement if the city's economy erodes. The bill uses a financial index from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to determine if the economy is strong enough for covered businesses to give employees paid sick leave. Proponents of her compromise suggest that only a deep recession would actually spark a delay in implementing the new law.
If the New York economy continues at its present level, companies with 20 or more workers will be required as of April 1, 2014, to provide at least five paid sick leave days a year. Eventually, the law would cover all companies with at least 15 employees and make it illegal to fire any worker who takes up to five sick days, paid or unpaid.
Ms. Quinn, a candidate for mayor, had blocked serious discussion on this issue for too long. She says she had simply been trying to balance the needs of employees with protections for small businesses. Now she promises to fight to make this benefit work. One key change for the better is that the new bill drops extra paperwork, inspections and steep fines that troubled many business owners.
Mayor Michael Bloomberg has already sent word that he will veto the compromise as a ''shortsighted'' measure that will make the city less competitive for businesses. It is his view that is now shortsighted; even city business interests have agreed that they can live with this measure. Fortunately, there are enough supporters in the City Council to override the mayor's veto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); VETO (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



979 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: With Policy Moves, Quinn Defuses de Blasio's Attacks in Race for Mayor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
He has hammered her over the surging level of fines against small businesses, chided her for not demanding greater oversight of New York's police and denounced her for failing to support a bill providing paid time off for sick workers.
At times, the mayoral campaign of Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, has seemed like a crusade to shame Christine C. Quinn, a rival in the Democratic primary for mayor, into adopting the most cherished positions of their party's liberal wing. 
His problem: She is starting to do it.
The limitations of Mr. de Blasio's strategy were laid bare on Friday when Ms. Quinn, the City Council speaker, struck a compromise with liberal advocates and unions to pass the paid sick-leave legislation she had long blocked. Advocates called the agreement imperfect, but still showed up to applaud her at a celebratory news conference.
It was the latest episode in which Ms. Quinn's deal-making acumen deprived Mr. de Blasio of a potent line of attack, showcasing the power that her incumbency as speaker gives her to outmaneuver opponents in the race for mayor.
Over the past several weeks, amid criticism from Mr. de Blasio, Ms. Quinn has introduced legislation to create a police inspector general and to reduce fines levied on street vendors, seemingly timing her announcements for maximum political effect: her office unveiled the street vendor bill minutes before Mr. de Blasio was to assail her at a news conference at City Hall on the same subject.
As effective as Ms. Quinn's tactics can be, she runs the risk of appearing more pragmatic than principled, leading some critics to question what, precisely, she stands for.
She had long resisted paid sick-leave legislation, saying that in a tough economy, the requirement would be too burdensome for businesses. But late Thursday, without much warning, she accepted a deal that would require thousands of businesses to provide the benefit, covering more than 800,000 of the 1.3 million New Yorkers who do not currently have it.
As he castigated Ms. Quinn on Friday for not pursuing a more comprehensive bill that would cover more workers, Mr. de Blasio suggested her recent embrace of liberal issues had been belated and cynical.
''That's not leadership,'' the public advocate said at a news conference. ''That's acquiescence to public pressure.''
In a later interview, Mr. de Blasio predicted that Democratic primary voters would see through Ms. Quinn's reactive approach and favor a candidate more in tune with its liberal wing.
''I'm talking about the values of Democratic voters in New York City,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''If the speaker constantly has to reach for that, as opposed to being naturally in that position, it's a problem for her.''
At City Hall on Friday, Ms. Quinn played down any lingering doubts about the sick-leave compromise, saying she had secured a deal where ''all sides ended up having a voice.'' Echoing a theme of her campaign, she described it as an example of ''what effective policy making is all about.''
The Quinn campaign moved quickly to portray her as an inclusive champion of the middle class, sending a message to supporters in which Ms. Quinn pledged, ''I will never stop bringing New Yorkers together.''
But people with knowledge of the negotiations over the sick-leave bill said Ms. Quinn only reluctantly joined the discussions, hours after discovering that a dozen council members had signed an unusual petition that would seek to force a vote on the measure despite her opposition.
Ms. Quinn, seeking to prevent the imminent filing of the petition, said she would discuss a deal. But she at first insisted on a broad exemption for small businesses that employ thousands of workers. Frustrated by the speaker's position, advocates issued an ultimatum: Unless Ms. Quinn agreed to apply the requirement to businesses with as few as 20 workers, the talks would be off.
On Friday, as they stood with the speaker to celebrate the agreement, advocates still conveyed that Ms. Quinn had played a grudging role in the deal.
''We hit her pretty hard on this, and she got pushed to the point where she needed to negotiate,'' said Javier H. Valdes, an executive director of Make the Road, a group involved in the negotiations. ''When she did see that writing on the wall, she took a leadership role in finalizing it.''
The feminist writer Gloria Steinem, who had said she would withhold her endorsement of Ms. Quinn if she did not allow a vote on the paid sick-leave measure, thanked the speaker for the compromise. But in a statement, Ms. Steinem pointedly referred to ''the 1 percent'' that had pressured leaders like Ms. Quinn to block action on the issue.
One of the city's most powerful unions, 1199, registered a starker form of disapproval, withholding its support for the compromise this week when advocates were asked to endorse it, according to people involved in negotiations.
The murmurs of discontent on Friday provided some solace to Mr. de Blasio, who insisted the paid sick-leave question ''remains absolutely alive in the debate about the future of our city.''
Mr. de Blasio said he would join the Rev. Al Sharpton at a weekend rally to call for a more stringent sick-leave measure in New York, and he took pains to explain why advocates were now willing to stand by Ms. Quinn's side. ''As the saying goes,'' Mr. de Blasio said, ''when a hungry man is offered half a loaf, he will take it.''
Still, hours after Ms. Quinn's boisterous news conference had ended on the steps of City Hall, it was clear that the day's political momentum was with her. Shortly after she finished, Mr. de Blasio delivered his remarks, standing behind a spare lectern, all alone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When the City Council speaker, Christine Quinn, announced the deal on paid sick leave, she was surrounded by backers of the bill. Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, delivered his remarks alone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



980 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Sick-Pay Plan Called Blessing And a Burden

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The compromise reached on a sick-leave law for workers in New York City drew cheers on Friday from employees who have feared that catching a cold could cost them their jobs. But some employers complained that it would unfairly load yet another expense onto their shoulders.
The agreement would eventually require most businesses with at least 20 employees to provide up to five days a year off with pay for illness. It also calls for even the smallest businesses, like the bodegas found on nearly every block, to let workers take days off without pay but without jeopardizing their jobs when they are too sick to work. 
Advocates for low-wage workers estimated that the plan would provide sick leave to more than 800,000 workers who do not now have it, while adding just 18 cents an hour in labor costs, on average, for each of them.
Employers like Paul Seres said the burden would be more significant than that.
Mr. Seres, a partner in a restaurant and lounge on the Lower East Side, estimated that paying his 50 employees when they are sick could cost up to as much as $16,000 a year. He assumed that his workers would take all of the days allowed, whether they were really ill or not, and that he would not be able to pass the cost on to his customers.
''When you serve food, every single penny counts,'' said Mr. Seres, who operates Dinner on Ludlow, on Delancey Street.
The proposed law would cover part-time workers, as well as waiters and others who depend on tips. All workers would accrue one hour of sick pay for every 30 hours they work but would not be able to use it until they had been on the job for four months.
The agreement reached on Thursday calls for the law to apply to businesses with 20 or more employees starting in one year. In October 2015, the threshold would be lowered to 15 employees.
Manufacturing companies, which employ about 122,000 workers in the city, were excluded from the legislation because their industry was considered too fragile and because Connecticut excluded them from its sick-pay law, according to Christine C. Quinn, the speaker of the City Council.
Mr. Seres, who lobbied against the legislation, called the compromise ''the best we could have achieved.'' But he said he still hoped that a state law superseding the local one could be passed before the rules took effect.
''If it's good enough for New York City, why wouldn't it be good enough for other municipalities like Buffalo or Rochester?'' Mr. Seres asked.
He said he hoped legislators in Albany would require that workers also contribute to a pool of money for sick pay that would be administered by the State Labor Department, as unemployment insurance is.
Workers like Luis Gonzalez who have gone to work while ill were relieved to hear that they might soon spend a day sick in bed without worrying about termination.
Mr. Gonzalez, a construction worker who lives in Queens, said he contracted the flu this winter but never missed a day of tearing down brick walls out of fear he might be fired.
''Many people in my community have suffered,'' he said through an interpreter. ''Either they cannot afford to take a day off without pay or they are moms who can't stay at home to take care of their sick children.''
Lacking any allowance for illness, Mr. Gonzalez is in the same situation as about three of every five low-wage workers in the city, said Nancy Rankin, vice president for policy research and advocacy at the Community Service Society. In contrast, she said, fewer than one in five workers in the top quartile of wage earners in the city lacks paid sick leave.
Business groups, including the influential Partnership for New York City, opposed the sick-leave law until late this week, arguing that it would hurt small businesses and make the city less competitive. But some operators of small businesses said they already provided paid time off to sick employees and believed that all companies should do so.
Esmeralda Valencia, who runs Esmeralda's, an Ecuadorean seafood restaurant in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, said she did not want any of her 10 employees to feel that they had to work if they were sick, especially if they might infect customers or fellow workers.
Time off for illness is a benefit that all workers deserve, whether their employers are large or very small, Ms. Valencia said.
''Our workers are not a machine; they are human beings,'' she said. ''They have the right to get sick at any moment.''
By Friday, when the Council appeared to have the votes to override an expected veto of the bill by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, even business leaders and Chamber of Commerce officials from Brooklyn and Queens who showed up agreed with Ms. Valencia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Seres, at left, a partner in Dinner on Ludlow, said the proposed New York City law requiring many employers to provide paid sick days would cost his restaurant up to $16,000 each year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); LOBBYING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



981 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: On Space Coast, Signs of Comeback After End of an Era

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MELBOURNE, Fla. -- The day after the shuttle Atlantis landed for the last time at the Kennedy Space Center on July 21, 2011, Angel Telles, a man with three master's degrees, scooped up his white Mission 101 coffee mug and drove away from NASA after 24 years on the job there. The shuttle era had ended, and with it the jobs of 8,000 NASA and civilian workers who found themselves unemployed in the midst of a harsh economic downturn and a crush of home foreclosures.
So great was the blow to the state and NASA's traditional space program that it put politicians, including presidential candidates, on the defensive on the campaign trail.
''I mean, it was happening before our very eyeballs,'' said Mr. Telles, 50, whose most recent job at NASA was developing requirements for new vehicles, as he recalled his last day at the space center. ''This is happening to me? Really? You are in shock.'' 
''But then,'' he added, ''you say, 'I am moving on.' ''
He did, and finally, this month, Mr. Telles landed a well-paying engineering job with the Harris Corporation, an international telecommunications equipment company. His hiring is the latest sign that nearly two years after Brevard County was left staggering from the one-two punch of the downturn and the demise of the shuttle program, the Space Coast, while still struggling, has defied the bleak predictions.
Private employers on the Space Coast, which includes Cocoa Beach and Merritt Island, have created more than 4,000 jobs since 2010 and have added 1,000 more this year, including jobs in aerospace, aviation, engineering and other high-technology sectors. Companies like Embraer, which makes jets, Northrop Grumman and Rocket Crafters were among those that moved here or expanded. Small businesses are also opening at a faster clip. Housing prices are rising, and the pace of foreclosures is slowing in some areas.
The linchpin in Brevard's recovery was a plan to diversify beyond aerospace while maintaining its astronaut aura and capitalizing on its coveted labor force: well-trained, highly educated workers with security clearance who have demonstrated the ability to launch manned spacecraft into orbit.
''Everyone said we were going to get hit by a Category 5 storm -- board up and get ready,'' said Robin Fisher, a Brevard County commissioner from Titusville, which has been slower to recover than the rest of the county. ''After the national program shut down, there were a lot of reasons to fail. But we didn't.''
The future after Atlantis was in many ways guided by the lessons of Apollo. More than four decades ago, this county was built on the gold rush that resulted from the Apollo program, back when astronauts were household names and Cocoa Beach was familiar to television viewers as the home of ''I Dream of Jeannie.'' But in 1972, President Richard M. Nixon shut down the program, decimating the communities surrounding the Kennedy Space Center.
An estimated 18,000 jobs were lost in 18 months. Some residents walked away from their houses.
''The cancellation of Apollo was much more abrupt, and it was a lot bigger,'' said Dale Ketcham, who is in charge of strategic alliances for Space Florida, the state's port authority for space and its economic development engine. He grew up in Cocoa Beach and was headed to college at that time. ''The economy was much less robust and diversified, so there really wasn't anything else to do.''
This time around, local and state officials had years to plan for the end of the shuttle program, which was announced by President George W. Bush in 2004, after the Columbia shuttle disintegrated on re-entry. A scaled-down program called Constellation was begun, but that was canceled by President Obama after it, too, became expensive.
Despite the setbacks, Brevard kept one important project: the building of Orion, a multipurpose deep-space capsule. It was the first time the Kennedy Space Center moved from launching a craft to assembling one.
A few months after the shuttle program closed, Boeing stepped in, announcing it would establish a headquarters at the space center for its new spaceship program to fly astronauts to and from the International Space Station. The program would create 550 jobs by 2015, a relatively small number, but one welcomed nonetheless by local and state officials.
The larger challenge was drafting a plan to diversify beyond the traditional parameters of government-run deep-space programs and finding a way to recoup the 8,000 lost jobs little by little.
But in the past three years, more companies have started to roll into Brevard. They have been enticed, in part, by government tax incentives sprinkled liberally across Florida to court business, a practice that has drawn some criticism.
''The problem in the past is that there was no plan of action,'' said Lynda Weatherman, the president of the Space Coast's Economic Development Commission. ''It's as much a psychological promotion story as an economic one. It said there is a Chapter 2 in our lives. Part of the reason we got into this situation is because all we did was launch.''
But, she cautioned, ''We are not out of the woods yet.''
Inside a state-of-the-art hangar at the Melbourne Airport, Embraer's sleek executive 10-seater jets are being assembled, outfitted and painted. Embraer, a Brazilian company that was voted a top firm to work for in the state by Florida Trend magazine, was courted by 20 states. It moved to Melbourne, a turning point for the area, and opened in February 2011.
One reason Embraer chose Melbourne was that it wanted the first chance at hiring laid-off shuttle workers. Forty of the employees working on its jets are former NASA contractors. Others came from an Air Force base nearby. Embraer recently announced it is building an engineering center here, too.
''We knew there would be very qualified people that would be valuable to us,'' said Gary Spulak, the president of Embraer Aircraft Holdings. He added that many of the workers already had experience with aircraft like Cessna, Piper and Gulfstream: ''They were all using processes we hold in high regard.''
The area has also seen an infusion of companies involved in suborbital spaceflight, like Rocket Crafters and Xcor Aerospace. Last month, Northrup said it planned to add 920 jobs to its aviation operation in the county.
Still, recovery is far from assured. The unemployment rate in Brevard was 8 percent in February, higher than Florida's average and the country's over all. About half of the laid-off shuttle workers have founds jobs here or somewhere else. The rest retired, moved away or were still looking for work, according to Lisa Rice, the president of Brevard Workforce, which helps them find jobs.
Severance packages will soon run out for some, raising new concerns. Underemployment is another worry. Disparities have become more pronounced; recovery has been swifter in the southern part of the county, where Melbourne is located. In Titusville, farther north, empty storefronts and houses sit forlorn. Yet there are subtle signs of recovery: An arts movement is budding, and the town's biggest mall is being redeveloped.
''The county has been split in two,'' Mr. Telles lamented.
He said he did what he could to market himself. He went back to school for an undergraduate degree in engineering. He learned new skills, including how to polish his résumé. But often, he said, employers saw only his degrees and former salary -- and blanched.
''They just said, 'Do I want to pay that guy this much money before he moves on to something else?' '' Mr. Telles said. On March 5, though, he started his new job at nearly the same salary he had at NASA.
''Things are improving,'' he said, ''and as time goes by, it will continue to improve.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Embraer, a Brazilian company, was courted by 20 states but chose Florida, hiring many laid-off NASA employees to assemble jets in Melbourne.
 A diner at a restaurant in Titusville, Fla., which has been slower to recover jobs and housing than the rest of Brevard County. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD LINSMIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); SPACECRAFT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); FORECLOSURE (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); COUNTIES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (51%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (51%); HOME PRICES (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: HARRIS CORP (68%); EMBRAER SA (65%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (84%)

TICKER: HRS (NYSE) (68%); ERJ (NYSE) (65%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (65%); NOC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (65%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (65%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013



982 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Applause in Unlikely Places: A Conductor Who Rewrites the Rules

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
During the ''Infernal Dance'' of Stravinsky's ''Firebird,'' which depicts the subjects of the ogre Kastchei spinning with such savagery that they drop in exhaustion, the music builds to vehement, searing chords. In his performance of the complete ''Firebird'' on Thursday night with the Los Angeles Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall, the second of two programs, Gustavo Dudamel drew such blazing colors, slashing attacks and sheer terror from the orchestra that at the climax of the dance some people in the hall broke into applause and shouted ''Bravo.'' This temporarily drowned out the transition that immediately follows: the powerful chords disperse to reveal mysterious, hushed sonorities.
The formal protocols of classical music concerts that can make audiences feel uptight should be tossed out. And to his immense credit, Mr. Dudamel is drawing newcomers into concert halls. So if some listeners on Thursday could not help expressing their excitement, why not?
For me, though, it was also a revealing moment. Like most ballet scores, ''The Firebird,'' based on a Russian folk legend, is episodic. Still, this 45-minute piece has an overall structure and should unfold inexorably. For all the intensity, imagination and excitement Mr. Dudamel, conducting from memory, brought to bear, the performance lacked some cohesion and depth. 
I liked that the dynamic 32-year-old Mr. Dudamel did not go for the obvious and simply pump up the piece with youthful energy. Quite the contrary, during long stretches he drew out the music, often taking slow tempos so as to convey the strangeness embedded in the score. But there were some oddly languid passages. ''The Firebird'' has seldom seemed so long.
It is exciting to hear this charismatic conductor taking risks and following a vision. Now in his fourth season as music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, he has galvanized the city and become for all conductors a model of community outreach and education. Not bad.
He has also fostered working relationships with living composers. This visit by the orchestra to New York will be remembered especially for Wednesday night's performance of John Adams's ambitious and powerful oratorio ''The Gospel According to the Other Mary,'' which tells the story of the Crucifixion from the perspective of Mary Magdalene, with a libretto compiled by the director Peter Sellars, drawn from the Hebrew Bible and Christian New Testament sources, with poems and texts by Dorothy Day, Louise Erdrich, Primo Levi and others woven in.
Mr. Dudamel and the Philharmonic gave the premiere of this work in a concert performance last spring at Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles. Early this month the piece was performed there in a semi-staged version directed by Mr. Sellars. That staging was presented on Wednesday for the work's New York premiere.
''The Gospel According to the Other Mary'' depicts the events of the Crucifixion by showing three siblings -- Mary Magdalene, Martha and Lazarus -- as both biblical and contemporary characters. This Mary Magdalene is a social activist who runs a center for unemployed women with Martha. When we meet them, they have been jailed for protesting on behalf of the poor. Martha is responsible and somber; Mary is searching and troubled.
In a video interview online Mr. Adams describes the challenge of writing this work, comparable in length to his operas. Since the premiere last year, he has made some trims. It remains a long piece: Act I lasts some 70 minutes; Act II about an hour. As a structure, the oratorio sometimes seems overextended, and the narrative thrust loses momentum.
Still, this is an extraordinary work, containing some of Mr. Adams's richest, most daring music. At this point in his career he has a masterly ability to write multi-textured scores where layers of music swirl and spin simultaneously, yet everything is audible. Though his language draws from recognizable inspirations, like big-band jazz, Bach, Copland, Ives, Ravel and more, his voice could not be more personal and fresh. I will not soon forget the entrancing sound of the three countertenors, who both relate, and participate in, the story. Their music hovers on a border between the celestial and the eerie.
Mr. Sellars's production blends the cast of three singers, three dancers and the countertenors into a fluid choreography of gestures that mingle singing, acting and movement. Though Jesus does not appear, the singers and dancers voice his words and become him.
As with the libretto he fashioned for Mr. Adams's opera ''Doctor Atomic,'' Mr. Sellars folds contemporary poems into the text in an attempt to underline the modern power of the Gospel. When the abject Mary Magdalene, thinking ruefully about her life and overcome after Jesus has raised Lazarus from the dead, washes his feet with her hair, she sings an Erdrich poem that ends with the lines: ''It is the old way that girls/get even with their fathers -- by wrecking their bodies on other men.''
Suddenly the Mary Magdalene of the Gospel seems a sympathetic figure, brought to life by Mr. Adams's wrenching music. At other times, though, I wish Mr. Sellars had been more selective in his borrowings. The libretto comes across as padded and, at times, so does the score.
Still, this is an important new work. The cast could not have been better. The rich-voiced mezzo-soprano Kelley O'Connor was a perplexed, passionate and humane Mary Magdalene. The mezzo-soprano Tamara Mumford brought a plush voice and affecting dignity to the role of Martha. The tenor Russell Thomas was an impassioned Lazarus, heroic in his quest to comprehend what encountering Jesus has done to his family.
The excellent countertenors Daniel Bubeck, Brian Cummings and Nathan Medley gave their all, both vocally and dramatically. And it was moving to see the impressive dancers Michael Schumacher, Anani Sanouvi and Troy Ogilvie almost attaching themselves to the singers during moments when music and movement became one.
The members of the Los Angeles Master Chorale (Grant Gershon, music director), dressed in colorful street clothes, sang splendidly. The blazing and vibrant playing of the orchestra under Mr. Dudamel conveyed ownership of a score they should rightly be proud of.
Mr. Dudamel began Thursday's program with Claude Vivier's ''Zipangu,'' a 1980 work for small string ensemble inspired by the composer's trip to Asia. The music sets an elusive Asian-pinged melody to tangy, piercing harmonies, played with tart colors in this riveting performance. Debussy's orchestral masterpiece ''La Mer'' ended the first half, a performance that, like the playing of ''The Firebird,'' had moment-to-moment touches of inspiration, but could have used more shape and direction.
Still, Mr. Dudamel is a classical-music rock star whose charisma translates into his music-making. It is hard to ask for more.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2013

 CORRECTION:
A music review last Saturday about two concerts by the Los Angeles Philharmonic at Avery Fisher Hall, led by the conductor Gustavo Dudamel, and a correction in this space on Friday misstated the date that works by Claude Vivier and Claude Debussy were performed. It was Thursday night, not Wednesday night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Los Angeles Philharmonic, conducted by Gustavo Dudamel, at Avery Fisher Hall this week. The ensemble presented two programs, including John Adams's oratorio ''The Gospel According to the Other Mary.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); DANCE (78%); BALLET (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); RELIGION (64%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (64%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2013



983 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 30

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Scrutiny for a hacker; mortgage leniency ends in Ireland; hedge fund executive is arrested, and cyberattacks target companies. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Sven Olaf Kamphuis calls himself the "minister of telecommunications and foreign affairs for the Republic of CyberBunker." Others see him as the Prince of Spam. Mr. Kamphuis, who is actually Dutch, is at the heart of an international investigation into one of the biggest cyberattacks identified by authorities. Because of his outspoken position in a loose federation of hackers, authorities in the Netherlands and several other countries are examining what role he or the Internet companies he runs played in snarling traffic on the Web this week. Eric Pfanner and Kevin J. O'Brien report. 
More than 143,000 home mortgages are in arrears in Ireland, but forced repossessions have been politically and legally difficult. That is about to change. Under pressure from the international lenders who agreed to a (EURO)85 billion bailout of the Irish economy in 2010, a law that has been restricting banks' right to repossess property is being amended to allow them to repossess delinquent properties. As Ireland's fellow euro zone member Cyprus may be about to learn, bailouts come with strings that can bind for years to come. Stephen Castle reports from Dublin.
One of the most senior employees of the SAC capital has been ensnared in the government's multiyear insider trading investigation of the prominent hedge fund. F.B.I. agents showed up at the apartment of Michael S. Steinberg on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and arrested him in the pre-dawn hours Friday. Just the day before, Mr. Steinberg had returned from a vacation in Florida, where he and his family visited relatives and took a trip to Disney World. Peter Lattman reports from New York.
American Express customers trying to gain access to their online accounts this week were met with blank screens or an ominous ancient type face. The company confirmed that its Web site had come under attack. The assault, which took American Express offline for two hours, was the latest in an intensifying campaign of unusually powerful attacks on American financial institutions that began last September and have taken dozens of them offline intermittently, costing millions of dollars. Nicole Perlroth and David E. Sanger report.
 SPORTS If Robbie Rogers returns to professional soccer, he would become the first openly gay male athlete to compete in a major American team sport. In an interview with The New York Times, he opens up about his decision to come out of the closet. Letters and e-mails and texts have flowed in from North America, Europe and Asia, and Rogers has been grateful for the support. But there has also been a growing wonder about whether Rogers will consider continuing his career, making him the first openly gay male athlete to play in a major American team sport. Sam Borden reports.
 ARTS The spiraling inflation that is pushing the art of the past to ever more dizzying heights has auction house bosses rolling their eyes in ecstasy. Reports recently released sing to high heaven world auction records and gigantic sales, but refrain from noting that these are in danger of driving the market into a brick wall. Souren Melikian reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); REPOSSESSION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); SPORTS (84%); SPORTS & RECREATION (84%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); EURO ZONE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTERNET BANKING (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SOCCER (60%); INSIDER TRADING (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CYPRUS (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



984 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: King Cotton's Long Shadow

BYLINE: WALTER JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Slavery was crucial to the development of global capitalism. 

 BODY:
Last month, researchers at University College London made public a database that describes in illuminating detail one of the largest government bailouts in modern history. In 1833, Britain paid 20 million pounds to compensate 3,000 Caribbean slaveholders for the emancipation of their slaves. The payments constituted about 40 percent of total governmental expenditures that year. Conversation about the database in Britain centered on the recipients of these reparations for slaveholders, among them the ancestors of George Orwell, Graham Greene and David Cameron.
Apart from a few hundred slaveholders in the District of Columbia, no one in the United States received such compensation for the loss of their human property. According to Abraham Lincoln, at least, the cost of emancipation in the United States was to be reckoned in blood. In his Second Inaugural Address, Lincoln said he feared God would will the war to continue "until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword." 
This reckoning of the value of slaves in blood and treasure raises an important, though too frequently overlooked, question. What was the role of slavery in American economic development?
The most familiar answer to that question is: not much. By most accounts, the triumph of freedom and the birth of capitalism are seen as the same thing. The victory of the North over the South in the Civil War represents the victory of capitalism over slavery, of the future over the past, of the factory over the plantation. In actual fact, however, in the years before the Civil War, there was no capitalism without slavery. The two were, in many ways, one and the same.
At the end of the 18th century, slavery in the United States was a declining institution. Tobacco planters in Virginia and Maryland had exhausted their soil and were switching to wheat. Wage labor was increasingly replacing slave labor in both the urban and the rural areas of the upper South.
And then came cotton.
The first part of the story is well known: the invention of the cotton gin in the 1790s and the concomitant rise of industrial capacity in Britain and the urban North made possible the profitable cultivation of cotton in a vast region of the lower South, one that stretched from South Carolina to Louisiana, which came to be called the "Cotton Kingdom."
Between 1803 and 1838, the United States, most famously personified by Andrew Jackson, fought a multifront war in the Deep South. In those years, the United States suppressed slave revolts and pacified whites still loyal to the European powers that had once controlled the region. These wars culminated in the ethnic cleansing of the Deep South. By the end of the 1830s, the Seminole, the Creek, the Chickasaw, the Choctaw and the Cherokee had all been "removed" to lands west of the Mississippi. Their expropriated land provided the foundation of the leading sector of the global economy in the first half of the 19th century.
In the 1830s, hundreds of millions of acres of conquered land were surveyed and put up for sale by the United States. This vast privatization of the public domain touched off one of the greatest economic booms in the history of the world up to that time. Investment capital from Britain, the Continent and the Northern states poured into the land market. "Under this stimulating process, prices rose like smoke," the journalist Joseph Baldwin wrote in his memoir, "The Flush Times of Alabama and Mississippi."
Without slavery, however, the survey maps of the General Land Office would have remained a sort of science-fiction plan for a society that could never happen. Between 1820 and 1860 more than a million enslaved people were transported from the upper to the lower South, the vast majority by the venture-capitalist slave traders the slaves called "soul drivers." The first wave cleared the region for cultivation. "Forests were literally dragged out by the roots," the former slave John Parker remembered in "His Promised Land." Those who followed planted the fields in cotton, which they then protected, picked, packed and shipped - from "sunup to sundown" every day for the rest of their lives.
Eighty-five percent of the cotton Southern slaves picked was shipped to Britain. The mills that have come to symbolize the Industrial Revolution and the slave-tilled fields of the South were mutually dependent. Every year, British merchant banks advanced millions of pounds to American planters in anticipation of the sale of the cotton crop. Planters then traded credit in pounds for the goods they needed to get through the year, many of them produced in the North. "From the rattle with which the nurse tickles the ear of the child born in the South, to the shroud that covers the cold form of the dead, everything comes to us from the North," said one Southerner.
As slaveholders supplied themselves (and, much more meanly, their slaves) with Northern goods, the credit originally advanced against cotton made its way north, into the hands of New York and New England merchants who used it to purchase British goods. Thus were Indian land, African-American labor, Atlantic finance and British industry synthesized into racial domination, profit and economic development on a national and a global scale.
When the cotton crop came in short and sales failed to meet advanced payments, planters found themselves indebted to merchants and bankers. Slaves were sold to make up the difference. The mobility and salability of slaves meant they functioned as the primary form of collateral in the credit-and-cotton economy of the 19th century.
It is not simply that the labor of enslaved people underwrote 19th-century capitalism. Enslaved people were the capital: four million people worth at least $3 billion in 1860, which was more than all the capital invested in railroads and factories in the United States combined. Seen in this light, the conventional distinction between slavery and capitalism fades into meaninglessness.
We are accustomed to reckoning the legacy of slavery in the United States in terms of black disadvantage. The centrality of slavery to the nation's economic development, however, suggests that any calculation of the nation's unpaid debt for slavery must include a measure of the wealth it produced, of advantage as well as disadvantage. The United States, as W. E. B. Du Bois wrote, was "built upon a groan."
 Walter Johnson, a professor of history and African and African-American Studies at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of "River of Dark Dreams: Slavery and Empire in the Cotton Kingdom." 

        
Partners in Iniquity
        
Singapore's Lessons for an Unequal America
        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
The South's Man in London
        
The Coming of the Emancipation Proclamation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (91%); HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COTTON GINNING (69%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (68%); COTTON FARMING (68%); TOBACCO FARMING (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Great Britain; International Trade and World Market; Slavery; Southern States (US); United States Economy; The Great Divide

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) SOUTHEAST USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%) Great Britain; Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



985 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Beyond All-Wheel Drive, All-Wheel Steering

BYLINE: By AARON ROBINSON

 BODY:
The notion of making vehicles turn better by steering all four of their wheels has inspired engineers for decades. The United States Army experimented with all-wheel-steering jeeps during World War II, and the benefits to maneuverability of rear-steering have long been known to firefighters assigned to hook-and-ladder trucks.
As demonstrated by its new flagship sedan, the Acura RLX, Honda Motor is taking its luxury division down the same well-traveled path. But the company is adding some new gloss to an old idea. 
The 2014 RLX, on display in the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center when the New York auto show opened to the public on Friday, incorporates a feature that Acura calls Precision All-Wheel Steer. The system is intended to improve the handling of the front-drive RLX by adding steering capability to the rear wheels.
The cheeky acronym that appears on the car's trunk lid, P-AWS, seems well suited to a technology that the company claims will give the $50,000 RLX more catlike reflexes.
The image enhancement promised by the P-AWS system is something that Acura's top model could certainly use. Its predecessor, the 4-wheel-drive RL, was a chronic slow seller; to compete with the likes of the Audi A6 and A7, BMW 5 Series, Infiniti Q50, Lexus GS and Mercedes-Benz E-Class, the RLX will need the ability to take corners as well as these poised -- and predominantly rear-drive -- sedans.
Starting in the 1980s, Japanese automakers like Honda, Mazda, Mitsubishi and Nissan brought four-wheel-steering to performance models, and in 2002-5, General Motors marketed its Quadrasteer system on full-size pickups. But when sales dipped with the economy, the systems, which were heavy and costly, faded away.
With miniaturized electronics and the widespread adoption of electric power steering, rear-steering is now experiencing something of a resurgence. BMW offers it on the 5 Series, as will Porsche on the coming 911 GT3.
In the new RLX, the rear wheels are steered by electric actuators on each side of the rear suspension. As a result, the left and right rear wheels can steer independently of each other. The system, which was in development for five years, adds just 11 pounds to the car's weight, said Yousuke Sekino, chief engineer of the RLX, whose credentials include designing the suspensions for the 1986 Acura Legend and the 1990 NSX supercar.
Mr. Sekino likens P-AWS to the two skis of an Olympic slalom competitor. ''By controlling both skis independently, the skier can control his turning and braking very precisely,'' he said.
Unlike the front wheels, which turn in a wide sweep, the RLX's rear wheels turn only a small amount, a maximum of two degrees left or two degrees right from center. They also react differently depending on the situation. Under braking, both turn inward slightly to increase the car's straight-ahead stability. As the driver turns into a right-hand corner, the rear wheels steer slightly left to make the car turn more quickly; in a left-hand corner, they do the opposite.
At parking lot speeds, this opposite-direction steering also makes the car more maneuverable in tight spots. At freeway speeds, the system automatically switches modes; the rear wheels then turn in the same direction as the fronts. That's to improve control in situations like diving across multiple lanes for an off-ramp.
The almost-undetectable labors of these systems are intended to make the RLX more agile and free it from understeer, or the tendency to plow forward even if the steering wheel is turned.
For those who have enough trouble steering just the front wheels, fear not; the actuators are not directly linked to the steering wheel. Rather, a computer determines from the driver's inputs into the steering wheel, brake and gas pedal how best to steer the rear wheels to improve handling. And, unlike Honda's previous four-wheel-steering system for the Prelude model of the 1990s, P-AWS shuts off when the car is in reverse. ''Many drivers complained about that,'' Mr. Sekino said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CATLIKE: The 2014 Acura RLX, which went on sale this month, is one of several new models that offer four-wheel steering to improve handling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN HONDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); SKIING (83%); ARMIES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (76%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); TRADE SHOWS (70%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



986 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating With Beer, Not Bubbles

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
Shrinking unemployment, healthy sales, shoppers flexing their tire-kicking legs: carmakers selling in the revived North American market have much to celebrate at the New York International Auto Show, which opened on Friday.
Since sales in the United States bottomed at 10.4 million in 2009, shoppers have returned with enthusiasm. Joachim Schmidt, sales and marketing chief of Mercedes-Benz, said the company expects American vehicle sales to hit 15.5 million this year. That would be a six-year high -- within sight of the 16.1 million sales in a pre-recession 2007.
Those shoppers, dreamers and coming generations of car buyers will converge at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center for the public show that runs through April 7. And while they will see the usual Lotto-winner fantasies -- including the alluring Rolls-Royce Wraith, a $300,000 fastback coupe -- the show's most important debuts ran to entry-priced luxury cars and mainstream models.
Those include the reborn Jeep Cherokee, a brazenly reimagined crossover that invokes the name if not the hardy attitude of the original. Toyota offered a redesign of its family-friendly Highlander; Dodge, Acura and Infiniti fired back with their own three-row people movers, the Durango, MDX and QX60 Hybrid. 
Even luxury models set a tone of relative attainability, along with modest sizes and improved fuel efficiency. Audi previewed its entry-level A3 at a press-only event; the stylish sedan will not be displayed at the Javits center.
Here are some of the other models newly introduced in New York:
AUDI Trust-fund offspring and striving young professionals will hail the A3, which gathers sleek design, an architectural interior and the latest technology in a downsized sedan package. On sale early next year at a base price below $30,000, the A3 will offer a 1.8-liter gasoline engine in base form, along with turbocharged 2-liter gasoline and diesel engines. The high-performance S3 version will be powered by a nearly 300-horsepower gasoline engine.
BENTLEY Drawing styling inspiration from the company's Mulsanne flagship, the all-new Flying Spur drops the Continental name. The familiar twin-turbo W-12 engine supplies an ample 616 horsepower, spurring the Spur to a 200 m.p.h. top speed. Expect a starting price of roughly $200,000.
BMW The 5 Series GT has been excoriated for its humpback styling and largely shunned by buyers, but BMW intends to test the stretched-hatchback formula again in the 3 Series. Eight inches longer than a 3 sedan, the GT version offers decisively more rear-seat legroom and cargo space. The $42,345 328i version gets 240 horsepower from a 2-liter turbo 4-cylinder, with the 335i model, at $47,745, pushing 300 horses from a 3-liter in-line 6.
CADILLAC The midsize CTS is smartly redesigned to take on the lavishly reworked Audi A6 and Mercedes E-Class. Engine choices for the 2014 CTS include a 272-horsepower 2-liter turbo 4, a 321-horse 3.6-liter V-6 and, for the V-Sport version, a twin-turbo V-6 with 420 ponies. The CTS arrives in dealerships this fall, starting around $40,000.
CHEVROLET Chevrolet pulled a fast one, unexpectedly revealing the Z/28, which revives a name first used for a special high-performance Camaro option in 1967. About 300 pounds lighter than standard Camaros, the Z/28 charges from the gate next year with a 7-liter V-8 of some 500 horsepower.
DODGE The appealingly brawny seven-passenger Durango S.U.V. gets a slightly restyled face and the striking full-width style of taillamps found on the Dodge Dart and Charger. Changes for the better include a fuel-saving 8-speed automatic transmission and a reworked interior with digital gauges. It arrives in the fall at a base price of about $30,000.
HONDA They were unable to resist the frat-boy jokes about the Honda Odyssey's new built-in vacuum cleaner, but journalists extolled the HondaVac built into the rear cargo walls of the 2014 Touring Elite version. Capable of tidying up after toddlers, teenagers and slobs of all stripes, the refreshed Odysseys go on sale in summer.
INFINITI Infiniti's seven-passenger QX60 crossover is now greener by way of a Hybrid version that squeezes 250 horsepower from a supercharged 4-cylinder engine and an electric motor. Expect a base price of roughly $44,500 when the QX60 Hybrid goes on sale this summer.
JAGUAR The hissing-cat version of the flagship XJ sedan, the $116,000 XJR, arrives later this year with a 550-horsepower supercharged V-8 and a new 8-speed automatic.
JEEP A radical departure from the boxy models of the past, the new streamlined Cherokee, based on a Fiat platform, adopts Chrysler's 9-speed automatic. Powertrain choices include a 184-horsepower 2.4-liter 4 (that Chrysler estimates will return 31 m.p.g. on the highway), a 271-horse, 3.2-liter V-6 and three 4-wheel-drive systems. Pricing was not announced.
KIA Unlike the Cherokee, the Soul remains proudly boxy, but now wears a resculptured body, a stiffer structure and a smartly upgraded interior. Two 4-cylinder engines will be available when the Soul hits showrooms this fall at a base price of roughly $16,000.
LAND ROVER The New York area accounts for more Range Rover Sport sales than any other market. City buyers are likely to favor this new $63,495 version as well, with its tailored, minimalist styling. Engine choices include a 340-horse supercharged V-6 and a stirring 510-horse supercharged V-8.
MERCEDES-BENZ The most affordable Mercedes sedan, the $30,000 CLA, spawns the most affordable model from the company's power-mad tuner division: the CLA45 AMG, which wrings 355 horsepower from a 2-liter turbo 4-cylinder. The explosive all-wheel-drive fun begins in November, starting at $48,325. At the other end of the carbon-emitting scale is the first all-electric model from the Mercedes-Benz brand, the B-Class Electric Drive, with Mercedes suggesting a price below $40,000. The electric hatchback claims a 110-mile range and recharging in less than four hours.
MITSUBISHI The micro-scale Mirage hatch, Mitsubishi says, will be the most fuel-sipping nonhybrid car in America, at an estimated 37/44 m.p.g. The downside may be power, with just 74 horses from a 1-liter 3-cylinder engine.
NISSAN Nissan claims a 24 percent mileage bump from the supercharged Pathfinder Hybrid, to roughly 25 m.p.g. in combined city and highway rating. On sale this summer, the seven-passenger Pathfinder gets a reasonable 250 horsepower from a supercharged 4-cylinder engine and 15-kilowatt electric motor.
PORSCHE The track-day dream of affluent 911 fans, the $130,000 GT3 arrives in November, cranking 475 horses from a 3.8-liter boxer 6. Porsche cites a 0-to-60 blast in 3.3 seconds and a 195 m.p.h. top speed.
ROLLS-ROYCE The name harkens to a 1938 Rolls-Royce, yet the Wraith seems the most excitingly modern Rolls in years. The impossibly luxurious fastback coupe -- with rear-hinged, wood-veneered doors -- is meant to give chauffeurs the weekend off, with owners pleasurably controlling its 624-horsepower turbo V-12.
SCION On sale in June, Scion's affordable tC coupe -- the mainstay of its youth-centric lineup -- gets mild upgrades including a reworked body, 18-inch wheels and a faster-shifting 6-speed automatic.
SUBARU One of the stars of the New York show is the WRX Concept, which previews the styling of a production version that arrives early next year. Its rippling body and arched roofline are a stark departure for a compact that has long emphasized performance over style. Also on hand is the XV Crosstrek Hybrid, Subaru's first gas-electric model. Alas, its indifferent mileage rating of 28/34 m.p.g. barely tops the nonhybrid version.
TOYOTA Arriving for soccer-mom duty early next year, the 2014 Highlander adds new shape to its formerly anonymous exterior. Buyers can choose among 4- or 6-cylinder engines or a hybrid version.
VOLKSWAGEN Lighter, faster, roomier and more fuel-efficient -- and primed to take on the formidable Ford Focus ST -- the new Golf GTI zips into dealers in summer 2014. A 2-liter turbo 4 supplies 210 horses, while a stylish new interior revives the plaid seat upholstery familiar to VW fans.
VOLVO Station wagons barely make a blip on America's radar or its sales charts, but the Volvo V60 R-Design bravely challenges the odds. The sleek Swedish offshoot of the S60 sedan goes on sale next year, probably with an optional all-wheel-drive system. It will be powered by the S60's 2.5-liter 5 and 3-liter 6.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHATEVER MOVES YOU: Top, Kia's hamsters shook up the Javits center at the introduction of the 2014 Soul. Upper left, Alvin Ailey dancers performed as Mercedes-Benz rolled out its CLA45 AMG. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
SUDDENLY IT'S 2014: Clockwise from top, redesigned models for next year of the Toyota Highlander, Cadillac CTS, Chevrolet Camaro Z/28, Volvo V60 R-Design and Volkswagen Golf GTI. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES
BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOHN MINCHILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 VOLVO CARS OF NORTH AMERICA) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); MINIVANS (78%); LOTTERIES (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); DIESEL FUEL (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



987 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; APP CITY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: A Ride Home That's Not a Taxi, Maybe

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN. 
Twitter to @joshuabrustein.

 BODY:
As I was finishing dinner in Park Slope last Friday, I opened an app on my phone and arranged for a car to pick me up.
There was a twist: instead of a black car pulling up to the curb, I was greeted by Kristy Wada, a 22-year-old woman from Forest Hills, who was willing to drive me home to Queens in her gray Acura TSX.
Ms. Wada is a driver for SideCar, a ride-sharing service that connects people who own cars to passengers heading the same way. SideCar began operating in limited fashion in New York two weeks ago; it operates in eight other cities across the nation. The service is now available only on weekend nights for rides originating in Brooklyn. 
The company's plan is to build up a critical mass of drivers and riders over the next several months so that the service will be useful throughout the city at most times of the day. From there, SideCar's modest goal is to undermine the idea of car ownership.
''The world we see in the future is one where just a small subset of people -- a minority of people -- have cars of their own,'' said Sunil Paul, SideCar's founder. ''Everyone else can get rides.''
Mr. Paul acknowledges that there is a long way to go to meet that goal. New York poses an unusual problem, because car ownership here is less widespread than in other cities where the company operates. In many of the hip areas of Brooklyn where Mr. Paul said the company was focusing its efforts, fewer than 40 percent of households own cars, compared with over 90 percent of households nationwide.
SideCar is seeding the service by paying drivers to make themselves available on Friday nights. Eventually, it says, the only compensation will come from passengers whom they pick up. The company says there are several dozen drivers operating in New York, but declined to say how many rides they are giving.
When we arrived at my apartment, the SideCar app suggested that I pay Ms. Wada $30 as a ''donation.'' This was less than a car service would have cost, and with a quick click I paid her through the app with a credit card. The payment was voluntary, a major point for SideCar as it maneuvers around another major obstacle: regulation.
SideCar's brand of ride sharing occupies the muddy area between informal economic activity and running a business. On the one hand, Mr. Paul argues that the government doesn't regulate road trips where everyone chips in for gas; on the other hand, drivers like Ms. Wada describe what they are doing as a kind of paid work. By making payment voluntary, SideCar is trying to keep itself outside the definition of taxi or car service.
It is not going to be easy. SideCar has faced conflicts with state regulators in California, and local ones in Austin and Philadelphia. And while it has not faced legal trouble in New York so far, the car-service industry here has been trying to stop the spread of smartphone-based taxi service. For now, SideCar's small scale may be its best protection against legal action.
The Taxi and Limousine Commission has been supportive of the tech revolution in the car service industry, so I asked what it thought of SideCar.
''Without commenting on any specific app, if an entity exhibits characteristics of for-hire service, such as requiring payments for point-to-point rides within the City of New York, they would need to be licensed,'' Allan Fromberg, a spokesman, said in an e-mail. As to whether SideCar met that standard, Mr. Fromberg said he just did not know.
APP SideCar
PLATFORM iOS and Android
PRICE Free
Have a favorite New York City app? Send tips by e-mail to appcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); MARKET INCIDENCE (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



988 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | CONNECTICUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: At Twain's Home, an Era He Skewered

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD

 BODY:
You would expect to be amused at an exhibition generously peppered with the wit and wisdom of Samuel Langhorne Clemens, the writer better known as Mark Twain. And the new show at the Mark Twain House and Museum, ''The Gilded Age of Hartford,'' does indeed deliver entertainment as it documents the rising fortunes and changing social framework of Hartford in the 1870s, '80s and '90s.
You can look, for example, at a replica of one of Clemens's handwritten tax bills -- for $1,277.41, which is about $27,000 in 2012 dollars -- while considering Twain's observation that ''There isn't a rich man in your vast city who doesn't perjure himself every year before the tax board.'' The baseball and catcher's mask meant to illustrate the growing popularity of professional baseball are offset by the text of an ad Clemens placed in the May 20, 1875, edition of The Hartford Courant, after watching the hometown Dark Blues play the Boston Red Stockings: 
TWO HUNDRED & FIVE DOLLARS REWARD -- At the great baseball match on Tuesday, while I was engaged in hurrahing, a small boy walked off with an English-made brown silk UMBRELLA belonging to me, & forgot to bring it back. I will pay $5 for the return of that umbrella in good condition to my house on Farmington avenue. I do not want the boy (in an active state) but will pay two hundred dollars for his remains.
We don't find out if Clemens ever got his umbrella, or if Twain got the boy. But even as ''The Gilded Age of Hartford'' allows the city's single most celebrated resident to make us laugh, it also finds unexpected ways to make us feel. And it's not just with the smattering of items relating to the private life of the Clemens family -- a well-worn wicker picnic basket, a faded high school report card, a pair of topaz cuff links still in their original velvet box. (The personal history is better told, of course, next door, in the Mark Twain House itself.)
Nor does this show's emotional subtext spring from its many nostalgia-triggers -- among them a 19th-century all-in-one school desk, an enormous candy tin for ''blood orange pellets,'' a high-wheeled bicycle manufactured in Hartford (as well as a quaint costume for female riders). Instead of just parading the outward signs of Hartford's success -- grand edifices like H. H. Richardson's R. & F. Cheney Building, major industries like the arms-maker Colt, civic improvements like parks and hospitals -- the photos, documents and objects chosen by the museum's chief curator, Patti Philippon, also elucidate the subsurface tensions threatening it.
While the show has a section devoted to the black painter Charles Ethan Porter and the moral and financial support he initially received from Clemens, it also makes clear that this prosperous city filled with thriving businesses harbored overt prejudice. The many trade cards on display carry innocuous advertising copy -- ''Our Mamas All Need a 'Hartford' Sewing Machine'' -- along with some harshly racist caricatures. Jews and Roman Catholics were allowed to build houses of worship, but the city directory didn't even make a pretense of equating them to Hartford's Protestant churches.
The period's booming economy inevitably alternated with busts, and desperate poverty and intractable disease expanded along with the trolley lines and factories. As the show notes, the stalwart efforts of local charities, churches, wealthy philanthropists and medical personnel at the growing Hartford Hospital could make only a small dent in these problems. A pair of hard-used wooden crutches and the haunting photograph of a dirty, sick-looking itinerant beggar known as the Leatherman are the most moving things in ''The Gilded Age of Hartford,'' precisely because no measure of gilding can disguise their sad meaning.
It was, of course, Twain and his Hartford neighbor, Charles Dudley Warner, who bestowed the name ''Gilded Age'' on the last third of the 19th century, with their 1873 novel, ''The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today.'' Its withering assessment of greed and chicanery across all levels of American society informs each of the displays in ''The Gilded Age of Hartford,'' and there's no way to avoid noticing that this exhibition, too, tells a tale of today.
''The Gilded Age of Hartford'' is at the Mark Twain House and Museum, 351 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, through Sept. 2. Information: marktwainhouse.org or (860) 247-0998.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: The Leatherman, a vagrant who, dressed all in leather, regularly walked between the Connecticut and Hudson Rivers
a Columbia Ordinary Bicycle and woman's cycling costume, from about 1879
members of the staff of Hartford Hospital, 1886
a tin of blood orange pellets sold at E. J. Hoadley, a Hartford confectioner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE MARK TWAIN HOUSE AND MUSEUM
JOHN GROO, CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY
 JOHN GROO, THE MARK TWAIN HOUSE AND MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



989 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Freelancers, Organized

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a retired federal employee turned independent contractor, I read with particular interest ''Going It Alone, Together'' (March 24), about the rapid growth of the Freelancers Union. 
I'm the first to acknowledge that I receive a generous federal pension, coupled with a Social Security benefit for my time in the private sector. I've looked at work life from both sides now and what I see as an independent contractor isn't pretty. The reality for this generation is that ''the freelance economy'' is the wave of the future: no job security, no benefits, no ''strings attached'' for employers. Three cheers for Sara Horowitz for the creation of the Freelancers Union, giving a voice to today's disenfranchised independent work force.
LOIS A. ENGEL
Washington, March 24
To the Editor:
Although many might call the Freelancers Union a labor union, that represents a common confusion over just what unionism is. We have labor unions to thank for the end to child labor, for the eight-hour workday, for the weekend, and for much more. When unions won these advances, they were advocating for all working people, and they changed the balance of power between the worker and the boss.
Freelancers Union members have their association to thank for their health insurance, which is not a bad thing. But there has been a regrettable downsizing of aspirations.
ELIZABETH ORAM
Manhattan, March 24
To the Editor:
I am a fan of the Freelancers Union concept as created by Sara Horowitz, its founder. However, as a freelancer, my concern in regard to health insurance is that my income varies. My ''gigs'' are not always long term.
I am still without health insurance because I would have to pay a set amount in premiums every month, even though I may not make enough to cover that amount, depending upon the life of the project. It would be terrific if there could be some way to pay on a sliding scale, based on income from the previous year's tax returns, although that would still be no guarantee that I could afford it from one year to the next.
JOAN GRANGENOIS-THOMAS
Port Chester, N.Y., March 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILD LABOR (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



990 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Soda Wars, Revisited

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Mixing Freedoms in a 32-Ounce Cup'' (Economic View, March 24), in which Robert H. Frank said the recent fight over sugar-laden sodas in New York also involved parents' right to raise healthy children: 
But Professor Frank's suggestion that ''we could tax sugary soft drinks'' must be strengthened to ''we must tax sugary soft drinks.'' Those supersized sodas must be taxed just as cigarettes are. Place a powerful surcharge on these beverages, and people will absolutely think twice about buying them. Besides, the city and state always need money for health-related initiatives, and such a tax would help fill those coffers.
FIONA BAYLY
Manhattan, March 24
To the Editor:
Of course parents have the right to raise healthy children. But that hardly justifies turning the whole county into a kindergarten that bars everyone from buying anything that is bad for children. If we ban 32-ounce sodas on these grounds, why not also ban alcohol, lottery tickets, and X-rated movies?
And Robert H. Frank's suggestion that we instead tax sugary soft drinks involves presumptuous top-down social engineering in a regressive form that disproportionately burdens the poor. Maybe, as the column says, ''few people go to their graves wishing that they and their loved ones had drunk more sugary drinks," but not all people want to live a way that will make them most satisfied on their deathbeds. Some people want to exercise their unalienable right to pursue happiness right now.
FELICIA NIMUE ACKERMAN
Providence, R.I., March 24
The writer is a professor of philosophy at Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (93%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); WRITERS (73%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MOVIE RATINGS (67%); PHILOSOPHY (63%); LOTTERIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



991 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: 

 BODY:
Building High Anxiety
In last Sunday's Big City column, Ginia Bellafante offered a critique of the Bloomberg administration's planned rezoning of Midtown East to allow new skyscrapers in light of the 50th anniversary of the Pan Am Building, today known as the MetLife Building. Reader responses from nytimes.com, some of them condensed, are below. 
That's right, that's what N.Y. needs.
Let's line Park Avenue with buildings as big (and as ugly) as the Pan Am (oops, MetLife) Building. All the way up to 96th Street. No wait -- they should be even bigger than the MetLife Building (and if the celebrity architects and developers get their way, even uglier), because, you see, that's what's needed to keep ''us'' competitive with London and Shanghai.
We need to show everyone that N.Y. is not ashamed of ''change.'' You know, the type of great changes that demolished the old Penn Station, or destroyed neighborhoods to put in the Cross Bronx Expressway. Because everyone knows that change is always good. Just ask the developers and Mayor Bloomberg.
Tom Graves
Tokyo
The Pan Am Building is an excrescence, but really, how does that carry over to the not-very-distinguished-if-occasionally-famous commercial buildings that line the avenue?
From a practical perspective, we have to remember that the city's economy and the well-being of the region's residents depend on creating an attractive climate for business.
From an architectural perspective, well, most modern buildings are pretty dismal. But we should also remember that the distinctiveness of Manhattan is the fact that it's always reached for the sky. And this works brilliantly for those who inhabit its canyons, even though one might think it doesn't. It creates a dynamism and richness of life that is absent elsewhere.
With its glass boxes and plazas, Park Avenue near Grand Central is already a pretty sterile place, one that I used to avoid when I lived and worked in the neighborhood. I think we should give commerce, and the Manhattan aesthetic, an opportunity here, and focus preservationist energy on preserving beautiful old neighborhoods, rebuilding Penn Station -- and dismantling the MetLife Building one night when everyone's asleep.
Josh Hill
New London
In 1966 I flew in a helicopter from J.F.K. to the Pan Am Building that beat anything else in the air. The landing was spectacular, but even more of a thrill was the takeoff, as the chopper at first backed off slowly, giving one a white-knuckle view 60 stories straight down. A round trip, I recall, was in the $20 range.
Jim Murray
Saint Paul MN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ZONING (78%); HELICOPTERS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (57%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



992 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Looks Different Now

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
IN 1997, two prominent conservative writers, David Frum and Andrew Sullivan, debated same-sex marriage for the online magazine Slate.
Frum defended what was then the consensus conservative (and consensus national) position. Redefining marriage to include same-sex couples, he argued, would explicitly sever the institution's connection to the two interrelated realities, gender difference and procreation, that it had evolved to address. In so doing, it would replace a traditional view of matrimony with a broader, thinner, more adult-centric view, which would ultimately be less likely to bind parents to children, husbands to wives.
''Proponents of gay marriage can only get what they want,'' Frum wrote, ''by weakening Americans' attachment to the traditional family even more than it has already been weakened,'' and speeding the ''process of social dissolution'' that the 1960s and 1970s began. 
Sullivan countered that the ''process'' Frum feared was simply an established fact. Heterosexuals had already severed marriage from procreation and permanence, and so there was no more reason to deny same-sex couples marriage licenses than to deny them to the infertile and elderly. Indeed, far from being radical, gay marriage was more likely to be stabilizing, ''sending a message about matrimonial responsibility and mutual caring'' to gays and straights alike.
Half a generation later, Sullivan's view has carried the day almost completely. The conservative argument still has serious exponents, but it's now chuckled at in courtrooms, dismissed by intellectuals, mocked in the media and (in a sudden, recent rush) abandoned by politicians. Indeed, it has been abandoned by Frum himself, who is now energetically urging Republicans to embrace the redefinition of marriage he once warned against.
Yet for an argument that has persuaded so few, the conservative view has actually had decent predictive power. As the cause of gay marriage has pressed forward, the social link between marriage and childbearing has indeed weakened faster than before. As the public's shift on the issue has accelerated, so has marriage's overall decline.
Since Frum warned that gay marriage could advance only at traditional wedlock's expense, the marriage rate has been falling faster, the out-of-wedlock birthrate has been rising faster, and the substitution of cohabitation for marriage has markedly increased. Underlying these trends is a steady shift in values: Americans are less likely to see children as important to marriage and less likely to see marriage as important to childbearing (the generation gap on gay marriage shows up on unwed parenting as well) than even in the very recent past.
Correlations do not, of course, establish causation. The economy is obviously playing a leading role in the retreat from marriage -- the shocks of recession, the stagnation of wages, the bleak prospects of blue-collar men. Culturally, what matters most is the emergence of what the National Marriage Project calls a ''capstone'' understanding of marriage, which treats wedlock less as a foundation for adulthood and more as a celebration of adult achievement -- and which seems to work out far better for our disciplined upper class than for society as a whole.
But there is also a certain willed naïveté to the idea that the advance of gay marriage is unrelated to any other marital trend. For 10 years, America's only major public debate about marriage and family has featured one side -- judges and journalists, celebrities and now finally politicians -- pressing the case that modern marriage has nothing to do with the way human beings reproduce themselves, that the procreative understanding of the institution was founded entirely on prejudice, and that the shift away from a male-female marital ideal is analogous to the end of segregation.
Now that this argument seems on its way to victory, is it really plausible that it has changed how Americans view gay relationships while leaving all other ideas about matrimony untouched?
You can tell this naïveté is willed because it's selective. There are plenty of interesting arguments, often from gay writers, about how the march to gay marriage might be influencing heterosexual norms -- from Alex Ross's recent musings in The New Yorker on the sudden ''queer vibe'' in straight pop culture to Dan Savage's famous argument that straights might do well to imitate the ''monogamish'' norms of some gay male couples. It's only the claim that this influence might not always be positive that is dismissed as bigotry and unreason.
A more honest, less triumphalist case for gay marriage would be willing to concede that, yes, there might be some social costs to redefining marriage. It would simply argue that those costs are too diffuse and hard to quantify to outweigh the immediate benefits of recognizing gay couples' love and commitment.
Such honesty would make social liberals more magnanimous in what looks increasingly like victory, and less likely to hound and harass religious institutions that still want to elevate and defend the older marital ideal.
But whether people think they're on the side of God or of History, magnanimity has rarely been a feature of the culture war.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A couple after their wedding in San Francisco in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (73%); PARENTING (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



993 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2801 words

HEADLINE: Sundown in America

BYLINE: By DAVID A. STOCKMAN. 
A former Republican congressman from Michigan, President Ronald Reagan's budget director from 1981 to 1985 and the author, most recently, of ''The Great Deformation: The Corruption of Capitalism in America.''

 BODY:
GREENWICH, Conn.The Dow Jones and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes reached record highs on Thursday, having completely erased the losses since the stock market's last peak, in 2007. But instead of cheering, we should be very afraid.
Over the last 13 years, the stock market has twice crashed and touched off a recession: American households lost $5 trillion in the 2000 dot-com bust and more than $7 trillion in the 2007 housing crash. Sooner or later -- within a few years, I predict -- this latest Wall Street bubble, inflated by an egregious flood of phony money from the Federal Reserve rather than real economic gains, will explode, too. 
Since the S.&P. 500 first reached its current level, in March 2000, the mad money printers at the Federal Reserve have expanded their balance sheet sixfold (to $3.2 trillion from $500 billion). Yet during that stretch, economic output has grown by an average of 1.7 percent a year (the slowest since the Civil War); real business investment has crawled forward at only 0.8 percent per year; and the payroll job count has crept up at a negligible 0.1 percent annually. Real median family income growth has dropped 8 percent, and the number of full-time middle class jobs, 6 percent. The real net worth of the ''bottom'' 90 percent has dropped by one-fourth. The number of food stamp and disability aid recipients has more than doubled, to 59 million, about one in five Americans.
So the Main Street economy is failing while Washington is piling a soaring debt burden on our descendants, unable to rein in either the warfare state or the welfare state or raise the taxes needed to pay the nation's bills. By default, the Fed has resorted to a radical, uncharted spree of money printing. But the flood of liquidity, instead of spurring banks to lend and corporations to spend, has stayed trapped in the canyons of Wall Street, where it is inflating yet another unsustainable bubble.
When it bursts, there will be no new round of bailouts like the ones the banks got in 2008. Instead, America will descend into an era of zero-sum austerity and virulent political conflict, extinguishing even today's feeble remnants of economic growth.
THIS dyspeptic prospect results from the fact that we are now state-wrecked. With only brief interruptions, we've had eight decades of increasingly frenetic fiscal and monetary policy activism intended to counter the cyclical bumps and grinds of the free market and its purported tendency to underproduce jobs and economic output. The toll has been heavy.
As the federal government and its central-bank sidekick, the Fed, have groped for one goal after another -- smoothing out the business cycle, minimizing inflation and unemployment at the same time, rolling out a giant social insurance blanket, promoting homeownership, subsidizing medical care, propping up old industries (agriculture, automobiles) and fostering new ones (''clean'' energy, biotechnology) and, above all, bailing out Wall Street -- they have now succumbed to overload, overreach and outside capture by powerful interests. The modern Keynesian state is broke, paralyzed and mired in empty ritual incantations about stimulating ''demand,'' even as it fosters a mutant crony capitalism that periodically lavishes the top 1 percent with speculative windfalls.
The culprits are bipartisan, though you'd never guess that from the blather that passes for political discourse these days. The state-wreck originated in 1933, when Franklin D. Roosevelt opted for fiat money (currency not fundamentally backed by gold), economic nationalism and capitalist cartels in agriculture and industry.
Under the exigencies of World War II (which did far more to end the Depression than the New Deal did), the state got hugely bloated, but remarkably, the bloat was put into brief remission during a midcentury golden era of sound money and fiscal rectitude with Dwight D. Eisenhower in the White House and William McChesney Martin Jr. at the Fed.
Then came Lyndon B. Johnson's ''guns and butter'' excesses, which were intensified over one perfidious weekend at Camp David, Md., in 1971, when Richard M. Nixon essentially defaulted on the nation's debt obligations by finally ending the convertibility of gold to the dollar. That one act -- arguably a sin graver than Watergate -- meant the end of national financial discipline and the start of a four-decade spree during which we have lived high on the hog, running a cumulative $8 trillion current-account deficit. In effect, America underwent an internal leveraged buyout, raising our ratio of total debt (public and private) to economic output to about 3.6 from its historic level of about 1.6. Hence the $30 trillion in excess debt (more than half the total debt, $56 trillion) that hangs over the American economy today.
This explosion of borrowing was the stepchild of the floating-money contraption deposited in the Nixon White House by Milton Friedman, the supposed hero of free-market economics who in fact sowed the seed for a never-ending expansion of the money supply. The Fed, which celebrates its centenary this year, fueled a roaring inflation in goods and commodities during the 1970s that was brought under control only by the iron resolve of Paul A. Volcker, its chairman from 1979 to 1987.
Under his successor, the lapsed hero Alan Greenspan, the Fed dropped Friedman's penurious rules for monetary expansion, keeping interest rates too low for too long and flooding Wall Street with freshly minted cash. What became known as the ''Greenspan put'' -- the implicit assumption that the Fed would step in if asset prices dropped, as they did after the 1987 stock-market crash -- was reinforced by the Fed's unforgivable 1998 bailout of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management.
That Mr. Greenspan's loose monetary policies didn't set off inflation was only because domestic prices for goods and labor were crushed by the huge flow of imports from the factories of Asia. By offshoring America's tradable-goods sector, the Fed kept the Consumer Price Index contained, but also permitted the excess liquidity to foster a roaring inflation in financial assets. Mr. Greenspan's pandering incited the greatest equity boom in history, with the stock market rising fivefold between the 1987 crash and the 2000 dot-com bust.
Soon Americans stopped saving and consumed everything they earned and all they could borrow. The Asians, burned by their own 1997 financial crisis, were happy to oblige us. They -- China and Japan above all -- accumulated huge dollar reserves, transforming their central banks into a string of monetary roach motels where sovereign debt goes in but never comes out. We've been living on borrowed time -- and spending Asians' borrowed dimes.
This dynamic reinforced the Reaganite shibboleth that ''deficits don't matter'' and the fact that nearly $5 trillion of the nation's $12 trillion in ''publicly held'' debt is actually sequestered in the vaults of central banks. The destruction of fiscal rectitude under Ronald Reagan -- one reason I resigned as his budget chief in 1985 -- was the greatest of his many dramatic acts. It created a template for the Republicans' utter abandonment of the balanced-budget policies of Calvin Coolidge and allowed George W. Bush to dive into the deep end, bankrupting the nation through two misbegotten and unfinanced wars, a giant expansion of Medicare and a tax-cutting spree for the wealthy that turned K Street lobbyists into the de facto office of national tax policy. In effect, the G.O.P. embraced Keynesianism -- for the wealthy.
The explosion of the housing market, abetted by phony credit ratings, securitization shenanigans and willful malpractice by mortgage lenders, originators and brokers, has been well documented. Less known is the balance-sheet explosion among the top 10 Wall Street banks during the eight years ending in 2008. Though their tiny sliver of equity capital hardly grew, their dependence on unstable ''hot money'' soared as the regulatory harness the Glass-Steagall Act had wisely imposed during the Depression was totally dismantled.
Within weeks of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in September 2008, Washington, with Wall Street's gun to its head, propped up the remnants of this financial mess in a panic-stricken melee of bailouts and money-printing that is the single most shameful chapter in American financial history.
There was never a remote threat of a Great Depression 2.0 or of a financial nuclear winter, contrary to the dire warnings of Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman since 2006. The Great Fear -- manifested by the stock market plunge when the House voted down the TARP bailout before caving and passing it -- was purely another Wall Street concoction. Had President Bush and his Goldman Sachs adviser (a k a Treasury Secretary) Henry M. Paulson Jr. stood firm, the crisis would have burned out on its own and meted out to speculators the losses they so richly deserved. The Main Street banking system was never in serious jeopardy, ATMs were not going dark and the money market industry was not imploding.
Instead, the White House, Congress and the Fed, under Mr. Bush and then President Obama, made a series of desperate, reckless maneuvers that were not only unnecessary but ruinous. The auto bailouts, for example, simply shifted jobs around -- particularly to the aging, electorally vital Rust Belt -- rather than saving them. The ''green energy'' component of Mr. Obama's stimulus was mainly a nearly $1 billion giveaway to crony capitalists, like the venture capitalist John Doerr and the self-proclaimed outer-space visionary Elon Musk, to make new toys for the affluent.
Less than 5 percent of the $800 billion Obama stimulus went to the truly needy for food stamps, earned-income tax credits and other forms of poverty relief. The preponderant share ended up in money dumps to state and local governments, pork-barrel infrastructure projects, business tax loopholes and indiscriminate middle-class tax cuts. The Democratic Keynesians, as intellectually bankrupt as their Republican counterparts (though less hypocritical), had no solution beyond handing out borrowed money to consumers, hoping they would buy a lawn mower, a flat-screen TV or, at least, dinner at Red Lobster.
But even Mr. Obama's hopelessly glib policies could not match the audacity of the Fed, which dropped interest rates to zero and then digitally printed new money at the astounding rate of $600 million per hour. Fast-money speculators have been ''purchasing'' giant piles of Treasury debt and mortgage-backed securities, almost entirely by using short-term overnight money borrowed at essentially zero cost, thanks to the Fed. Uncle Ben has lined their pockets.
If and when the Fed -- which now promises to get unemployment below 6.5 percent as long as inflation doesn't exceed 2.5 percent -- even hints at shrinking its balance sheet, it will elicit a tidal wave of sell orders, because even a modest drop in bond prices would destroy the arbitrageurs' profits. Notwithstanding Mr. Bernanke's assurances about eventually, gradually making a smooth exit, the Fed is domiciled in a monetary prison of its own making.
While the Fed fiddles, Congress burns. Self-titled fiscal hawks like Paul D. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, are terrified of telling the truth: that the 10-year deficit is actually $15 trillion to $20 trillion, far larger than the Congressional Budget Office's estimate of $7 trillion. Its latest forecast, which imagines 16.4 million new jobs in the next decade, compared with only 2.5 million in the last 10 years, is only one of the more extreme examples of Washington's delusions.
Even a supposedly ''bold'' measure -- linking the cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security payments to a different kind of inflation index -- would save just $200 billion over a decade, amounting to hardly 1 percent of the problem. Mr. Ryan's latest budget shamelessly gives Social Security and Medicare a 10-year pass, notwithstanding that a fair portion of their nearly $19 trillion cost over that decade would go to the affluent elderly. At the same time, his proposal for draconian 30 percent cuts over a decade on the $7 trillion safety net -- Medicaid, food stamps and the earned-income tax credit -- is another front in the G.O.P.'s war against the 99 percent.
Without any changes, over the next decade or so, the gross federal debt, now nearly $17 trillion, will hurtle toward $30 trillion and soar to 150 percent of gross domestic product from around 105 percent today. Since our constitutional stasis rules out any prospect of a ''grand bargain,'' the nation's fiscal collapse will play out incrementally, like a Greek/Cypriot tragedy, in carefully choreographed crises over debt ceilings, continuing resolutions and temporary budgetary patches.
The future is bleak. The greatest construction boom in recorded history -- China's money dump on infrastructure over the last 15 years -- is slowing. Brazil, India, Russia, Turkey, South Africa and all the other growing middle-income nations cannot make up for the shortfall in demand. The American machinery of monetary and fiscal stimulus has reached its limits. Japan is sinking into old-age bankruptcy and Europe into welfare-state senescence. The new rulers enthroned in Beijing last year know that after two decades of wild lending, speculation and building, even they will face a day of reckoning, too.
THE state-wreck ahead is a far cry from the ''Great Moderation'' proclaimed in 2004 by Mr. Bernanke, who predicted that prosperity would be everlasting because the Fed had tamed the business cycle and, as late as March 2007, testified that the impact of the subprime meltdown ''seems likely to be contained.'' Instead of moderation, what's at hand is a Great Deformation, arising from a rogue central bank that has abetted the Wall Street casino, crucified savers on a cross of zero interest rates and fueled a global commodity bubble that erodes Main Street living standards through rising food and energy prices -- a form of inflation that the Fed fecklessly disregards in calculating inflation.
These policies have brought America to an end-stage metastasis. The way out would be so radical it can't happen. It would necessitate a sweeping divorce of the state and the market economy. It would require a renunciation of crony capitalism and its first cousin: Keynesian economics in all its forms. The state would need to get out of the business of imperial hubris, economic uplift and social insurance and shift its focus to managing and financing an effective, affordable, means-tested safety net.
All this would require drastic deflation of the realm of politics and the abolition of incumbency itself, because the machinery of the state and the machinery of re-election have become conterminous. Prying them apart would entail sweeping constitutional surgery: amendments to give the president and members of Congress a single six-year term, with no re-election; providing 100 percent public financing for candidates; strictly limiting the duration of campaigns (say, to eight weeks); and prohibiting, for life, lobbying by anyone who has been on a legislative or executive payroll. It would also require overturning Citizens United and mandating that Congress pass a balanced budget, or face an automatic sequester of spending.
It would also require purging the corrosive financialization that has turned the economy into a giant casino since the 1970s. This would mean putting the great Wall Street banks out in the cold to compete as at-risk free enterprises, without access to cheap Fed loans or deposit insurance. Banks would be able to take deposits and make commercial loans, but be banned from trading, underwriting and money management in all its forms.
It would require, finally, benching the Fed's central planners, and restoring the central bank's original mission: to provide liquidity in times of crisis but never to buy government debt or try to micromanage the economy. Getting the Fed out of the financial markets is the only way to put free markets and genuine wealth creation back into capitalism.
That, of course, will never happen because there are trillions of dollars of assets, from Shanghai skyscrapers to Fortune 1000 stocks to the latest housing market ''recovery,'' artificially propped up by the Fed's interest-rate repression. The United States is broke -- fiscally, morally, intellectually -- and the Fed has incited a global currency war (Japan just signed up, the Brazilians and Chinese are angry, and the German-dominated euro zone is crumbling) that will soon overwhelm it. When the latest bubble pops, there will be nothing to stop the collapse. If this sounds like advice to get out of the markets and hide out in cash, it is.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK PERNICE) (SR1)
CHART: Indebtedness Dwarfs the Economy: Chart shows the total credit market of the United States -- all debt, whether owed by government, companies or individuals -- as a percent of G.D.P. At the end of last year, it was about 355%. In the 100 years before 1980, the total credit market averaged 160% of G.D.P. (Sources: Federal Reserve
 David A. Stockman (calculations for 1880-1980)) (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); FAMILY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



994 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Still at a Trot, This Bull May Have Farther to Go

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
FOR the last four years, market watchers have bemoaned the muted economic recovery, with its sluggish growth, tepid job creation and continuing investor fears.
Yet the qualities that have kept the animal spirits from returning to Wall Street may explain why today's bull market, which turned four years old this month, has outlasted the average rally. On Thursday, the end of a trading week truncated by the Good Friday holiday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at a new record high.
''Like a marathoner who didn't start out at a full sprint, will this bull have more stamina?'' asks Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ. ''My belief is this rally could end up lasting longer.'' 
Bull markets do not typically die of old age, but rather from the side effects of a lengthy rebound, market analysts say. Those include an economy that begins to overheat and a sense of overconfidence that develops among companies, consumers and investors, leading to risky behavior.
At the peak of the average bull market since World War II, gross domestic product was accelerating at an annual rate of 4.2 percent, according to a recent analysis by Mr. Stovall. By contrast, the most recent G.D.P. report found that the domestic economy grew by a mere 0.4 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Market peaks also tend to show other characteristics: unemployment tends to fall below 5 percent, as companies race to hire; around 60 percent of investors say they are ''bullish,'' according to sentiment surveys; and the price-to-earnings ratio for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumps above 18.
Yet today, unemployment -- though it has been drifting lower -- is still at an uncomfortably high 7.7 percent. Only 38 percent of investors recently surveyed described themselves as bullish, according to the latest poll by the American Association of Individual Investors. And the stock market's P/E ratio, based on the last 12 months of profits, stands below 16, which is close to the historical average.
''No doubt, circumstances have improved from a year or two ago, but I don't get a sense that there's much excess yet,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
There are other signs that ''we're far from the levels of overconfidence that produce the types of excesses that beget a downturn,'' Mr. Paulsen added. He noted, for instance, that investors were not overextending themselves by betting on the riskiest segments of the stock market. Household finances are improving. And the ratio of debt payments to disposable personal income is about as low as it has been since the early 1980s.
With regard to the private sector, Mr. Paulsen asked: ''Are companies overstaffed, are they overbuilding plants, overstocking inventory, or overleveraging their balance sheets?'' For that matter, he added, ''is the Fed over-tightening?'' Mr. Paulsen was referring to the fact that many bull markets die only after the Federal Reserve, sensing that the economy is overheating, raises interest rates to slow rampant growth.
To be sure, there are some signs that Wall Street firms and Main Street investors are starting to embrace risk-taking again.
For example, although merger-and-acquisition activity among domestic companies is still far off its 2006 highs in dollar terms, the actual number of deals hit a record number last year. And leveraged buyouts, transactions involving large amounts of borrowed money, are also starting to rise again after peaking in 2007, just before the financial crisis.
''Yes, you saw some big, splashy deals in M.& A., but I still think we're in the nascent stages of all of that,'' said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott.
As for individual investors, they have started to return to equity funds. Although they yanked a net $281 billion from stock mutual funds in 2011 and 2012, fund investors have poured a net $64 billion into stock portfolios this year through March 20.
Still, market analysts point out that even with these impressive inflows, bond mutual funds continue to pull in more money. ''The fact that bond funds still enjoy higher flows than equities is not indicative of a love affair with stocks,'' said Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance. ''This is far from euphoria -- this is just puppy love.''
MR. LUSCHINI said that while the market could yet experience a correction of 4 to 7 percent this year, a lack of market excesses leads him to believe that such a pullback would not kill the bull.
What would?
Historically, interest rate increases by the Fed have been a bull-slayer. But Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, is on record promising to keep short-term rates low until at least mid-2015. The central bank would need to see a rapidly improving job market or evidence that inflation is spiking before raising rates, market watchers say.
Yet ''there's very little inflation pressure today,'' said G. David MacEwen, chief investment officer for fixed income at American Century Investments.
For inflation pressures to start building, wage pressures would have to intensify and factory capacity would have to be stretched. That typically happens only after manufacturing capacity utilization hits 80 percent and the unemployment rate falls below 7 percent, said James T. Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS.
Right now, capacity utilization is at 78 percent and unemployment is at 7.7 percent. Still, Mr. Swanson said, it's not inconceivable that at today's pace of economic growth, the levels he described will be reached by year-end. That would usher in a much different market climate, perhaps one not so hospitable to an aging bull.
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



995 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Labor and Business Reach Deal on Immigration Issue

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Steven Greenhouse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The nation's top business and labor groups have reached an agreement on a guest worker program for low-skilled immigrants, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said on Saturday. The deal clears the path for broad immigration legislation to be introduced when Congress returns from its two-week recess in mid-April.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, convened a conference call on Friday night with Thomas J. Donohue, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main federation of labor unions, in which they agreed in principle on a guest worker program for low-skilled, year-round temporary workers. Mr. Schumer is one of eight senators from both parties who have been negotiating an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws. 
Pay for guest workers was the last major sticking point on a broad immigration package, and one that had stalled the eight senators just before the break. The eight senators still need to sign off on the agreement between the business and labor groups, the person with knowledge of the talks said.
''This issue has always been the deal breaker on immigration reform, but not this time,'' Mr. Schumer said.
The accord between the influential business and labor groups all but assured that the bipartisan group of senators would introduce their broad immigration legislation in the next few weeks. Their bill, which they have been meeting about several times a week since the November election, would provide a path to citizenship for the 11 million illegal immigrants already in the country. It would also take steps to secure the nation's borders.
A similar bipartisan group in the House has been meeting on and off for nearly four years, and hopes to unveil its own immigration legislation shortly.
The agreement resolved what the pay level should be for low-skilled immigrants -- often employed at hotels and restaurants or on construction projects -- who could be brought in during labor shortages.
Labor groups wanted to ensure that guest workers would not be paid less than the median wage in their respective industries, and the two sides compromised by agreeing that guest workers would be paid the higher of the prevailing industry wage as determined by the Labor Department or the actual employer wage.
Under the deal, guest workers would be allowed to pursue a path to citizenship and to change jobs after they arrived in the United States.
Another sticking point, involving the specific type of jobs that would be included in the guest worker program, was also resolved. Though low-skilled construction workers will be included in the visa program, construction unions persuaded the negotiators to exclude certain types of more skilled jobs -- like crane operators and electricians -- from the program, officials involved in the talks said.
According to officials with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the program would start at 20,000 visas, rising to 35,000 visas in the second year, 55,000 in the third and 75,000 in the fourth. In the fifth year, the program would expand or shrink based on the unemployment rate, the ratio of job openings to unemployed workers and various other factors. The agreement calls for a maximum of 200,000 guest visas granted each year.
One third of all visas available in any given year would go to businesses with fewer than 25 employees. No more than 15,000 visas per year would go to construction occupations.
Business groups, which had long been pushing to allow in 400,000 such guest workers each year, will get what they regard as an adequate number to meet the needs of employers.
Mr. Schumer also spoke on Saturday with Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, to update him on the agreement. President Obama is eager for an overhaul of the immigration system and has threatened to step in with his own plan if Congress does not move quickly with legislation of its own.
''The president continues to be encouraged by progress being made by the bipartisan group of senators,'' said Clark Stevens, a White House spokesman. ''We look forward to seeing language once it is introduced, and expect legislation to move forward as soon as possible.''
But Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and a member of the bipartisan group, sent a letter Saturday to Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, urging against ''excessive haste'' in considering the soon-to-be-introduced legislation. The support of voters will be crucial for passing any immigration law, Mr. Rubio said in the letter, and ''that support can only be earned through full and careful consideration of legislative language and an open process of amendments.''
Shortly before the conference call on Friday night between Mr. Schumer, Mr. Donohue and Mr. Trumka ended, one of the men suggested that the three of them get together soon for dinner; it had been, they all agreed, a long few weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, took part in negotiations to reach a deal on an immigration issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); RESTAURANTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); AFL-CIO (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



996 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: America the Innovative?

BYLINE: By EAMONN FINGLETON. 
The author of ''In the Jaws of the Dragon: America's Fate in the Coming Era of Chinese Hegemony.''

 BODY:
DUBLIN
CONGRESS might be at loggerheads, the unemployment rate might be too high and America's infrastructure might be crumbling -- but Americans of all political viewpoints comfort themselves with the notion that at least they lead the world in high technology and always will.
It's a pleasing, convenient idea. China can't outrun the United States, because it's not creative enough. It's authoritarian. Democracy is central to innovation, according to this comforting scenario. 
Although America has accounted for a sizable share of all technological innovations that have shaped our modern world, the wider historical evidence is disappointing for anyone who thinks political freedom is a fundamental precondition for innovation.
Few of the most creative societies of the ancient world were free. Certainly not Mesopotamia or Egypt. As for the spectacular creativity of early modern Europe, this somehow flourished alongside bloodcurdling efforts at mind control. More recently, both Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, with authoritarian cultures, punched well above their weight in innovation.
Even the evidence of America's own history undercuts the ''all you need is freedom'' story. Though from the start freedom was central to the country's political culture, Americans have not always ranked as technological leaders. America's technological coming of age was remarkably recent. As Ralph Gomory, former head of I.B.M.'s research department pointed out to me in an interview, America was noted up to the 1930s mainly as an inspired adapter of other nations' technologies -- a role similar to that of Japan and other East Asian nations in more recent times.
How do we explain America's sudden mid-20th-century ascent to technological glory? The credit goes not to freedom but to something more prosaic: money. With World War II, the United States government joined corporations in ramping up spending on R&D, and then came the cold war and the Soviets' launch of Sputnik in 1957, which gave further impetus to government-funded research. One result was Darpa, which helped develop the Internet.
Throughout history, rich nations have gotten to the future first. Their companies can afford to equip their tinkerers and visionaries with the most advanced materials, instruments and knowledge.
This raises an epochal question: as China becomes richer, is it destined to pass the United States as the world's most inventive nation? The question is all the more pertinent because many experts contend that America's inventive spirit is already flagging. As the Silicon Valley venture capitalist Peter Thiel put it to me in an interview, American innovation in recent decades has been remarkably narrowly based. ''It has been confined largely to information technology and financial services,'' he said. ''By contrast in transportation, for instance, we are hardly more advanced today than we were 40 years ago. The story is similar in treating cancer.''
Rob Atkinson, president of the Washington-based Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, points out that China is rapidly ramping up its research spending. ''The Chinese have the ability to throw a lot of resources at this, and some will stick to the wall,'' he says.
According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, China's research spending increased from 0.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2000 to 1.7 percent in 2009. Meanwhile, China's total number of researchers in R&D more than doubled from 2000 to 2007. During that period in the United States, the number of researchers in R&D grew less than 10 percent.
The Battelle Institute, based in Columbus, Ohio, predicts that China may pass the United States in R&D spending by 2023.
Meanwhile the evidence of international patent filings is looking increasingly ominous. According to data compiled by the World Intellectual Property Organization, the world's single most prolific filer of international patents as of 2011 was ZTE, a Chinese telecommunications corporation. Its filings were up an astounding fivefold from 2009. Another Chinese corporation, Huawei, moved up to third in the 2011 league table. The only United States corporation to make the Top 10 was Qualcomm. All this is the more troubling because United States patent law has now been drastically weakened. Congress has made it much harder for small American inventors to protect their intellectual property from infringement and theft.
Pat Choate, the author of ''Hot Property,'' a book on the theft of intellectual property, maintains that if the new patent regimen had existed when corporations like Apple and Microsoft first got going, they might never have made it out of the little leagues. Their patents would have been quickly infringed by predatory larger corporations, and rather than engage in unequal litigation battles against deep-pocketed and ruthless opponents, they could have felt forced to share their technology on concessionary terms.
Another concern is that American corporations have been moving their R&D operations offshore. According to the National Science Foundation, fully 27 percent of all employees in United States multinational corporations' research departments were based abroad as of 2009, up from 16 percent in 2004.
China seems to be benefiting from the trend. Both Intel and Applied Materials are developing major research facilities there. According to Paul Michel, a former federal appellate judge who is an authority on patent law, these operations will be larger than anything either corporation has in the United States. He adds: ''Most of the staff in these labs will be Chinese, and undoubtedly many of the resulting manufacturing jobs will be located in China.''
But if East Asian culture is not a serious hindrance to technological creativity -- and presumably neither Intel nor Applied Materials think it is -- why are East Asian scientists and engineers generally typecast as underachievers? Part of the explanation is that there are different kinds of technological creativity. Fundamental breakthroughs generate headlines and win Nobel Prizes, but as Ralph Gomory pointed out, it is the more mundane task of turning breakthroughs into affordable products that matters economically. East Asian corporations tend to focus on this second task, and though the details of their ''continuous improvement'' in production technology are rarely noted in the press, their success has been a driver of the region's spectacular enrichment in the last 60 years.
James Wilsdon, a British professor who has studied Chinese technological creativity, sees a parallel between China's scientific agenda and its sporting one. China ranked a distant 11th for the number of gold medals at the Seoul Olympics in 1988. Twenty years later, it topped the table.
''If this is what China can achieve in sport,'' he said, ''how quickly can it become a leader in science and innovation?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY POST TYPOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); COLD WAR (78%); HISTORY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



997 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CAPITAL IDEAS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: A Simple Way to Send Poor Kids to Top Colleges

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times and the author of a new e-single, ''Here's the Deal.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
THE packages arrived by mail in October of the students' senior year of high school. They consisted of brightly colored accordion folders containing about 75 sheets of paper. The sheets were filed with information about colleges: their admissions standards, graduation rates and financial aid policies.
The students receiving the packages were mostly high-achieving, low-income students, and they were part of a randomized experiment. The researchers sending the packets were trying to determine whether most poor students did not attend selective colleges because they did not want to, or because they did not understand that they could. 
The results are now in, and they suggest that basic information can substantially increase the number of low-income students who apply to, attend and graduate from top colleges.
Among a control group of low-income students with SAT scores good enough to attend top colleges -- but who did not receive the information packets -- only 30 percent gained admission to a college matching their academic qualifications. Among a similar group of students who did receive a packet, 54 percent gained admission, according to the researchers, Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford and Sarah E. Turner of the University of Virginia.
David Coleman, the president of the College Board, told me that he considered the results powerful enough to require changes at his organization, which conducts the SAT. ''We can't stand by as students, particularly low-income students, go off track and don't pursue the opportunities they have earned,'' Mr. Coleman said. The group may soon begin sending its own version of the experiment's information.
The experiment is part of a new wave of attention on the lack of socioeconomic diversity at top colleges. Mr. Coleman, who took over the College Board last fall, said his top priority was expanding opportunity. Another recent study, by Ms. Hoxby and Christopher Avery of Harvard, found that many low-income students had the high school grades and scores to thrive at the nation's 238 most selective colleges, but never applied. And the Supreme Court may soon further restrict race-based affirmative action, putting pressure on colleges to try a class-based version instead.
Together, these developments are creating a test of whether colleges mean what they say about meritocracy and diversity.
University officials have long trumpeted economic diversity as a goal. A few colleges, including Harvard and especially Amherst, have in fact significantly increased their ranks of low-income students. But at most top colleges, the student body -- while geographically, ethnically and religiously diverse -- remains dominated by affluent students.
The new research shows that large numbers of talented, well-prepared low-income teenagers exist. And many of them want to attend selective colleges, once they understand their options.
Ms. Hoxby and Ms. Turner designed the 40,000 information packets they mailed -- as well as follow-up material -- as a low-cost, customized version of the college counseling that upper-income students take for granted. The packets explained application deadlines and student qualifications at a range of colleges. Students also received coupons to waive application fees -- which had a particularly big effect. ''We wanted students to find schools for themselves,'' Ms. Hoxby said.
Perhaps most important, the packets presented a series of tables making clear that college is often not as expensive as many students and parents fear. Selective colleges frequently cost less for low-income students than local colleges, because the selective ones have the resources to offer bigger scholarships.
At the less-selective campuses in the University of Wisconsin system, for example, the average net annual cost for a year of tuition, room, board and fees in 2010-11 was almost $10,000 for families making less than $30,000, Ms. Turner said. At the flagship campus in Madison, by contrast, the equivalent net cost was $6,000. And at Harvard, such students paid only $1,300 a year.
Given all of the well-publicized scare stories about student debt, these comparisons can be surprising to adults who attended an elite college -- let alone to 17-year-olds who don't know anyone who has. No wonder that the information packets had an effect. Students who saw a packet submitted 48 percent more applications than the control group. They were about 40 percent more likely to apply to a college matching their academic qualifications.
Of course, many low-income students who graduate from less selective colleges do very well. The problem is that these colleges tend to have far lower graduation rates. Research by William G. Bowen, Michael S. McPherson and Matthew M. Chingos found that even top students who attended community colleges and local four-year colleges often failed to graduate, leaving them with much-diminished prospects.
They are likely to graduate from top colleges in far greater numbers than from the colleges many now attend. And the more affluent (and slightly less deserving) students they displace will move down only a notch on the college spectrum and still do very well.
''The little trickle down is not going to offset the big leap,'' Ms. Hoxby said.
The leap, however, is more expensive for colleges. Today, colleges can celebrate the many ways their students are diverse while also not busting their financial aid budgets. If the College Board and colleges themselves become more aggressive and creative about recruiting top low-income students, the financial aid demands will rise.
Optimists argue that a greater commitment to social mobility will also open up new fund-raising opportunities -- from foundations and eventually grateful, once-poor alumni. Anthony W. Marx, the president of the New York Public Library, who made economic diversity a priority while running Amherst, said that the effort led to more alumni giving. Colleges can also expand enrollment, minimizing the politically sensitive displacement of higher-income applicants.
Still, there will be trade-offs. Recruiting more top low-income students will probably force colleges to spend less elsewhere, be it on buildings, sports teams or undersubscribed academic fields.
But it is hard to think of a form of spending more consistent with top colleges' self-image and mission than scholarships for low-income students who have managed to overcome barriers and excel.
Not so long ago, many elite colleges resembled finishing schools for well-off white Protestant men. By any measure, the colleges have changed enormously. They are far more meritocratic than they once were. They just aren't yet as meritocratic as they claim to be.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



998 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2587 words

HEADLINE: Letting Down Our Guard

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
SAY you've come across a discount online retailer promising a steal on hand-stitched espadrilles for spring. You start setting up an account by offering your e-mail address -- but before you can finish, there's a ping on your phone. A text message. You read it and respond, then return to the Web site, enter your birth date, click ''F'' for female, agree to the company's terms of service and carry on browsing.
But wait: What did you just agree to? Did you mean to reveal information as vital as your date of birth and e-mail address?
Most of us face such decisions daily. We are hurried and distracted and don't pay close attention to what we are doing. Often, we turn over our data in exchange for a deal we can't refuse. 
Alessandro Acquisti, a behavioral economist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, studies how we make these choices. In a series of provocative experiments, he has shown that despite how much we say we value our privacy -- and we do, again and again -- we tend to act inconsistently.
Mr. Acquisti is something of a pioneer in this emerging field of research. His experiments can take time. The last one, revealing how Facebook users had tightened their privacy settings, took seven years. They can also be imaginative: he has been known to dispatch graduate students to a suburban mall in the name of science. And they are often unsettling: A 2011 study showed that it was possible to deduce portions of a person's Social Security number from nothing but a photograph posted online. He is now studying how online social networks can enable employers to illegally discriminate in hiring.
Mr. Acquisti, 40, sees himself not as a nag, but as an observer holding up a mirror to the flaws we cannot always see ourselves. ''Should people be worried? I don't know,'' he said with a shrug in his office at Carnegie Mellon. ''My role is not telling people what to do. My role is showing why we do certain things and what may be certain consequences. Everyone will have to decide for themselves.''
Those who follow his work say it has important policy implications as regulators in Washington, Brussels and elsewhere scrutinize the ways that companies leverage the personal data they collect from users. The Federal Trade Commission last year settled with Facebook, resolving charges that it had deceived users with changes to its privacy settings. State regulators recently fined Google for harvesting e-mails and passwords of unsuspecting users during its Street View mapping project. Last year, the White House proposed a privacy bill of rights to give consumers greater control over how their personal data is used.
Mr. Acquisti has been at the forefront, testifying in Congress and conferring with the F.T.C. David C. Vladeck, who until recently headed the agency's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Mr. Acquisti's research on facial recognition spurred the commission to issue a report on the subject last year. ''No question it's been influential,'' Mr. Vladeck said of Mr. Acquisti's work.
Companies, too, are interested; Microsoft Research and Google have offered Mr. Acquisti research fellowships. Over all, his research argues that when it comes to privacy, policy makers should carefully consider how people actually behave. We don't always act in our own best interest, his research suggests. We can be easily manipulated by how we are asked for information. Even something as simple as a playfully designed site can nudge us to reveal more of ourselves than a serious-looking one.
''His work has gone a long way in trying to help us figure out how irrational we are in privacy related decisions,'' says Woodrow Hartzog, an assistant professor of law who studies digital privacy at Samford University in Birmingham, Ala. ''We have too much confidence in our ability to make decisions.''
This is perhaps Mr. Acquisti's most salient contribution to the discussion. Solutions to our leaky privacy system tend to focus on transparency and control -- that our best hope is knowing what our data is being used for and choosing whether to participate. But a challenge to that conventional wisdom emerges in his research. Giving users control may be an essential step, but it may also be a bit of an illusion.
IF iron ore was the raw material that enriched the steel baron Andrew Carnegie in the Industrial Age, personal data is what fuels the barons of the Internet age. Mr. Acquisti investigates the trade-offs that users make when they give up that data, and who gains and loses in those transactions. Often there are immediate rewards (cheap sandals) and sometimes intangible risks downstream (identity theft). ''Privacy is delayed gratification,'' he warned.
Mr. Acquisti, lean and loquacious, grew up in Italy. His father, Giancarlo, was a banker by profession and a pianist on the side. Mr. Acquisti inherited his father's passion for music; last year he helped him write an opera about Margherita Luti, the woman believed to be the painter Raphael's lover and muse. Mr. Acquisti's other passion is motorcycle racing -- he rides a red Ducati -- though the pursuit of tenure, which he acquired last year, has lately kept him off the racing circuit.
He earned a bachelor's degree in economics in Rome and master's degrees in the subject from Trinity College in Dublin and the London School of Economics, and he became interested in the economics of privacy while studying for a doctorate in the interdisciplinary School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley.
He describes himself as an early adopter of technology. He dabbled in programming in his youth and was an early and avid user of Friendster and Second Life. He had planned to study the economics of artificial intelligence.
But as the Web matured and became more commercialized, he grew increasingly concerned about Web services that demanded real names. He questioned why companies should track the online behavior of users in order to tailor their ads.
These concerns led him to his one and only foray into a business enterprise. In 2002, with a pair of fellow graduate students at Berkeley, he made a cryptographic tool that would allow people to make purchases anonymously from e-commerce sites. He quickly realized, however, that even though consumers claimed to want privacy, they didn't want to pay for it. The start-up failed. His interest in privacy economics deepened.
To think about privacy more clearly, he argues, technologists need to understand human behavior better. With that end in mind, he will teach next fall in a new, interdisciplinary one-year master's program at Carnegie Mellon called privacy engineering.
''The technologist in me loves the amazing things the Internet is allowing us to do,'' he said. ''The individual who cares about freedom is concerned about the technology being hijacked, from a technology of freedom into a technology of surveillance.''
EARLY in his sojourn in this country, Mr. Acquisti asked himself a question that would become the guiding force of his career: Do Americans value their privacy?
At Carnegie Mellon, where he landed in 2003, he investigated the question with Facebook users. He started tracking a cohort of more than 5,000 people, most of them undergraduates at the time. He noticed that although people revealed more and more of their personal history -- responding to Facebook's prompts about whether, say, they had just had a baby or had voted -- they were also restricting who could see it. Over time, they were, on the whole, less likely to let ''everyone'' see their date of birth, for instance, and what high school they had attended.
Experiments like this have their limits and are open to different interpretations. This study, for instance, focused largely on college undergraduates who may have become cautious about who could see information about them as they approached graduation and prepared to enter the job market. But the Facebook study suggested at least that some people valued their privacy enough to seek out the social network's evolving settings and to block strangers from seeing what they had posted.
Aiming to learn how consumers determine the value of their privacy, Mr. Acquisti dispatched a set of graduate students to a suburban mall on the outskirts of Pittsburgh. To some shoppers, the students offered a $10 discount card, plus an extra $2 discount in exchange for their shopping data. Half declined the extra offer -- apparently, they weren't willing to reveal the contents of their shopping cart for a mere $2.
To other shoppers, however, the students offered a different choice: a $12 discount card and the option of trading it in for $10 if they wished to keep their shopping record private. Curiously, this time, 90 percent of shoppers chose to keep the higher-value coupon -- even if it meant giving away the information about what they had bought.
Why such contradictory responses?
To Mr. Acquisti, the results offered a window into the tricks our minds can play. If we have something -- in this case, ownership of our purchase data -- we are more likely to value it. If we don't have it at the outset, we aren't likely to pay extra to acquire it. Context matters.
It also matters how we define privacy. Conventional wisdom around Web privacy policies rests on the notion that consumers will make intelligent choices. At a recent industry conference in San Francisco, Erin Egan, the chief privacy officer for Facebook, defined privacy as ''understanding what happens to your data and having the ability to control it.''
Mr. Acquisti, however, suggests that control can be false comfort. In one of his most intriguing experiments, he summoned student volunteers to take an anonymous survey on vice.
The participants were asked whether they had ever stolen anything, lied or taken drugs. Some were told that their answers would be published in a research bulletin, others were asked for explicit permission to publish those answers, and still others were asked for permission to publish the answers as well as their age, sex and country of birth.
The results revealed the imperfection of human reasoning. Those who were offered the least control over who would see their answers seemed most reluctant to reveal themselves: among them, only 15 percent answered all 10 questions. Those who were asked for consent were nearly twice as likely to answer all questions. And among those who were asked for demographic information, every single person gave permission to disclose the data, even though those details could have allowed a complete stranger a greater chance of identifying the participant.
Mr. Acquisti took note of the paradox: fine-grained controls had led people to ''share more sensitive information with larger, and possibly riskier, audiences.'' He titled the paper, which he wrote with his colleagues Laura Brandimarte and George Loewenstein, ''Misplaced Confidences: Privacy and the Control Paradox.''
''What worries me,'' he said, ''is that transparency and control are empty words that are used to push responsibility to the user for problems that are being created by others.''
That sense of control can be undermined in other ways, too, principally by distractions: they apparently play the most powerful tricks of all.
In a study called ''Sleights of Privacy,'' Mr. Acquisti's subjects -- students at Carnegie Mellon -- were divided into two sets of two groups. Each group was asked to evaluate professors and were given additional questions about cheating. In the first set, half were told that only other students could see their answers; the others were told that faculty members, as well as students, could see the responses. As one might expect, the group with student-only viewers was more forthcoming than the group with student and faculty viewers. The participants seemed concerned about who could see their evaluations.
With the other set of students, Mr. Acquisti offered the same questionnaire -- but played a little trick. After again explaining the response rules and procedures, he asked an unrelated question: Would they like to sign up to receive information from a college network? That little distraction had an impact: This time, the two subgroups were almost equally forthcoming in their answers.
Had the distraction made them forget? No. In exit interviews, they remembered the rules, but they behaved as though they didn't. ''You remember somewhere in your brain,'' is how Mr. Acquisti put it, ''but you kind of pay less attention to it.''
We are constantly asked to make decisions about personal data amid a host of distractions, like an e-mail, a Twitter notification or a text message. If Mr. Acquisti is correct, those distractions may hinder our sense of self-protection when it comes to privacy.
Mr. Acquisti acknowledges being as easily distracted as the rest of us. He loses focus, darts from one task to the other and finds himself working all the time. His latest weapon against distraction is an iPad application, which lets him create a to-do list every morning and set timers for each task: 30 minutes for e-mail, 60 minutes to grade student papers, and so on.
Given his work, it is not surprising that he is cautious in revealing himself online. He says he doesn't feel compelled to post a picture of his meals on Instagram. He uses different browsers for different activities. He sometimes uses tools that show which ad networks are tracking him. But he knows he cannot hide entirely, which is why some people, he says, follow a policy of ''rational ignorance.'' He has a professional page on the Carnegie Mellon Web site -- if he didn't, how would he attract students or signal his academic legitimacy? -- that describes his research and includes a photograph. And it contains an intriguing bit of information: his interest in Nutella.
OUR browsing habits, search terms, e-mail communication -- even our offering of our ZIP codes at the supermarket checkout -- reveal bits of information that can be assembled by data companies, usually for the purpose of knowing what sorts of products we're most likely to buy. The online advertising industry insists that the data is scrambled to make it impossible to identify individuals.
Mr. Acquisti offers a sobering counterpoint. In 2011, he took snapshots with a webcam of nearly 100 students on campus. Within minutes, he had identified about one-third of them using facial recognition software. In addition, for about a fourth of the subjects whom he could identify, he found out enough about them on Facebook to guess at least a portion of their Social Security numbers.
The point of the experiment was to show how easy it is to identify people from the rich trail of data they scatter around the Web, including seemingly harmless pictures. Facebook can be especially valuable for identity thieves, particularly when a user's birth date is visible to the public.
Does that mean Facebook users should lie about their birthdays (and break Facebook's terms of service)? Mr. Acquisti demurred. He would say only that there are ''complex trade-offs'' to be made.
''I reveal my date of birth and hometown on my Facebook profile and an identity thief can reconstruct my Social Security number and steal my identity,'' he said, ''or someone can send me 'happy birthday' messages on the day of my birthday, which makes me feel very good.''
Facebook, for its part, has said that users can control who sees their information on the network.
Mr. Acquisti is on Facebook. He is photographed wearing a motorcycle helmet, which makes him a bit harder to identify.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Intriguing experiments by Alessandro Acquisti, a behavioral economist, suggest that people often reveal more than they mean to online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWINGS: Shoppers at a mall were offered $10 discount card -- and an extra $2 discount if they agreed to share their shopping data. Half declined the extra offer.
Others were offered a $12 discount card and the option of trading it in for a $10 card to keep their shopping record private. Ninety percent chose to trade privacy for $2.
Students were given survey questions about cheating. They were less forthcoming when they thought professors would see their answers.
 Students were given surveys about cheating, but distracted before they answered. They were more forthcoming than the first group. (DRAWINGS BY JASON LEE) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); WEB SITES (56%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



999 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''The U.S. addressed the problems of the financial crisis faster and with much more ferocity than the rest of the world.'' 
Edward M. Clissold, a market strategist at Ned Davis Research, after the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose above its 2007 peak to a record high. Stock markets in nearly every other large economy are still well below their previous records.
''They took a gamble on me when I was a 15-year-old.''
Nick D'Aloisio, 17, who last week sold his news-reading app, Summly, to Yahoo for a sum said to be in the tens of millions of dollars. Yahoo provided seed financing that let him hire employees and lease office space.
''You pay so much for your phones, it's incredible.''
John Legere, chief executive of T-Mobile, which plans to offer a contract-free smartphone plan that it says will be cheaper over all for consumers.
''As long as we keep milking cows, we never run out of gas.''
Gary Corbett, chief executive of Fair Oaks Farms in Indiana, which is turning cow manure into fuel for its delivery trucks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DAIRY FARMING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (65%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (53%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1000 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: King Cotton's Long Shadow

BYLINE: By WALTER JOHNSON

 BODY:
Last month, researchers at University College London made public a database that describes in illuminating detail one of the largest government bailouts in modern history. In 1833, Britain paid 20 million pounds to compensate 3,000 Caribbean slaveholders for the emancipation of their slaves. The payments constituted about 40 percent of total governmental expenditures that year. Conversation about the database in Britain centered on the recipients of these reparations for slaveholders, among them the ancestors of George Orwell, Graham Greene and David Cameron.
Apart from a few hundred slaveholders in the District of Columbia, no one in the United States received such compensation for the loss of their human property. According to Abraham Lincoln, at least, the cost of emancipation in the United States was to be reckoned in blood. In his Second Inaugural Address, Lincoln said he feared God would will the war to continue ''until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword.'' 
This reckoning of the value of slaves in blood and treasure raises an important, though too frequently overlooked, question. What was the role of slavery in American economic development?
The most familiar answer to that question is: not much. By most accounts, the triumph of freedom and the birth of capitalism are seen as the same thing. The victory of the North over the South in the Civil War represents the victory of capitalism over slavery, of the future over the past, of the factory over the plantation. In actual fact, however, in the years before the Civil War, there was no capitalism without slavery. The two were, in many ways, one and the same.
At the end of the 18th century, slavery in the United States was a declining institution. Tobacco planters in Virginia and Maryland had exhausted their soil and were switching to wheat. Wage labor was increasingly replacing slave labor in both the urban and the rural areas of the upper South.
And then came cotton.
The first part of the story is well known: the invention of the cotton gin in the 1790s and the concomitant rise of industrial capacity in Britain and the urban North made possible the profitable cultivation of cotton in a vast region of the lower South, one that stretched from South Carolina to Louisiana, which came to be called the ''Cotton Kingdom.''
Between 1803 and 1838, the United States, most famously personified by Andrew Jackson, fought a multifront war in the Deep South. In those years, the United States suppressed slave revolts and pacified whites still loyal to the European powers that had once controlled the region. These wars culminated in the ethnic cleansing of the Deep South. By the end of the 1830s, the Seminole, the Creek, the Chickasaw, the Choctaw and the Cherokee had all been ''removed'' to lands west of the Mississippi. Their expropriated land provided the foundation of the leading sector of the global economy in the first half of the 19th century.
In the 1830s, hundreds of millions of acres of conquered land were surveyed and put up for sale by the United States. This vast privatization of the public domain touched off one of the greatest economic booms in the history of the world up to that time. Investment capital from Britain, the Continent and the Northern states poured into the land market. ''Under this stimulating process, prices rose like smoke,'' the journalist Joseph Baldwin wrote in his memoir, ''The Flush Times of Alabama and Mississippi.''
Without slavery, however, the survey maps of the General Land Office would have remained a sort of science-fiction plan for a society that could never happen. Between 1820 and 1860 more than a million enslaved people were transported from the upper to the lower South, the vast majority by the venture-capitalist slave traders the slaves called ''soul drivers.'' The first wave cleared the region for cultivation. ''Forests were literally dragged out by the roots,'' the former slave John Parker remembered in ''His Promised Land.'' Those who followed planted the fields in cotton, which they then protected, picked, packed and shipped -- from ''sunup to sundown'' every day for the rest of their lives.
Eighty-five percent of the cotton Southern slaves picked was shipped to Britain. The mills that have come to symbolize the Industrial Revolution and the slave-tilled fields of the South were mutually dependent. Every year, British merchant banks advanced millions of pounds to American planters in anticipation of the sale of the cotton crop. Planters then traded credit in pounds for the goods they needed to get through the year, many of them produced in the North. ''From the rattle with which the nurse tickles the ear of the child born in the South, to the shroud that covers the cold form of the dead, everything comes to us from the North,'' said one Southerner.
As slaveholders supplied themselves (and, much more meanly, their slaves) with Northern goods, the credit originally advanced against cotton made its way north, into the hands of New York and New England merchants who used it to purchase British goods. Thus were Indian land, African-American labor, Atlantic finance and British industry synthesized into racial domination, profit and economic development on a national and a global scale.
When the cotton crop came in short and sales failed to meet advanced payments, planters found themselves indebted to merchants and bankers. Slaves were sold to make up the difference. The mobility and salability of slaves meant they functioned as the primary form of collateral in the credit-and-cotton economy of the 19th century.
It is not simply that the labor of enslaved people underwrote 19th-century capitalism. Enslaved people were the capital: four million people worth at least $3 billion in 1860, which was more than all the capital invested in railroads and factories in the United States combined. Seen in this light, the conventional distinction between slavery and capitalism fades into meaninglessness.
We are accustomed to reckoning the legacy of slavery in the United States in terms of black disadvantage. The centrality of slavery to the nation's economic development, however, suggests that any calculation of the nation's unpaid debt for slavery must include a measure of the wealth it produced, of advantage as well as disadvantage. The United States, as W. E. B. Du Bois wrote, was ''built upon a groan.''
Walter Johnson, a professor of history and African and African-American Studies at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''River of Dark Dreams: Slavery and Empire in the Cotton Kingdom.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prospective European buyers haggle over African slaves at an auction in the Caribbean, circa 1820. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMPIRE/UNIVERSAL IMAGES GROUP, VIA GETTY IMAGES) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (91%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); COTTON GINNING (69%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (68%); COTTON FARMING (68%); TOBACCO FARMING (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

 
