

401 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2110 words

HEADLINE: In Business for the Fun of It

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

DATELINE: NEPTUNE 

 BODY:
JERSEY pride often presents itself in the spoken equivalent of a pinstripe suit, with stiff-collared suburbanites puncturing arguments that this state -- and not Mississippi or Alabama -- is the true heir to the title ''armpit of the nation.'' After all, consider Princeton and Saddle River and the Far Hills.
 Yeah, well, not so fast.
 Explain to your son at Lawrenceville -- he draped in Brooks Brothers and Abercrombie -- about the company in, of all places, Neptune. You know, where they manufacture jumping snakes, whoopee cushions and dribble glasses. 
 The S.S. Adams Company -- housed in a stately old building that might be mistaken for the headquarters of something more or less official on the industrial side of this township, just south of Asbury Park -- has been stealing the show in the manufacture of rubber chocolates, sneeze powder and fake vomit worldwide since the advent of each of those useful things, plus dozens more, in the three generations it has been operating here. 
 Tour the drafty 20,000-square-foot warehouse, which could have been yanked from an old filmstrip about the Industrial Revolution, and the assembly lines cranking out wise-guy wonders and joyfully juvenile doodads seem never to cease. If Willy Wonka had a brother in the prank and magic business, his song-and-dance numbers would have been staged here. 
 Take the scene on a recent Thursday: In the middle of the main workplace -- a cavernous, high-ceilinged affair -- three patient-looking women wearing bandanas sit at a circular station where a belt pumps around decks of trick playing cards in need of hand-inserted instructions and plastic packaging.
 A few hundred feet away, a man named Roberto, who is the company's tool-and-die man, guides a well-worn machine that hollows out pennies -- real United States currency -- one by one for a magic trick the company catalog calls Coin Con.
 Around the corner from him is a rectangular steel work table holding dozens of cans stamped ''Fancy Salted Mixed Nuts.'' It is suspiciously quiet, as if waiting for an unsuspecting snacker to wander up despite this most obvious setting and get a spring-loaded snake in the face.
 One more turn leads to the desk of a co-owner of this madness, Chris Adams, who is the grandson of the founder, Soren (Sam) Adams. Introduce yourself, and he will not zap your outstretched hand with one of the easily concealed joy buzzers that Sam invented in the early 1930's. Still, his office is a repository of such relics as advertising circulars from the 1940's as well as vats of invisible ink and tubs of sour popcorn.
 As for Mr. Adams, he is a tall, 43-year-old, matter-of-fact presence who signed on to steer the company through its third generation in 1987 after graduating from Cornell University and growing disillusioned in his attempts to find a career.
 His father, Bud Adams, who died at age 83 in 2001, was president of the company when his son finally came into the business. For several years, the young Mr. Adams also had the help of his half-brother, Joseph Adams Jr., who was the bookkeeper and office manager. But when Joseph Jr. died at age 53 in 1993, it became clear that the young Mr. Adams would have to steer the company into the new millennium. 
 These days, Mr. Adams offers a clear-eyed though somewhat sad commentary on the business of funny business. ''We all enjoy it,'' he says. ''But I was born into this job. It chose me. I didn't choose it.''
 To report that S.S. Adams -- established as the Cachoo Sneeze Powder Company in 1906 in Plainfield, where Sam Adams sold thousands of 10-cent packets of his mucus-membrane tickle powder from a single chair and card table in his bedroom -- has fallen on hard times would be to pick up the story 50 years late.
 Mr. Adams's grandfather was able to outfox competitors during his reign with little more than an enterprising spirit and a quick wit, coming up with itch powder on the heels of the pirating of his sneeze powder, and then stink bombs, exploding cigars, squirting roses -- in all, gags for which he eventually secured 37 patents.
 Of course, the first Mr. Adams was not faced with the specter of cheap overseas labor.
 ''It's nothing new,'' Mr. Adams said. ''It's just something we've had to deal with that's been going on for decades now. And we've still been able to manufacture. We still have things they haven't been able to knock off. If we're a dinosaur, then everybody's a dinosaur. One country in the world can't do all the world's manufacturing. Something's going to change.''
 Closer to home, something already has. If the business maneuvers instituted by Mr. Adam's pioneering grandfather, described in an autobiography called ''S.S. Adams: High Priest of Pranks'' by William V. Rauscher (1878 Press Company, 2002) laid the groundwork for a novelty empire, the current Mr. Adams is repaving with ambitions less likely to be associated with a jokester.
 Gone are designs on watching the Adams name spawn national crazes, though it did exactly that after Sam moved the company from Plainfield to the Shore in the early 1920's. According to an article that appeared in a 1946 issue of The Saturday Evening Post about the company's rise: ''Church services, school sessions, theater performances and political meetings were thrown into disorder by clouds of sneeze powder. Newspapers wrote editorials against it. Fights in saloons started as a result of it.'' 
 Of course, it was the invention of the joy buzzer, says a Scribners magazine article from 1941, that ''established Sam as the Ford of his industry.''
 Instead, Mr. Adams, who watched sales nosedive from $2 million a year in the early 1990's to $1 million last year despite the advent of ''plop'' -- windshield-ready fake bird droppings -- and a number of other items, has taken on a partner. 
 Mr. Adams turned to David Haversat, a 26-year-old businessman from Connecticut with a calm demeanor and a dapper, mischievous air that calls to mind a Leonardo DiCaprio film character. 
 Where Mr. Adams has to be pressed to recall good times around the factory, Mr. Haversat's enthusiasm swells with every item as he walks the factory floor performing demonstrations. Not that Mr. Adams can not recall some unusual and amusing moments -- like the time his father was experimenting with an inedible hot candy and several unsuspecting workers asked for more instead of spitting it out, or when the United Parcel Service called to ask that jumping snakes be packaged differently after a driver was accidentally victimized.
 And Mr. Haversat takes obvious pleasure in relating the company's history, touching on Bud Adams's perfection of his father's joy buzzer into the joltingly durable, 80's-era Super Buzzer, which helped fend off foreign competitors in crucial years. He seems convinced that the footsteps he is tracing are the right ones. 
 ''There's nowhere else I'd rather be, nothing else I'd rather be doing,'' he said.
 Before joining up with Mr. Adams last July, Mr. Haversat had to settle for collecting Adams memorabilia.
 ''I got an Adams magic set at the age of 7 for Christmas,'' he said, referring to a kit with implements and instructions for performing basic tricks that is still manufactured. ''I wouldn't put it down, and that's what sparked my interest. I'd make my parents take me around to all these high-end magic shops, and I became an amateur magician. Later I got into the pranks. I'd put fake spiders on my Aunt Vivian's head at family picnics.''
 Collecting became something of an obsession for Mr. Haversat, who bid on and feverishly acquired items from the S.S. Adams estate in 2000. Through years of performing at kids' parties, adult parties and fairs, and after opening his own magic boutique, the See More Magic Shop in Seymour, Conn., while attending Post University in Waterbury, he had come to equate the Adams name with unsurpassed quality. 
 He dismissed similar merchandise made in China, saying it ''can be cheap and chintzy.''
 ''We're known for being state-of-the-art,'' Mr. Haversat said. ''Quality is where we've got them beat. It shows up in our packaging, the authentic look of some of our products and their durability.'' 
 Witness the jumping snakes in the old-fashioned peanut brittle and mixed nuts packages, as well as the Adams-Haversat innovation -- a 30-inch snake that leaps from a more modern-looking yogurt container (''Leave this in your refrigerator,'' the catalog instructs.).
 Serious clowns, Mr. Haversat intimated, settle for nothing less. 
 Trade secrets, protected with a suspiciousness bordering on paranoia, also account for the company's longevity. 
 ''One of the things we have that nobody has been able to copy is Mystic Smoke,'' he said, circling the factory's wood floors to where boxes full of tubes with viscous goo sat ready for packaging. When rubbed between the thumb and forefinger, as he displayed, Mystic Smoke sends clouds of smoke to rising from one's hand -- good for laughs, perhaps, when being presented with a steep bill.
 These days, the company employs 20 workers, down from 60 a decade ago, who pumped out 300,000 tubes of Bud Adams's heat-free invention last year, the company's top seller. (''People always want to know whether Mystic Smoke is safe,'' said Mr. Haversat.)
 Joy buzzers and jumping snakes run a close second. Disney is the company's biggest customer, Mr. Haversat said, with most Adams products sold at theme parks rather than retail outlets. Other suppliers include the Vermont Company Store catalog and independent toy and magic shops. On occasion, there is the more unexpected client. 
 ''We get a lot of interesting requests for the gags,'' said Mr. Haversat.
 Last year, he said, ''we had a guy from a Fortune 500 Company approach us -- I won't say which company -- and he wanted to buy a ton of sneeze powder to use at a big meeting.''
 Even ''Saturday Night Live'' turns to Adams for the disappearing ink it uses in some skits. 
 Mr. Haversat, who aligns himself more with the magic side of the company than the prank side -- he is an unabashed card-carrying member of the International Brotherhood of Magicians -- nonetheless recognizes the value of a good gag. So do customers, apparently, since the gags outsell the magic tricks by two to one.
 Sucker's soap -- ''you put it in the bathroom and you never get a lather,'' he explained -- is his favorite, although he said he also enjoys the dribble glass, invented by Sam, in which the person gets soaked when he tries to take a drink, and candies that turn the mouth blue. ''Kids love those,'' he said. ''Anything that turns their mouth colors.'' 
 Mr. Haversat's desk, separated from Mr. Adams's by a single narrow cabinet storing Sam's original cloth-covered snakes in a rusty tin, is the most outwardly obvious sign that he is Mr. Adams's equal partner. But there is something in the authoritative way he paces the capacious, well-trod building that says his outsider status, even before the deal, was in name only.
 Already, Mr. Haversat has taken it upon himself to develop new tricks, which he discussed in the most secretive of terms, as if an overseas manufacturer were hiding around the corner. And while Mr. Adams's faith in the company's future may have been shaken by decades of undercutting -- ''the business needs new inspiration,'' he said -- Mr. Haversat's dedication matches that of many of the employees. One worker has been with the company since the 1950's, and many are in their second and third decades with S.S. Adams.
 So despite the drop-off in business in recent years, Mr. Haversat registers no imminent threat. "Business is good,'' he said. ''When you think about it, S.S. Adams has been through two world wars, the stock market crash of 1929, the Great Depression, tremendous overseas competition, 9/11 and a changing economy. Still, it continues. It would be my hope to eventually pass the business on to someone who loves it as much as I do.'' 
 For now, Mr. Adams -- who assumes his grandfather would be ''real pleased'' by the partnership with Mr. Haversat -- seems certain that the company will remain in New Jersey, ''where we've always been.'' 
 Indeed, history reveals that his grandfather took inspiration from state officials here. 
 ''The most brilliant man I know, ex-Governor Hoffman of New Jersey, was one of my best customers,'' Sam Adams told The Saturday Evening Post in 1946. ''One summer when the governor was staying at Sea Girt, he bought more than 200 of my Pop Ball Surprises'' -- an exploding gift-wrapped package -- ''and he worked the gag all summer on some of the most prominent people in the political and social world.''
 So much for New Jersey's proud history.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Haversat recently joined Chris Adams, heir to the S.S. Adams Company, which manufacturers the ubiquitous pranks and magic tricks. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
S.S. Adams is situated in an oddly official-looking building in Neptune.
 At the S.S. Adams Company, gags and magic tricks are assembled and packaged on the factory floor, left. Cathy Kokkinias, below right, works on canes. At left are two popular items, a squirt camera and joy buzzer. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (69%); OFFICE FURNITURE (69%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: S S ADAMS CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



402 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Memory of Activist Sister Is Now Brother's Mission

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, March 19 

 BODY:
David Stang was retired and thought that the days ahead would be marked by the easy tread of his gardening and his books. But the killing last month of his sister Dorothy, a Roman Catholic nun in Brazil who had made powerful enemies in the Amazon Basin working on behalf of the homeless, turned that plan upside down.
 Now Mr. Stang is on a mission to make sure the world remembers his sister correctly. She was not by any means, he said, a sweetly pious nun who had retreated to a life of prayer and contemplation. She was tough, smart and intensely political, and it was precisely her fervent earthly work on behalf of the poor that got her killed, he said. 
 ''None of this ooey-gooey little nun bit,'' Mr. Stang said, pointing a finger down his throat in a mock expression of gagging as he spoke. ''She was like a Mack truck.''
 Last month, Mr. Stang, 67, flew to Brazil from his home near Colorado Springs to try to trace his sister's final days. He was accompanied by a documentary film crew and a horde of Brazilian journalists. His arrival in Para, a state in the Amazon jungle known for corruption, where Sister Dorothy worked and was shot in front of witnesses on Feb. 12, became an event for the news media. 
 This month -- somewhat to his own surprise, he said -- he barged into a meeting of local officials in Para and confronted them, demanding to know why his sister had not been protected. The Brazilian news media captured it all and made Mr. Stang a star of the nightly news. 
 ''I figured if we've got the press, we might as well use them,'' he said. 
 A tangled history involving Mr. Stang and the Catholic Church figures largely in his mission.
 Mr. Stang, who was working as a nursing home administrator when he retired, spent 11 years as a Catholic priest. In the 1960's he was a missionary in Africa. But he quit the priesthood 30 years ago, partly in anger over the church's refusal to ordain female priests. 
 Sister Dorothy, a naturalized Brazilian who was one of nine siblings from a Catholic household in Ohio, became energized in the 1960's by the winds of change then sweeping through the church about administering to the poor. Faith was still important, said the new doctrine, which came to be known as liberation theology, but so were economic and social improvement, and advocacy.
 In the 1980's, the church began backing away from liberation theology as the leadership under Pope John Paul II became uncomfortable with having church workers push social agendas that could ally them with the political left. But David Stang said his sister never did.
 How his sister is remembered, said Mr. Stang, a lean man with a ready smile and a biting wit, is bound up with politics and theocracy, family history and faith. 
 Sister Dorothy was shot four times in the chest and head by a pair of gunmen while visiting a remote rural encampment near the Trans-Amazon Highway in Para State. She had been working with peasants who had clashed with illegal loggers.
 Four people have been arrested, and Brazil's attorney general has made a formal request that the suspects be prosecuted by federal officials because local justice is unlikely. 
 Mr. Stang said his sister, who was 73 when she was killed, was a martyr to the faith. She apparently knew her killers and the danger they presented and was reading aloud from her Bible, witnesses said, when she was shot. But he said that church recognition of Sister Dorothy as a martyr was unlikely because of the bruising, advocacy-draped political life that she had led in Brazil for 36 years. Her reputation for riding a motorcycle and for camping overnight outside the offices of local officials who refused to see her, he said, is probably too much associated with discredited church goals of the past. 
 ''So that's part of my journey, too,'' he said. ''I'm not going to let them do apocryphal stuff on her, sanitizing her and saying she was this oh very holy woman.'' 
 A scholar who has written widely about religious and political life in Latin America, Daniel H. Levine of the University of Michigan, said he thought that Mr. Stang had a legitimate worry about whether faith or works would be his sister's epitaph.
 ''Will she be a hot potato?'' asked Professor Levine, a political scientist and director of the university's Latin American and Caribbean studies program. ''Probably.''
 ''Liberation theology fell out of fashion, but that doesn't meant that people like her aren't still out there,'' he said.
 Mr. Stang, who married and had four children after leaving the priesthood, said that if he were younger he would think about taking up where his sister left off. But the physical demands of life in the Amazon seem too daunting, he said.
 He does plan to return to Brazil next month and will return again, he said, for the trial of those accused of killing his sister. 
 ''I thought I'd be tending my garden now,'' he said. ''But you do what you have to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Brazilian flag was placed on Dorothy Stang's coffin. Born in Ohio, she was a naturalized Brazilian and fought for the poor. (Photo by Paulo Santos/Associated Press)
David Stang, above, whose sister Dorothy, below, a nun, was killed last month in Brazil. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); WRITERS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); NURSING HOMES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (75%) COLORADO, USA (75%) BRAZIL (97%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



403 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Man Confessed to Sex Assaults Of More Children, Police Say

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
The unemployed mechanic charged with raping and sodomizing seven children in Queens has confessed to attacking more children, a law enforcement official said yesterday.
 The man, Michael Flory, 48, of West Hempstead, N.Y., was arraigned late Friday on multiple charges of rape, criminal sexual acts (a new law-enforcement term for sodomy) and sexual abuse. 
Judge Fernando Camacho of Queens Criminal Court scheduled a hearing date in April and ordered Mr. Flory held without bail.
 The charges relate to the sexual assaults of five girls and two boys between 7 and 11 years old, including some who lived near, and played in, Mr. Flory's former home in College Point, where he lived before moving to West Hempstead on Long Island. Mr. Flory shared that home with his wife, their 4-year-old daughter and the 11-year-old son and 8-year-old daughter of Mr. Flory's wife.
 The authorities have said they were investigating whether Mr. Flory had abused any of those three children and whether his wife was aware of the sexual abuse. They have also said they were circulating Mr. Flory's picture in other places he lived, including Whitestone, Queens; East Orange, N.J.; and Danbury, Conn., to see if there were victims in those communities.
 Yesterday, a law enforcement official said that those questions remained unanswered but that Mr. Flory had spoken of additional victims beyond the seven children he was charged with assaulting.
 ''The defendant admitted the crimes in a statement to the police,'' the official said, ''and indicated that there were other victims as well.'' The authorities are still not clear how many children might be involved, the official added. 
 Steven Goldenberg, a lawyer for Mr. Flory, did not return calls seeking comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (95%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BAIL (72%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



404 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: Watching the World Go By

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

 BODY:
THE best thing about the view from Stephanie Close's front porch in Rowayton, she said, is that it always changes.
 In winter, the vista is one of stark beauty, bare tree limbs reaching to the sky. Summer brings horizons of lapis lazuli at sunrise, burnt umber at sunset. Toward evening, heron croaks roll off the tidal marsh separating her neighborhood from Bell Island, while sparrows and chickadees battle for position at a feeder that hangs from a tree a few feet away.
 The first jogger runs by at 5 in the morning, and before the day is over the porch has been passed by dozens of bikers, parents with strollers, and rollerbladers. 
 ''In the summer the spartina grass out there gets so green, it's like Ireland,'' Ms. Close said. ''With the views you have here, you'd be crazy not to put a porch on.''
 When Stephanie and Bill Close bought the home in 2001, their raised ranch had no porch. But they wanted one, and in 2002 they had a porch added, joining a trend that is affecting construction both new and old. Homeowners around the state are demanding front porches, asking architects to design them, builders to add them and, for the handy, putting a porch on their old house themselves. The front porch, once a stable of the New England landscape that went out of favor after World War II, is making a comeback.
 ''We've gone through contemporary designs in the 70's, 80's and 90's, and now we're getting back to front porches,'' said John Johnson, owner of Blue Line Builders in South Kent. He said more front porches were being built in his area than anytime in the last 30 years.
 For some 90 years, from the Gilded Age to World War II, no new Connecticut home was complete without a front porch, where residents would sit, watch their neighbors pass by and swap stories with those who lingered. Then television and air conditioning prompted a more insular direction. People came off their front porches and new houses were being built without them. In the 1980's came further erosion of the front-porch tradition as the McMansion craze pushed builders not to waste outdoors the precious space allowed by zoning that could be used for grander living quarters inside.
 ''What you saw a lot of times was that the zoning was restrictive'' and discouraged the building of front porches, said Greg Ugalde, president of the Home Builders Association of Connecticut and of his own contracting firm, T & M Building in Torrington. ''That's still the case today, but people are shying away from super-large construction, and more toward fancier, more detailed work. Size is no longer the rule for everything.''
 As interest rates remain low and realty prices climb, more people in Rowayton are opting for porches, said Wendell Anderson, who built the Close home, a move in keeping with the village character of the town, which is part of Norwalk. ''We'd like to be less urban and more sub,'' he said.
 The Closes opted for three porches, one traditional ground-level porch that opens from their living room and has room enough for the couple to sit and read, and two smaller upstairs porches lighted up at night with decorative star-shaped light fixtures.
 Jay Bright, an architect in New Haven, calls front porches ''a nostalgia feature,'' a roofed space from where the outdoors can be enjoyed rain or shine. Bruce Beinfield, a Norwalk architect, said the front porch fits in well with today's throwback aesthetic in evidence in Rowayton and elsewhere.
 ''You think of Mayberry in 'The Andy Griffith Show,' and the porch being a place where you can wave as people go by,'' Mr. Beinfield said.
 In Greenwich's downtown area, front porches are cropping up around Milbank Avenue and other side streets around Greenwich Avenue. Similarly, front porches are reportedly more popular in other smaller-zoned neighborhoods in lower Fairfield County, like Southport village in Fairfield.
 Because these homes are often close to the street, Roger Ferris, an architect of Westport, said they require more in the way of a buffer than simply curtains on the windows.
 ''When you start to design a house in those sort of urban-suburban areas, you go back to historical motifs and find porches,'' he said. ''It was a space that mediated between the public and private realm, an enjoyable space to sit and enjoy watching the outside world. It's not inside or outside, but its own exquisite zone.''
 To the north, in Litchfield County, front porches are part of a different aesthetic, that of the traditional farmhouse: ''Porches up here tend to be used more as a place to relax, enjoy the view, rather than the neighborly porch where people can walk by,'' said Patrick Mulberry, an architect of Cornwall.
 For years, the Litchfield County porch had been supplanted by more contemporary designs, replications of the classic pre-porch Colonial house, and McMansions.
 There are signs of change, though, like Peter and Bente Busby's home deep in the woods of Cornwall, a classic farmhouse design that, Mr. Busby, a professional sculptor, had built 12 years ago without a porch. The result, he said, looked like ''a Monopoly house.''
 ''After seven, eight years, I got more money, had the time, so I built a porch,'' he said. ''It's a whole porch complex. When I added an addition a couple of years ago, I created another 30 feet of porch by extending the front porch to the sides.''
 The result is a wraparound porch running 56 feet from end to end, which has been used for everything from tea-sipping at dusk to a play area for the Busbys' three children. There is even a hot tub down a flight of stairs.
 ''We had a party one summer where a friend came up and said, 'I have serious porch envy,''' Mr. Busby recalled. ''Next year, they built a porch on their house very similar to ours.''
 Not everyone sings the praises of front porches. Jim Terrell, who owns a construction company in Cornwall, said they are just a fad.
 ''It's more from a nostalgia for a day where people had time to sit on front porches,'' he said. ''Nobody has time to do that anymore. I think of it as a tacked-on affect for nostalgia, rather than real architecture with some connection with function.''
 Just a few miles south in Kent, local zoning commissioners are in the early stages of preparing new ''village-district'' regulations that would give builders allowances that encourage front porches on homes, such as an automatic variance on footprints or coverage ratios.
 ''Front porches are part of our architectural identification,'' said Wesley Wyrick, a local architect and commission member.
 Front porches have also been popular along the coastline, though Barry Svigals, an architect from New Haven, said some of those front porches have been gravitating to the sides and rear of homes. 
 ''One of the pieces that has popped up is the screen porch, or what you call the Florida room or three-season room,'' he said. ''They allow people to breathe the air. There are a lot of people who don't like air conditioning much and want to use it sparingly, even in more wealthy homes.'' 
 A front porch may not work with every home style, said Matthew Schoenherr, who runs Z: Architecture in Branford.
 ''With a certain style of house, a front porch is not appropriate,'' he said. ''With a Colonial, for example, a front porch changes the style. Often with those, you put protective coverings like porticos, so arriving guests can be sheltered.''
 Yet, there are architects using porches with nontraditional house styles. In her remodeling handbook ''Updating Classic America: Capes,'' Jane Gitlin, an architect of Westport, wrote that porches are not traditionally associated with archetypical Cape designs, but are ''a natural fit nevertheless.''
 ''It depends on the style of the house,'' she said. ''Some lend themselves to front porches, some don't.''
 Ms. Gitlin's firm, Huelster Design Studio, has challenged conventions by marrying front porches with other home styles, even the Colonial.
 Colonial farmers got their fill of the great outdoors, and their simple center-hall houses were designed to conserve heat generated from interior fireplaces, not provide a site for basking in starlight. The Colonial house, with its stark saltbox lines, seems a poor match for a porch.
 But in the middle of Stamford, less than a mile off High Ridge Road, Cynthia Reeder and Steve Kamen, clients of Huelster, have just finished having a wraparound porch built along the front and sides of their modern-built Colonial home.
 The porch is massive, projecting 10 feet out in front and 12 feet along the sides. Adirondack chairs and chaises point outward at a landscape bristling with sugar maples. Ms. Reeder, a writer, and Mr. Kamen, an arborist, said the porch was big enough until they started furnishing it. ''Now it's shrinking,'' he said.
 Mr. Kamen wanted the porch because of childhood memories of Nantucket. When they first looked for a house in the area, the couple asked for one with a porch, and found themselves stymied: realtors couldn't meet the request. So they decided to buy a house and build a porch on it.
 The Colonial fit the bill. A small house on a lot well over an acre in size, it could accommodate a large porch without violating zoning. The porch includes such features as stereo speakers built into the ceiling and a two-toned banister rail. In winter, it has the feeling of a ski chalet; in summer, of sleep-away camp.
 ''You think it's a little thing to build a porch,'' Ms. Reeder said. ''But you have a lot of big decisions: 'What kinds of handles on doors? Wood screens or metal screens?' We wanted to keep the feel of the original house, trying to match the new wood to the old wood.''
 Some architects claim the front porch's renewed popularity may be a sign the bigger-is-better philosophy of homebuilding is on the wane.
 ''There's been a vein in the custom home market leading to modern interpretations of classic home design, where they have picked up on the idea of porches maybe more than the big home designs,'' Mr. Mulberry said. ''Here in Litchfield County, you have sophisticated metropolitan residents looking for a retreat with more charm and romance than your McMansions of old.''
 Mr. Ugalde said people in New England generally liked front porches, but it has been a question whether or not they are feasible.
 ''Do you use the building footprint for porches, or put the extra cost in other amenities, like bonus rooms, finished basements, sunrooms?'' he asked. ''Now people are willing to make the tradeoff. Front porches are more a part of the equation now than before.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cynthia Reeder and Steve Kamen on their porch, also at left, in Stamford. Below, the Busby home in Cornwall, and Camilla Busby on the porch the family built. Bottom, Stephanie and Bill Close. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)
(Photographs, left and above, by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
 (Photograph by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



405 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Don't Worry About the Fed. Oil? That's Another Story.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE Dow Jones industrial average has stumbled on its way to 11,000, tripped up by record oil prices, burgeoning fears of inflation, worries about earnings growth and a jump in longer-term interest rates.
 Two weeks ago the Dow was less than 60 points away from 11,000, a summit it has not reached in almost four years. Now it is more than 370 points away and having trouble regaining its footing. Interest rates and corporate profits are not the problem, however. Earnings are friendlier than this year's growth implies and interest rates remain fairly low. But oil and inflation may stand in the way, for now, of another run at 11,000. 
 Oil prices had been dismissed for months as a serious drag on economic growth or an upward push on inflation. But last week crude oil rose to a record of $56.72 a barrel and gasoline jumped to $2.10 a gallon, just short of a record. General Motors' surprise reduction in its earnings forecast raised questions about the strength of consumer spending. So energy prices now look like a two-headed threat.
 It is not clear whether slower economic growth from reduced consumer spending or higher inflation is most likely to bedevil the markets. But it is now more likely that one or the other will. 
 The rise in gasoline prices in March could add 0.3 percentage points to the Consumer Price Index for the month, lifting the overall index by 0.5 percent, said David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley. That would mean consumer prices rose 3.1 percent over the previous 12 months. 
 What Federal Reserve policy makers have to say about oil, inflation and slower economic growth will be important for the stock market. They meet Tuesday and are expected to raise their benchmark short-term interest rate a quarter of a percentage point, to 2.75 percent, the seventh quarter-point increase since June.
 The statement they issue will be looked at to see if policy makers still play down the impact of oil on inflation and growth, as they have in the past.
 In the statement after the Sept. 21 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, for example, policy makers touched on oil as a drag on growth and as an inflationary threat -- but didn't worry much about it.
 ''After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly,'' the statement said. ''Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months.''
 What policy makers say in the minutes of this meeting may be more revealing.
 It is likely that the stock market will not pick up steam until oil prices recede, which is why investors have to keep their eyes on crude. But there's no need to worry so much about earnings or interest rates.
 Earnings growth is still positive, despite the sharp drop off in the growth rate of profits from last year. The reporting season for first-quarter earnings gets into high gear with Intel's report, scheduled for April 19.
 The current forecast is that profits for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index will increase 7.5 percent compared to the first quarter of 2004, according to Thomson Financial. That is down from 20 percent growth in the fourth quarter and 20.2 percent for all of last year.
 Slower growth is not worrisome because overall earnings for the companies in the S.&P. are still strong. Total earnings in the first quarter will be about $161 billion, just above the quarterly average of $158 billion for last year. The growth rate is lower because the first quarter's earnings are compared to a base of $149 billion in the first quarter of 2004. The average for comparison of 2004 quarterly results was $129 billion.
 In addition, a slowdown in earnings does not necessarily translate into bad market performance. Earnings fell from a growth rate of 23.3 percent in the first quarter of 1995 to 5.5 percent in the third quarter of 1996, while the S.&P. 500 climbed 49.7 percent. 
 INVESTORS may also be worried about the higher-than-average ratio of negative to positive pre-announcements on earnings for the first quarter. That ratio was 2.3 as of Friday, according to Thomson Financial, just above the long-term average of 2.
 But a look at history shows that there is no correlation between an above-average negative pre-announcement ratio and stock market performance in the next three to six months.
 As for interest rates, there isn't much more to say than this: the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note has surged to 4.51 percent from 3.99 percent on Feb. 9, but is still below its level in June, when the Fed began raising its benchmark short-term interest rate. 
 So the economy and the stock market are still getting a helping hand from the nation's central bank.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Flirting With 11,000''Graph tracks the daily closing of Dow Jones industrials since 2001.FRIDAY: 10,629.67(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



406 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; READING FILE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Teddy, the Man's Man

 BODY:
Nearly a century after he left office, Theodore Roosevelt retains a grip on the nation's political imagination, with admirers on both sides of the aisle. But none seem quite comfortable with the core of T.R.'s identity, his ''manliness,'' according to Harvey Mansfield, writing in the March issue of The New Criterion.
 T.R. appeals to some conservatives today for his espousal of big government and national greatness, and all conservatives rather relish his political incorrectness. As a reforming progressive, he used to appeal to liberals, but nowadays liberals are put off by the political incorrectness that conservatives rather sneakily enjoy. 
 Nothing was more obvious than Roosevelt's manliness, because he made such a point of it, not only in his own case but also as necessary for human progress. It was being a progressive that made him so eager to be manly. Here is gristle to chew for liberals and conservatives, both of whom -- except for the feminists -- have abandoned manliness mostly out of policy rather than abhorrence. 
 Will-power manliness can also appear to have an air of desperation, or can be said to be desperate underneath, despite an air of confidence on the surface. Some would interpret T.R.'s manliness as too emphatic to be true, because true manliness has more quiet in its confidence, less stridency in its assertiveness. Yet if all we know is based on social construction, meaning that all we know is contingently based on how society is now -- and so manliness is impermanent and will pass away in our gender-neutral society -- then it is reasonable to feel anxiety instead of confidence.

Biting the Hand
 Gerard Baker writes in the March issue of Foreign Policy that those around the world who chide the United States for running large and rising budget deficits have a point, but ought to be careful what they wish for. 
 Any significant belt-tightening in the United States during the next four years is in the long-term interests of the rest of the world. But, in the here and now, the political costs will be brutal -- and not mainly for Americans. 
 No country probably fears a drop in U.S. deficits more than Japan. Paradoxically, it has been historically strong American demand for Japanese imports -- driven in part by the mounting U.S. budget deficit -- that has allowed Japanese politicians to avoid dealing with the underlying structural weaknesses of Japan's economy. Unfortunately, Japan is in no condition to counter a declining U.S. deficit with a fiscal expansion of its own.

Whatchamacallit
 In the April issue of Discover, Joshua Foer relates how a seemingly technical controversy over the rules for classifying and naming species is resonating through the scientific world. At issue is whether to replace the 270-year-old Linnaean naming system with a new method called PhyloCode that would more closely reflect evolution and ancestry -- a change that could involve giving every living thing a new name. 
 Science is supposed to shed its old habits when better ways of doing things come along. But who decides when one way of doing things is better than another? And what happens when not everyone agrees? ''Science the process is objective,'' says Yale paleontologist Jacques Gauthier, one of the leaders of the PhyloCode movement. ''But scientists are people, and they aren't objective.'' 
 Under the traditional system, for example, mammals might be defined as warm-blooded animals with hair and mammary glands. Under the PhyloCode, they might be defined as all creatures descended from the most recent common ancestor of Homo sapiens and the platypus. 
 What about all those hierarchical ranks in the Linnaean system, like phylum and family? Because they are just artificial constructs that reflect nothing in the natural world, they become unnecessary under the PhyloCode. Gauthier says, ''Everything else has changed since Darwin, but not this.''

At Her Expense
 Richard Beard explores the eternal hostility between human beings and their mothers-in-law in the Winter issue of Granta, and retells some quintessential mother-in-law jokes along the way. 
 One is set in Ireland:
 Murphy's mother-in-law was walking round the farm when a mule attacked her and she died. Five hundred married men turned up at the funeral, and Father O'Toole said to Murphy, ''I never realized your mother-in-law was so popular.'' Murphy said, ''Father, they're not here for the funeral. They've come to buy the mule.'' 
 Another is set in the Middle East:
 Abu el-Abed's mother-in-law died. Abu Staeif went to offer his condolences and ask him how it happened. 
 Abu el-Abed. She was leaning on the balcony when she flipped over and ----
 Abu Staeif. She hit the ground and died?
 Abu el-Abed. No, she hit the electricity cable and ----
 Abu Staeif. She got electrocuted?
 Abu el-Abed. No, she got deflected to our neighbor's swimming pool and ----
 Abu Staeif. She drowned?
 Abu el-Abed. No, she hit the diving board and bounced all the way back to the balcony intact ----
 Abu Staeif (confused) How did your mother-in-law die then?
 Abu el-Abed. I grabbed my rifle and shot her.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Scott Lewis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); BUDGETS (86%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



407 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL: KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Summer of Love (For Players Of Certain Age) In San Francisco

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Forty years ago, San Franciscans packed Haight-Ashbury all but chanting, ''Don't trust anyone over 30!'' To everything, turn, turn, turn. As Bay Area fans flock to SBC Park this year to watch their baseball Giants, they will be doing the opposite.
 The 2005 Giants will be trusting those over 30 more than any other team in major league history. Barry Bonds, who turned 40 last July, isn't the only older player leading the charge. After bolstering an old team this winter with several veterans in their late 30's, the Giants are poised to field the oldest major league lineup ever. 
 Around the infield are J.T. Snow (37), Ray Durham (33), Omar Vizquel (37) and Edgardo Alfonzo (31); catcher Mike Matheny is 34; and the outfield consists of Bonds, Marquis Grissom (37) and Moises Alou (38). If all eight stay reasonably healthy, the Giants will become just the sixth major league team with every regular position player 30 years or older. And their average age, 36.1, as of baseball's conventional July 1 cutoff date, would be the highest for a group of starters.
 The Giants players consider this a positive; they euphemize ''old'' as ''experienced'' the way real estate agents do ''small'' as ''charming.'' (Grissom said, ''People say, 'Oh, you're the oldest team in baseball,' but that should be a compliment.'') Either way, does it bode well for the Giants, who are favored by many to win the National League West?
 Older teams tend to be impressive on paper because of the players' proven track records; they also tend to win because they are built for immediate success. San Francisco General Manager Brian Sabean has taken this approach for years, each winter acquiring veterans (often by trading young prospects) to supplement the age-defying Bonds. Sabean said, ''We do believe in the old motto, 'The future is now.'''
 Old motto, indeed -- and it has worked for the Giants. Their 2002 team won the National League pennant with its eight regulars averaging 33.4 years, and the 2003 division champions averaged 33.1. San Francisco slumped to second last year, two games behind the Dodgers, no doubt because the new catcher, A.J. Pierzynski, was only 27.
 This winter, Sabean banished Pierzynski from the adults' table, signing the former Cardinal Matheny to catch. By also importing Vizquel for shortstop and Alou for right field, Sabean went full speed ahead with his over-30 regular lineup.
 Such rosters have a mixed history. The other five were the 1981 Phillies (59-48 record), the 1982 Angels (93-69), the 1998 Orioles (79-83), the 2001 Diamondbacks (92-70) and the 2004 Mariners (63-99). Although the Mariners were a classic case of an aged team falling apart, three of those clubs made the playoffs, with one, the Diamondbacks, winning the World Series.
 Even if a few current Giants starters miss significant time with injuries, other 30-somethings are ready to fill in. The top reserves are Michael Tucker, 33, and Pedro Feliz, who turns 30 in April. So barring a significant trade for a youngster, the Giants' entire hitting roster will still be the oldest ever.
 Tom Ruane of Retrosheet.org, the online box score repository, determined this by figuring the average age of not just a team's regulars but of all players, weighted by their number of plate appearances. The 1998 and 1999 Orioles -- led by the aging veterans Cal Ripken, Brady Anderson, Harold Baines and others -- topped the list at 33.9 and 33.2, followed by the Giants of 2002 and 2003. The 2005 Giants will probably wind up around 34.5 or older, beating them all.
 This goes beyond trivia to foreshadowing success. Seven of the 10 oldest lineups helped their teams win 90 games, and six of those teams reached the playoffs. (The season after was a different story, with the average record dropping to 83-79 from 88-74.) Many experts on statistics have historically distrusted old rosters -- younger ones show a greater tendency to improve -- but Ruane said that free agency and the more recent economic disparities among clubs allowed for new, effective strategies.
 ''Today, you can retool with 35-year-olds,'' said Ruane, 50, by day a programmer for I.B.M. in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. ''Even though they're usually overpriced, they're known commodities. If you can afford that, you can do it. A lot of these players weren't available in the past. Al Kaline would be on the Giants today if he was in his late 30's and productive.''
 All of baseball is growing older. Presumably because of medical advances keeping players healthier longer, the average age of position players has consistently risen since the 1960's; last year it was 29.3, 2 years older than it was in 1967. Soon, the average age of a major league hitter may be 30 for the first time.
 Until then, Vizquel isn't worried about his Giants being old, but playing old.
 ''A lot of 25-, 28-year-old guys, they look like they're 38, and vice versa,'' he said. ''I've seen a lot of guys 35, 38, who look like they're 25. So it depends how you feel, and what kind of vibe we've got here on the team.''
 That vibe will certainly be different from the one swirling around the Bay Area 40 years ago. If you're going to San Francisco, particularly SBC Park, be sure to wear some Grecian Formula in your hair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



408 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Courts Blacks and Hispanics on Social Security

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
As part of their campaign to overhaul Social Security, White House officials and Republican strategists have begun a push to persuade African-Americans and Hispanics that Social Security, long thought to be of benefit to them, is a bad deal.
 Republican officials argue that blacks are being shortchanged under the current Social Security system because they tend to die earlier than do whites and to collect retirement benefits for fewer years.
 In a parallel effort aimed at Hispanics, they focus on the wealth that people could build through the sort of individual investment accounts that the Bush administration has proposed.
 ''We are not privatizing Social Security,'' Hector V. Barreto, the administrator of the Small Business Administration, said in a recent appeal to Hispanic leaders here. ''This would be voluntary -- voluntary personal retirement accounts.'' 
 African-American and Hispanic communities are strongholds of Democratic support, and retirees in each group rely more heavily on Social Security benefits than whites do.
 But Republican Party officials are stepping up their efforts, enlisting black and Hispanic business executives, evangelical church leaders and even college students.
 Ken Mehlman, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, has in recent weeks spoken to a forum of black voters in Maryland, black students at Michigan State University and the National Black Chamber of Commerce in Trenton. 
 ''African-American men get on average two to four years of retirement benefits, while white Americans get 10 to 12 years of benefits,'' said Tara Wall, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee. ''The odds are stacked against African-Americans.''
 Administration officials are also courting national Hispanic groups like the National Council of La Raza, which has yet to take a clear stand on the issue. They also have been booking interviews on Spanish-language television and radio for Mr. Barreto and other promoters of President Bush's plan.
 The effort has infuriated many who say that Social Security is more important for their communities than it is for whites.
 ''It's one of the best deals that poor and working poor can get, and blacks unfortunately are overrepresented in those groups,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus. ''If one of the appeals to blacks is that they're not getting a fair shake because they die earlier, it would seem to me that they would at least address the question of why they die earlier and what we can do about it.''
 Studies by the Treasury Department and the Government Accountability Office indicate that Social Security provides more generous benefits to low-income workers, blacks included, even after accounting for shorter life expectancies.
 Social Security is the only source of income for about 38 percent of black retirees and 40 percent of Hispanic retirees, according to government data. In contrast, only 18 percent of white retirees receive income exclusively from Social Security. 
 The system is intended to be more generous, relative to taxes paid, to low-income workers. Retirement benefits replace about 70 percent of working income for a person who earns $10,000 year. But benefits replace only 28.5 percent of earnings for a person who earns $70,000.
 But critics have argued for years that Social Security is less ''progressive'' than it looks because poorer people tend to die younger than do affluent people.
 The average life expectancy for black males is about 69 years, compared with 75 years for the average white male, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 In theory, that greatly reduces the average lifetime retirement benefits for black men.
 But the gap is smaller for people who actually reach retirement because black life expectancies are heavily affected by infant mortality and violence. A black man who turns 65 has a life expectancy of 79.6 years, only two years less than that of a 65-year-old white man.
 African-Americans also receive a disproportionate share of disability benefits and survivor benefits, which are paid to spouses and children of workers who die early.
 African-Americans account for about 12 percent of the population, for example, but African-American children account for 23 percent of children who receive Social Security survivor benefits. Mr. Bush has indicated that he would not make any changes to the Social Security disability program, whose benefits are financed by a separate part of payroll taxes.
 Disability benefits are calculated in part based on estimates of what a worker's future retirement benefits would have been if he had kept working. Protecting the survivor benefits under Social Security could be even more difficult because those are paid from the same pool of taxes used to pay retirement benefits. A Treasury Department study in 1996, which analyzed Social Security records from 1951 through 1988, concluded that people at all income levels received more in benefits than they had paid out in taxes, even after adjusting for inflation.
 The Treasury economists concluded that a higher mortality rate ''does not reverse the conclusion that Social Security net returns are strongly progressive.''
 The accountability office, the investigative arm of the Congress, reached a similar conclusion in 2003. It calculated that whites ultimately received slightly more benefits than did blacks and Hispanics at every income level. But those differences were small compared with the higher benefits offered to people at lower income levels.
 ''If you took a snapshot today and asked who benefits the most from Social Security, it would be African-Americans,'' said Robert Johnson, the chairman of Black Entertainment Television and a supporter of Mr. Bush's approach. 
 Supporters of private retirement accounts say this could be a big political opportunity for Republicans.
 ''The Democratic Party is so dependent on huge margins in the black community that if even 25 or 30 percent of blacks back personal savings accounts it would be a big gain for Republicans,'' said Michael Tanner, the director of the Project on Social Security Choice at the Cato Institute.
 Many large African-American organizations, like the National Associated for the Advancement of Colored People, remain adamantly opposed to Mr. Bush's plan.
 Hispanic groups are more divided. The League of United Latin American Citizens has firmly opposed Mr. Bush's call for private accounts.
 But the National Council of La Raza has taken a more nuanced position. Last month, the organization said it welcomed the debate over Social Security but ''does not believe that the system needs to be dramatically restructured.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Social Security And Minorities''A 2003 G.A.O. report found that while whites received slightly more benefits at every income level from Social Security, those differences were small compared with the differences between income groups.Median lifetime benefits-to-tax ratio, by income groupGraphs track median lifetime benefits-to-tax ratio, by income group for Whites, Blacks, and Hispanics.(Source by ''Social Security and Minorities,'' U.S. Government Accountability Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); RELIGION (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); NATIONAL BLACK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



409 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SURFACING: ROTTERDAM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: A City Designed Around Design

BYLINE: By ANDREW YANG

 BODY:
IN Rotterdam, the skyline is not dominated by church steeples or historic monuments but by the mast of the Erasmus Bridge -- named for this city's most famous resident -- which features a 450-foot spire that resembles an upside-down tuning fork.
 Modern office skyscrapers greet visitors at Central Station (it's about an hour train ride from Amsterdam; the round trip is $31, at $1.36 to the euro). Largely bombed out by the Germans in World War II, Rotterdam, the second largest city in the Netherlands after Amsterdam, has completed over the last 20 years several successful urban renewal projects that have left it with a thriving local economy (the largest commercial port in the world). 
 Not surprisingly then, perhaps, Rotterdam has become a home to architecture firms and design museums, some of which are considered the most progressive in the world. Rotterdam is increasingly to architecture what Paris is to fashion, or Los Angeles to entertainment. 
 ''In the early 80's, the city decided that one of the things it needed to sell was architecture,'' said Aaron Betsky, the director of the Netherlands Architecture Institute. As a result, the city campaigned for financing for its institutions, which led to the formation of the N.A.I. 
 ''It was a very deliberate strategy,'' Mr. Betsky said. ''I sit here in my office, watching people with their cameras pointed up at the building, so I know they are looking at the architecture.'' 
 Right in the center of the city are the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen; the architecture institute; and the Kunsthal, an art museum, which make up a rich core of art and design institutions.
 On view through May 22 at the N.A.I., Museumpark 25, www.nai.nl , is ''No. 250,'' a show on the Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron, which designed the Tate Modern in London. On a recent visit (entry $8.80), an expansive gallery on the ground floor displayed samples and models of the firm's projects, like the Prada store in Tokyo and a huge section of the Olympic stadium in Beijing. 
 Down the street, the N.A.I. also operates Sonneveld House, a gleaming white villa from the 1930's that was ultramodern in its day, and is still stunning. Much of the interior has been restored, and much of the original furniture refurbished. 
 From the entrance of the institute, a dirt path leads across a footbridge directly to the entrance of the Kunsthal, also in Museumpark at Westzeedijk 341, (31-10) 440-0300, www.kunsthal.nl. It was one of the first buildings realized by Rem Koolhaas, whose firm, the Office for Metropolitan Architecture, is based in the city. 
 The entrance to the museum is a steep, upwardly sloping concrete path. Once inside, visitors will find that many of the corridors and pathways of the museum are much the same way; a downward slope only gives way to another upward slope. Stimulating to navigate, the Kunsthal is one of Mr. Koolhaas's early major works. General admission is $11.50.
 In a city that is already rather diverse (an estimated one-sixth of its population is Muslim), Rotterdam's design culture and the international reputations of such firms as MVRDV, OMA and West 8 are a huge draw for foreigners. At the Berlage Institute, an avant-garde graduate-level design school, 57 of the 60 registered students are from outside of the country. Its gallery, at Botersloot 25, www.berlage-institute.nl, shows the often radical work of the faculty members and students. 
 From May 26 to June 26, the city will be host to the second International Architecture Biennale, www.biennalerotterdam.nl, at the N.A.I. and at the nightclub Las Palmas, Wilhelminakade 66-68. Its curator is Adriaan Geuze, of the landscape and urban design firm West 8. 
 The theme of the show, ''The Flood,'' is inspired by centuries of Dutch experience of holding the water back in a country that is several feet below sea level, and the focus will be on international water issues.
 ''The idea of flooding is an important agenda for Holland,'' said Mr. Geuze, 45. ''I would even say it's the backbone of Dutch society.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Netherlands Architecture Institute's show ''No. 250'' looks at the work of the Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron, which designed Tate Modern in London, among other projects. (Photo by Herman Wouters for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); TRAINS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%) Travel and Vacations; Design; Architecture

PERSON: Andrew Yang

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%) NETHERLANDS (99%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (66%) Rotterdam (Netherlands); Netherlands 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



410 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Suburbia, At Long Last, In Academia

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
IN some ways, all academic conferences sound the same, so when Hofstra University staged a symposium on all things suburban on Friday and yesterday, the topics had a familiar ring of cheeky certitude.
 There were big idea topics: ''Boomburbs: The Rise of America's Accidental Cities.'' There were obscure topics: ''Aesthetic Dimensions of the San Fernando Valley Bicycle Commute.'' There were apocalyptic topics: ''The End of the Hamptons: Scenes from the Class Struggle in America's Paradise.'' 
 Well, on second thought, maybe all academic conferences don't sound the same. 
 The conference, ''New Visions of Suburban Life,'' wasn't the first on suburbia and it certainly won't be the last. But from the opening presentation on Friday by the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, to a showing yesterday of a new documentary on the showdown between migrant workers and residents in Farmingville on Long Island, the conference at the very least had two things going for it. First, at a time when, by some accountings, half of the nation lives in suburbs, it treated suburban life as worthy and complex, not a bothersome deviation from the urban ideal. And it was a reminder that no place summarizes the tensions and challenges of suburbia as does Long Island, the Galapagos of suburban dysfunction.
 Indeed, Hofstra's president, Stuart Rabinowitz, cited that as one of the main reasons the school founded its Center for Suburban Studies, one of a small handful of suburban studies institutes.
 ''We're the perfect laboratory,'' he said. ''We're located in one of the first suburbs and one that has had virtually every problem already that every other suburb will face.''
 The study of suburbia -- and no jokes, please, about lawn mower repair or ''Desperate Housewives'' -- has long been the neglected stepchild of academia and public policy, viewed for decades as neither worthy nor all that interesting by the former and as not in need of much attention by the latter. 
 So there's an Urban Institute, and frequent hand-wringing about the need for an urban policy, but no Suburban Institute or fretting about suburban policy. There's an urban lobby in Washington and a rural or farm one, but usually no one advocating for suburbia.
 One of the classic books about cities is Jane Jacob's stately ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities.'' The equally worthy suburban counterpart has the somewhat less grand title, ''Crabgrass Frontier.'' And while nearly all major universities have teams of dogged urban affairs experts, the suburban experts opining on mass transit, growth, race or kids were as likely to come from more modest suburban institutions like Bergen Community College in New Jersey or Bronx Community College than brand-name universities. 
 THE conference, for a change, did not begin with the familiar premise (see ''American Beauty,'' ''The Ice Storm,'' etc.) that suburban life is inherently deficient or flawed.
 ''In literature it's been alcoholism, despair, stress, anxiety, alienation, blah blah blah blah blah, the whole suburban schtick,'' said Robert Beuka, author of the recently published ''SuburbiaNation: Reading Suburban Landscape in Twentieth-Century American Fiction and Film.'' 
 First up, as if invented for the conference, was Mr. Suozzi, who has been touting his vision of a ''New Suburbia,'' a blend of the urban and suburban on Long Island. It includes an economic development plan based on opportunistic job creation in high-skill technology, entertainment and tourism; affordable-housing initiatives; beefed-up mass transit; preserving open space; redeveloping suburban downtowns and brownfields; and rebuilding struggling communities. Its signature item is a call for a densely settled urban hub in the area around the Hofstra campus near the Nassau Coliseum that would be linked to the rest of the county by rail lines and buses. In its most grandiose iteration it could include the businessman Charles Wang's seemingly loopy idea for a 60-story office building and hotel that would function like a lighthouse with a beacon on top.
 Mr. Suozzi touts the overall plan as a way to keep the elements that draw people to suburbia while allowing the county to grow without choking on cars -- at a time when it has run out of places to sprawl even if it wanted to.
 Robert Puentes of the Brookings Institution said one blind spot in policy analysis was how different older suburbs, like the ones around New York, are from newer ones in the South and West. He said Nassau reflected the plight of America's older suburbs, including Westchester, Fairfield, Essex and Bergen Counties, which, as a group, have older populations and slower growth than the nation as a whole. They also have aging infrastructure, housing shortages, fiscal problems and a minority population that doubled between 1980 and 2000.
 Even some admirers are skeptical about how much of Mr. Suozzi's vision will ever be realized. But, said Mr. Puentes, give him credit for having one, and for recognizing that what's good for the new boomburbs of the South and West doesn't necessarily have anything in common with what's good for the older suburbs of the Northeast. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); COUNTIES (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



411 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Social Security as Dramamine

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
JUDGING by the polls, President Bush's plan to transform Social Security from an insurance program that guarantees a minimum income into something more closely resembling a 401(k) investment program isn't going very well. A poll published by The New York Times on Wednesday showed that only 30 percent of Americans approved of the way Mr. Bush was handling Social Security. Partisan politics are doubtless at work. But economics could help explain the public's reluctance, too. 
 Volatility -- the degree to which the value of an asset deviates above or below the general trend -- is a concept with which investors are familiar. Some stocks can prove more risky -- or more rewarding -- than others because they rise or fall by a greater degree than the market as a whole, while others tend to track the overall market's performance closely. But the concept of volatility is less well understood when it comes to income. As we learn more about income volatility in the information age, some scholars say, Social Security -- an insurance program designed for the industrial age -- may be even more essential. 
 Income volatility has long been a hallmark of the American economy. Compared with those of workers in other developed countries, the earnings of Americans tend to bounce around drastically from year to year. And that's not necessarily bad. ''People don't realize that income volatility and income mobility are the same thing,'' said Peter Gottschalk, professor of economics at Boston College and a pioneer in the study of income volatility. People who start out at the bottom of the income ladder frequently wind up at a higher rung.
 Conversely, just because you earn $300,000 this year doesn't mean you'll be making that much 10 years from now. The economist Joseph A. Schumpeter, who coined the term ''creative destruction,'' described the upper strata of society as a hotel in which the guests are always changing. Income volatility is the mechanism through which guests check in and check out.
 After mining data from the Panel Study of Income and Dynamics, a database produced by the University of Michigan that tracks the incomes of the same families over a 40-year period, scholars have concluded that incomes are much less stable -- i.e., much more volatile -- today than they have been in the past. ''There has unequivocally been general upward-trend income volatility since at least 1975,'' said Bruce A. Moffitt, the Krieger-Eisenhower professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University, who, with Professor Gottschalk, wrote one of the first papers on income volatility in the 1990's. ''It accelerated in the 1980's, turned down in the early 1990's, and then accelerated into the end of the 1990's.''
 According to a measure of volatility constructed by Jacob S. Hacker, a Yale political scientist, which tracks the five-year moving average of family incomes, income volatility rose 88 percent between 1978 and 2000.
 ''The problem in the past few decades,'' Professor Moffitt said, ''is that volatility has risen while real incomes haven't risen.'' What's more, income volatility has grown significantly for those who can afford it least. A series of articles last year in The Los Angeles Times, written by Peter G. Gosselin, who worked closely with Professor Moffitt and other scholars, reported that in the 1970's, income for middle-class Americans tended to fluctuate by 16 percent a year. But in the 1980's and 1990's, middle-class incomes fluctuated an average of 30 percent. For those whose earnings placed them in the bottom fifth, income volatility rose from 25 percent in the early 1970's to 50 percent in recent years. 
 Because of other longstanding trends in the economy, strong income volatility can wreak greater havoc now than it did in the past. ''The old view among economists was that income volatility didn't affect consumption much,'' said Raj Chetty, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. It was generally thought that when families' incomes fell sharply and unexpectedly, they would borrow, tap into savings or send a second adult (frequently a mother) into the work force rather than sharply reduce consumption. But, Professor Chetty said, ''that no longer seems to be the case today.''
 Why? Many families already rely on two incomes. What's more, fixed commitments have risen as a percentage of total income. In her book, ''The Two-Income Trap,'' Elizabeth Warren, a bankruptcy specialist at the Harvard Law School, found that the typical American household in the early 1970's spent about 54 percent of its income on big fixed expenses -- home mortgage, health insurance, car, child care -- with the rest left over for discretionary spending. By the early part of this decade, however, the typical family was spending 75 percent of its income on these large fixed costs. ''They're spending much more of their income on things that can't be cut back quickly,'' said Professor Warren. ''If you lose income suddenly, you can't decide to sell off one bedroom or decide to cover only half of your family'' with insurance.
 THE factors that functioned as internal shock absorbers for families have weakened. And so, too, have external buffers. Over the last three decades, the percentage of workers covered by defined-benefit pension plans and employer-provided health insurance -- guarantees that provide ballast for fluctuating incomes -- has declined. Add this to the trend of rising volatility -- especially for people in the lower and middle income levels -- and it's easy to understand the reluctance to transform a government program that guarantees seniors an income. 
 ''Social Security provides a vital kind of insurance,'' Professor Hacker said. ''The real issue lurking behind this debate is whether we should have a program that provides the bedrock protection against economic risk.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about the effect of fluctuating incomes on the Social Security debate, misstated the given name of the Krieger-Eisenhower professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University, who is an expert on income volatility. He is Robert A. Moffitt, not Bruce. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Variability of Family Income''Between 1978 and 2000, the fluctuation of family incomes has increased.Graph tracks Index of volatility (five-year moving average) from 1978 to 2000.(Source by Jacob S. Hacker [Yale University])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRENDS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); POLITICS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



412 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: Political River Dance

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
''YOU don't know what I go through!'' Sleepy Hollow's mayor, Philip E. Zegarelli, exclaimed frustratedly to a visitor one recent afternoon, indicating a letter he was writing to a disgruntled citizen about the lack of area dog parks. 
 ''Rest assured,'' Mayor Zegarelli dutifully wrote the citizen, ''the matter is on our agenda.''
 But how high on the agenda is another question. Of late, the mayor's heart and mind have been preoccupied with a development proposal that he almost breathlessly describes as ''a once-in-a-hundred-year opportunity'' for reinventing the village's shoreline.
 Invoking the good of future generations, he says, ''We all have an obligation to make sure it's done right.'' 
 Mayor Zegarelli -- now locked in a battle with neighboring Tarrytown on just how each village's development will unfold -- is one of a growing number of officials involved in projects along Westchester's 49 miles of riverfront. The proposals, aimed mostly at turning former industrial sites into luxury residential and retail enclaves, are being driven by economics and a growing population. 
 According to Chris Jones, a regional planning expert, three major trends combine to feed the tensions that influence this area's shoreline growth: an unrelenting increase in housing prices; strong antigrowth sentiment among residents; and the cleanup of the Hudson River, which has occurred in fits and starts over the past 30 years. 
 With each new development deal, said Mr. Jones, an official at a nonprofit New York City group called the Regional Plan Association, all sides jockey for best advantage -- developers, municipalities and residents, ''trying to balance the need for housing, the community's concerns and the environmental issues.''
 This being election season, it is municipal officials who are feeling the most heat in that equation. In Tarrytown, for instance, Mayor Paul Janos, a four-term incumbent, was voted out of office along with three other Republicans this past week, in what some viewed as a vote of no confidence over the handling of the riverfront politics with Sleepy Hollow. 
 The heart of the conflict: Tarrytown sees its neighbor's project as too large, potentially generating huge amounts of traffic and burdening the villages' joint school district; Sleepy Hollow in turn objects to Tarrytown's plan, because it would entail moving an asphalt plant closer to the Sleepy Hollow border.
 The designated Sleepy Hollow development site is a 97-acre spit of land formerly used by General Motors to manufacture cars. There, a New Jersey developer called Roseland Property has proposed building 1,562 residential units, retail and office space, and a hotel.
 The billion-dollar project, called Lighthouse Landing, promises to plump up Sleepy Hollow's depleted coffers, but many residents remain to be convinced -- which they vocally made clear at a public hearing last month. They fear that the proposed development, which could increase the village population by a third, threatens the very qualities that the name Sleepy Hollow suggests. 
 ''A project of that size would overwhelm us,'' said Patrick Munroe, 61, who was born and reared in the 2.3-square-mile village. ''It's too huge.''
 Richard Plano, another resident, predicted that the project's 900-plus rental units would draw singles, who because of the town's character would not feel at home.
 ''Sleepy Hollow is a village of families,'' said Mr. Plano, president of the Philipse Manor Improvement Association, a neighborhood advocacy organization. ''It's not a city like Hoboken.''
 Tarrytown officials, too, have been vocal, crossing the border to attend Sleepy Hollow's public meetings. They have voiced concern about the extra Sleepy Hollow traffic and emphasized the potential burden on the Union Free School District of the Tarrytowns. They have also contrasted Sleepy Hollow's grand plan with their own more modest proposal, called Ferry Landings, for 200 units of housing on a 30-acre site. 
 But with the defeat of Mayor Janos and his slate last Tuesday, Tarrytown residents are making a statement, too. The winners were Drew Fixell, a Democratic, and three fellow candidates who espouse more citizen involvement in local government.
 ''It's not so much that residents felt they were in different camps when it came to the waterfront,'' the mayor-elect said. ''It's just that there's so much at stake here and they believed that with Mr. Janos, they weren't part of the decision-making process.''
 Mr. Fixell said his first act would be to reactivate a dormant waterfront advisory council composed of trustees and a maximum of 10 residents. 
 But, Tarrytown council or no, Sleepy Hollow and its developer have already acted on concerns about the shifting of the asphalt factory. The village recently filed suit in state Supreme Court in White Plains challenging the Tarrytown plan on environmental grounds. In a related suit, Roseland, the Sleepy Hollow developer, joined forces with G.M. to object to the effort to move the asphalt plant closer.
 In the first case, the court found Tarrytown in compliance with state-mandated environmental review steps. But in the second, it barred the village from moving the asphalt plant, which means that the village will either have to condemn the plant or find another place to put it. 
 NOT all riverfront projects are so fraught. One of the most successful, paradoxically, is in Yonkers, long tarred with a reputation as ''a city of hills where nothing is on the level.''
 With a major phase of redevelopment completed, the city has a new 200,000-square-foot, $53 million library building, which also houses the city's Board of Education, all on the site of a former Otis Elevator plant.
 In addition, the 20,000-square-foot former headquarters of The Gazette Press is now home to a new upscale restaurant and new businesses. 
 And the first new residential construction on the waterfront in more than 40 years, Hudson Park at Yonkers, has 266 rental units in two towers, and 21,000 square feet of retail, restaurant and office space. The two buildings are 95 percent occupied, and the next phase of Hudson Park, which will include 280 apartments, is about to begin.
 Nearby, the city's Recreation Pier, renovated in 1996, is the only Victorian-era pier still in use on the river. In the warmer months, it is a site for jazz concerts and other shows. 
 Metro-North recently completed a $35.5 million dollar renovation of the Yonkers train station in Larkin Plaza, a busy area that used to be plagued by crime, said the city's police commissioner, Robert Taggart.
 When he was a beat cop 30 years ago, Commissioner Taggart said, the city recorded 15 muggings in the area near the train station during the course of a week. Even as recently as five years ago, he added, many residents avoided the neighborhood after dark. 
 The road to this success has not always been smooth, said Mayor Philip A. Amicone. Alluding to decades of bickering among municipal officials and development deals gone sour, he acknowledged, ''We paid our dues in getting here.''
 In its own way, struggling Peekskill has paid dues, too. Riverfront development is on the way north to the rescue, said Mayor John G. Testa, calling it an idea whose time had finally come. 
 Along 2.5 miles of shoreline that is now home to lumberyards and deteriorated buildings, the developer Martin Ginsburg is proposing to build 450 housing units, new stores and restaurants, and a museum. The plan is wending its way through a preliminary approval process.
 ''People seemed to be pleased that a developer is finally interested in our city again,'' said Mr. Testa, who grew up in the area and witnessed the departure of many businesses during the 1960's. 
 ''Far from worrying about being overwhelmed, we're hungry for revitalization,'' said Mr. Testa, predicting that the project would generate several millions of dollars annually in sales and property tax revenues.
 FROM his perch upriver in Poughkeepsie, Ned Sullivan, president of Scenic Hudson, a nonprofit environmental group and land trust, has been monitoring developments. He says he is not altogether pleased with what he sees so far, but he did cite positive notes.
 Most important, Mr. Sullivan said, he sees a noticeable increase in respect for the river all along its shoreline, along with a healthy caution about the impact of new development. ''People are finally recognizing that the river is a world-class resource, and not a dumping ground,'' he said. All of the municipalities involved in redevelopment efforts are setting aside public green space and taking other pro-environmental steps, in sharp contrast to actions taken in the early wave of development over the previous century, when industry polluted the river. General Electric in particular was a major early offender, illegally dumping chemicals used as coolants and lubricants in electrical equipment. 
 Noting that developers today are wary of contaminated sites, Mayor Amicone said Yonkers had jump-started new development by cleaning up sites at its own expense or in conjunction with builders.
 ''Our goal is to make it as easy for them as possible,'' he said, adding that Yonkers is also working with Scenic Hudson on a plan to uncover sections of the Saw Mill River, which have been buried under roadways.
 Mr. Sullivan had praise for Yonkers on this score -- especially, he said, considering the direction it was poised to take two decades ago. He cited the city's plan in the mid-80's for six 37-story luxury apartment buildings along the Hudson, and remembered that Scenic Hudson had filed suit to halt the project on the ground that it would ''block public views of and access to the river.''
 ''Today,'' Mr. Sullivan said, ''people are down there enjoying the waterfront, and that's a real success.'' 
 Looking ahead, he added, Yonkers has more than 3,000 new residential units under consideration for the waterfront and adjacent downtown. Among them is a $1 billion proposal by the New Jersey developer Hovnanian Enterprises to build retail space and as many as 2,000 homes on 51 waterfront acres.
 Mr. Sullivan said Peekskill, too, was showing promise in preparing for the future of its 1.5 miles of waterfront. Scenic Hudson shares ownership of park space along the river near Peekskill, he added, to ensure that ''no matter what else happens, there will always be public access.'' 
 But he withheld full-scale approval of Peekskill's performance until Mr. Ginsburg's Hawthorne-based company comes up with a more detailed proposal. The company is also involved elsewhere on the river, building a 44-unit town house community on 3.4 waterfront acres in Sleepy Hollow, next to the General Motors site. In Haverstraw in Rockland County, it is redeveloping waterfront on the eastern shoreline of the river. 
 Not surprisingly, feuding Sleepy Hollow and Tarrytown did not fare well on Mr. Sullivan's ''report card,'' although he praised the developer Ferry Landings of Greenwich for its Tarrytown proposal, calling it ''a good mix of uses.'' The plan calls for parkland in addition to a ferry terminal, village hall and police complex. 
 For now, though, construction of the Ferry Landings site is all but stalled until the asphalt plant's future can be determined, said Joseph Cotter, president of the development company. He called the lawsuits ''just a time-consuming distraction.'' 
 As for the Lighthouse Landing proposal for the G.M. property, Jonathan D. Stein of Roseland Property remained unfazed by the opposition. ''It's about what we expected, and not more than in other places,'' said Mr. Stein, whose company is also involved in a river project at Port Imperial in New Jersey.
 In his opinion, difficulties will fade once residents realize the economic benefits for Sleepy Hollow and the schools. He estimated that the project would generate about $1 million annually for the municipality, which receives only limited revenues from G.M. these days, and provide four times that for the school district.

A Magnet for Those Who Want To Look Things Up, or Just Look
YONKERS
 AT dusk on a recent evening, as lights blinked on along the 4.5-mile-long waterfront here, Michelle Williams looked out at the scene unfolding before her from the third floor of the new public library. She watched a stream of commuter trains pull into the Metro-North station in Larkin Plaza across the street, and also monitored the Palisades on the other side of the Hudson, still flaming with the day's final sunrays. In that spot, at that moment, it seemed impossible that the City of Yonkers could be anything other than serene. 
 So seductive is the view from the upper floors of the Yonkers Public Library at the $53 million Larkin Center that Ms. Williams, a writer, says she is drawn to work here every day. 
 In the early evening, the building is often filled with young students who make regular use of the library's computers and books to complete their homework assignments. In the words of Tyran Campbell, 14, an eighth grader: ''It's a great place to get my homework done and to dream.''
 The library shares the four-story building with the city's Board of Education. When it opened a little over two years ago, it signaled the start of the waterfront's long-awaited rebirth.
 As the white concrete-and-glass structure with its blue-tinted windows replaced the former Otis Elevator headquarters, a once-decaying industrial neighborhood began to take on a sleek new downtown air. 
 The Yonkers Industrial Development Agency, which oversaw the library construction in the early 2000's, had bought the Otis Elevator site from Yonkers. The city had acquired it from the Port Authority of New York, the original purchaser from Otis in the early 1980's.
 When construction began, the interior was in ruins. By the end only the frame, the floors and the roof of the older red building had been retained. The original brick can still be seen from the back.
 Otis is now a subsidiary of the United Technologies Corporation, based in Hartford. For the new generation occupying the space, Ms. Williams said, ''It's a great place to escape to.'' ELSA BRENNER


GRAPHIC: Photos: The developer Martin Ginsburg surveys Peekskill riverfront property that he plans to reinvent as a luxury complex. Strong real estate prices are propelling projects all along the Hudson, but at the same time many residents are making it clear that they oppose further growth. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In Yonkers, above, new apartments and shops, already 95 percent occupied, flank an original recreation pier. Sleepy Hollow plans a large development at the former General Motors site, left, in full view of the Tarrytown lighthouse. The size of the project has provoked opposition. At Peekskill's riverfront, below, the developer Martin Ginsburg surveyed the scene with Mayor John G. Testa, holding a rendering of future construction. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)
The Yonkers Public Library is now housed in the rebuilt former Otis Elevator building, near the city's waterfront. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 Inside the Yonkers train station, a centerpiece of the city's riverfront renovation project. (pg. 11)Map of Westchester shows surrounding area. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); TRENDS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



413 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Word for Word / Cold Warrior; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Took the Measure Of the Communist Threat

BYLINE: By PETER EDIDIN

 BODY:
GEORGE F. KENNAN, who died Thursday at 101, was ''the nearest thing to a legend that this country's diplomatic service has ever produced,'' the historian Ronald Steel has said. He was the man who proposed ''containment,'' the cornerstone of the cold war, as a way to oppose the Soviet Union. 
 The idea of containment was worked out by Mr. Kennan in 1946, when he was the chief of mission in the United States Embassy in Moscow. The State Department had asked for help in understanding the Soviet state, to which he responded with an 8,000-word cable, known as the ''Long Telegram,'' which offered a detailed psychological, historical and political interpretation of the Soviet Union. 
 The telegram is remarkable for Mr. Kennan's clear-eyed, prophetic view of the Soviet state, and for his confidence in American society and its ability to counter the challenge of Communism. In 1946, when most of the world was bewildered and frightened by the rise of the Soviet Union, he felt certain a dictatorship could be defeated by a free society, so long as it kept faith with its own traditions and institutions. 
 Excerpts follow from the original telegram sent to the State Department, replete with missing and superfluous words, as well as words added in brackets by a reader at the State Department trying to make better sense of the text. PETER EDIDIN

861.00/2 - 2246: Telegram
The Charge in the Soviet Union (Kennan) to the Secretary of State
SECRET
Moscow, Feb. 22, 1946 -- 9 p.m. [Received Feb. 22 -- 3:52 p.m.]
 Answer to Dept.'s 284, Feb. 3, involves questions so intricate, so delicate, so strange to our form of thought, and so important to analysis of our international environment that I cannot compress answers into single brief message without yielding to what I feel would be dangerous degree of over-simplification.
 I apologize in advance for this burdening of telegraphic channel; but questions involved are of such urgent importance, particularly in view of recent events, that our answers to them, if they deserve attention at all, seem to me to deserve it at once.

The world, as seen by the Soviet leaders:
 U.S.S.R. still lives in antagonistic ''capitalist encirclement'' with which in the long run there can be no permanent peaceful coexistence. As stated by Stalin in 1927 to a delegation of American workers:
 ''In course of further development of international revolution there will emerge two centers of world significance: a socialist center, drawing to itself the countries which tend toward socialism, and a capitalist center, drawing to itself the countries that incline toward capitalism. Battle between these two centers for command of world economy will decide fate of capitalism and of communism in entire world.''

Why, the Soviet leadership is irrational:
 At bottom of Kremlin's neurotic view of world affairs is traditional and instinctive Russian sense of insecurity. Originally, this was insecurity of a peaceful agricultural people trying to live on vast exposed plain in neighborhood of fierce nomadic peoples. To this was added, as Russia came into contact with economically advanced West, fear of more competent, more powerful, more highly organized societies in that area. But this latter type of insecurity was one which afflicted rather Russian rulers than Russian people; for Russian rulers have invariably sensed that their rule was... unable to stand comparison or contact with political systems of Western countries. 
 It was no coincidence that Marxism... caught hold and blazed for first time in Russia. Only in this land which had never known a friendly neighbor or indeed any tolerant equilibrium of separate powers, either internal or international, could a doctrine thrive which viewed economic conflicts of society as insoluble by peaceful means.

How Soviet policymakers deal with the world, officially:
 Wherever it is considered timely and promising, efforts will be made to advance official limits of Soviet power. For the moment, these efforts are restricted to certain neighboring points conceived of here as being of immediate strategic necessity, such as northern Iran, Turkey, possibly Bornholm. However, other points may at any time come into question, if and as concealed Soviet political power is extended to new areas. Thus a ''friendly'' Persian government might be asked to grant Russia a port on Persian Gulf. Should Spain fall under Communist control, question of Soviet base at Gibraltar Strait might be activated.
 With respect to cultural collaboration, lip service will likewise be rendered to desirability of deepening cultural contacts between peoples.... Actual manifestations of Soviet policy in this respect will be restricted to arid channels of closely shepherded official visits and functions, with superabundance of vodka and speeches and dearth of permanent effects.

And unofficially:
 On unofficial plane particularly violent efforts will be made to weaken power and influence of Western Powers of [on] colonial backward, or dependent peoples. On this level, no holds will be barred. Mistakes and weaknesses of western colonial administration will be mercilessly exposed and exploited. Liberal opinion in Western countries will be mobilized to weaken colonial policies. 
 Where individual governments stand in path of Soviet purposes pressure will be brought for their removal from office. This can happen where governments directly oppose Soviet foreign policy aims (Turkey, Iran), where they seal their territories off against Communist penetration (Switzerland, Portugal), or where theycompete too strongly, like Labor government in England, for moral domination among elements which it is important for Communists to dominate.

What is to be done?
 In summary, we have here a political force committed fanatically to the belief that with U.S. there can be no permanent modus vivendi that it is desirable and necessary that the internal harmony of our society be disrupted, our traditional way of life be destroyed, the international authority of our state be broken, if Soviet power is to be secure.
 Problem of how to cope with this force in [is] undoubtedly greatest task our diplomacy has ever faced and probably greatest it will ever have to face. But I would like to record my conviction that problem is within our power to solve -- and that without recourse to any general military conflict. 
 We must see that our public is educated to realities of Russian situation. I cannot over-emphasize importance of this. Press cannot do this alone. It must be done mainly by government, which is necessarily more experienced and better informed on practical problems involved. In this we need not be deterred by [ugliness?] of picture. I am convinced that there would be far less hysterical anti-Sovietism in our country today if realities of this situation were better understood by our people. There is nothing as dangerous or as terrifying as the unknown.
 We must formulate and put forward for other nations a much more positive and constructive picture of sort of world we would like to see than we have put forward in past. It is not enough to urge people to develop political processes similar to our own. Many foreign peoples, in Europe at least, are tired and frightened by experiences of past, and are less interested in abstract freedom than in security. They are seeking guidance rather than responsibilities. We should be better able than Russians to give them this. And unless we do, Russians certainly will.

The thing to be feared.
 Finally we must have courage and self-confidence to cling to our own methods and conceptions of human society. [T]he greatest danger that can befall us in coping with this problem of Soviet communism, is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.


GRAPHIC: Photo: George F. Kennan wrote the book on the Soviet Union. (Photo by Eddie Hausner/The New York Times, 1969) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



414 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 5375 words

HEADLINE: Toward a Unified Theory of Black America

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner. 
Stephen J. Dubner is the author, with Steven D. Levitt, of the forthcoming ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.''

 BODY:
Roland G. Fryer Jr. is 27 years old and he is an assistant professor of economics at Harvard and he is black. Yes, 27 is young to be any kind of professor anywhere. But after what might charitably be called a slow start in the scholarly life, Fryer has been in a big hurry to catch up. He was in fact only 25 when he went on the job market, gaining offers from -- well, just about everywhere. He abruptly ended his job search by accepting an invitation to join the Society of Fellows at Harvard, one of academia's most prestigious research posts. This meant he wouldn't be teaching anywhere for three years. The Harvard economics department told Fryer to take its offer anyway; he could have an office and defer his teaching obligation until the fellowship was done. 
 Now that he is halfway through his fellowship, the quality and breadth of Fryer's research have surprised even his champions. ''As a pure technical economic theorist, he's of the first rate,'' says Lawrence Katz, a prominent labor economist at Harvard. ''But what's really incredible is that he's also much more of a broad social theorist -- talking to psychologists, sociologists, behavioral geneticists -- and the ideas he comes up with aren't the 'let's take the standard economic model and push a little harder' ideas. He makes you think of Nathan Glazer or William Julius Wilson, but with economic rigor.'' Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Harvard humanities scholar, says that Fryer is ''destined to be a star. I mean, he's a star already, just a baby star. I think he'll raise the analysis of the African-American experience to new levels of rigor and bring economics into the mainstream area of inquiry within the broader field of African-American studies.''
 When he presents a paper, Fryer is earnest and genial and excitable, sometimes carrying on like a Southern preacher. While he denies that his work is united by a grand thesis -- he is a scientist, he explains, devoted to squeezing truths from the data, wherever that may lead -- he does admit to having a mission: ''I basically want to figure out where blacks went wrong. One could rattle off all the statistics about blacks not doing so well. You can look at the black-white differential in out-of-wedlock births or infant mortality or life expectancy. Blacks are the worst-performing ethnic group on SAT's. Blacks earn less than whites. They are still just not doing well, period.''
 To Fryer, the language of economics, a field proud of its coldblooded rationalism, is ideally suited for otherwise volatile conversations. ''I want to have an honest discussion about race in a time and a place where I don't think we can,'' he says. ''Blacks and whites are both to blame. As soon as you say something like, 'Well, could the black-white test-score gap be genetics?' everybody gets tensed up. But why shouldn't that be on the table?''
 Fryer said this several months ago, which was well before Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard, wondered aloud if genetics might help explain why women are so underrepresented in the sciences. Summers -- who is also an economist and a fan of Fryer's work -- is still being punished for his musings. There is a key difference, of course: Summers is not a woman; Fryer is black. 
 Fryer well appreciates that he can raise questions that most white scholars wouldn't dare. His collaborators, most of whom are white, appreciate this, too. ''Absolutely, there's an insulation effect,'' says the Harvard economist Edward L. Glaeser. ''There's no question that working with Roland is somewhat liberating.''
 Glaeser and Fryer, along with David M. Cutler, another Harvard economist, are the authors of a paper that traffics in one form of genetic theorizing. It addresses the six-year disparity in life expectancy for blacks versus whites, arguing that much of the gap is due to a single factor: a higher rate of salt sensitivity among African-Americans, which leads to higher rates of cardiovascular disease, stroke and kidney disease. 
 Fryer's notion that there might be a genetic predisposition at work was heightened when he came across a period illustration that seemed to show a slave trader in Africa licking the face of a prospective slave. The ocean voyage from Africa to America was so gruesome that as many as 15 percent of the Africans died en route, mainly from illnesses that led to dehydration. A person with a higher capacity for salt retention might also retain more water and thus increase his chance of surviving. 
 So it may have been that a slave trader would try to select, with a lick to the cheek, the ''saltier'' Africans. Whether selected by the slavers or by nature, the Africans who did manage to survive the voyage -- and who then formed the gene pool of modern African-Americans -- may have been disproportionately marked by hypertension. Cutler, a pre-eminent health economist, admits that he thought Fryer's idea was ''absolutely crazy'' at first. (Although the link between the slave trade and hypertension had been raised in medical literature, even Cutler wasn't aware of it.) But once they started looking at the data, the theory began to seem plausible. 
 Fryer has published only a handful of papers so far, all of them written with senior colleagues. A bet on Fryer is, at this point, a bet on potential. But his voice is bold enough to have drawn critics already. Some black economists say he is simply too hard on blacks. ''Part of his work tries to dismiss the influence of racism,'' says William Darity Jr., who teaches at Duke and the University of North Carolina. Darity points to ''An Economic Analysis of 'Acting White,''' a paper in which Fryer explores the mechanism by which high-achieving black students may be antagonized, and held back, by their low-achieving peers. ''The inclination to look for an explanation based on some sort of group-based dysfunctionality is an instinct I don't have,'' Darity says.
 While most of Fryer's colleagues consider him blazingly smart, he constantly belittles his own intellect. ''I have to think hard when somebody says, 'World War I,' because I don't know what years those were,'' he says. ''But I work hard, harder than anyone. That's what I can control.'' Last summer, he told me he was vexed by the sight of a silver Volkswagen Jetta in the parking lot outside his office. It was there when he showed up every morning, and it was still there when he left at night. Weeks later, he sent me a relieved e-mail message: ''The Jetta was not working harder than me -- rather, they were on vacation.''
 He works so hard because his career goal is so audacious. Fryer's heroes are not contemporary economists like Glenn Loury or James Heckman or Gary Becker, even though he admires their work on racial issues and has been mentored by all three of them. Nor are his models the estimable crowd of Afro-American scholars assembled at Harvard by Gates, who happens to be Fryer's next-door neighbor. There is only one forebear whom Fryer aspires to emulate: W.E.B. DuBois, the fiercely interdisciplinary black scholar and writer who helped to pioneer the field of ethnography. ''The problem of the 20th century,'' DuBois said, presciently, in 1900, ''is the problem of the color line.''
 In Fryer's view, DuBois alone had the appetite to rigorously round up the facts and concepts and emotions that constitute race and then crack them open one by one. Separated by a century, their missions are identical: to study -- and maybe even help fix -- the condition of being black in America. 
 I met Fryer just over a year ago through a collaborator we share, the economist Steven D. Levitt of the University of Chicago. One paper that Fryer and Levitt wrote suggested that the gap in early test scores between black and white schoolchildren is largely caused by the fact that most black children attend worse schools. The second paper, a sort of sequel to Fryer's work on ''acting white,'' explored the rift between black and white cultures, asking in particular whether black parents who give their children a name like DeShawn or Imani hinder their children's career prospects.
 In person, Fryer gives the appearance of coming from a middle-class background, some kind of Cosby kid all grown up. But as I spent more time with him, it became obvious that that wasn't remotely the case. He began to tell me stories about his past that -- although I didn't know it then -- he didn't share with people in his ''new life,'' as he called it. It was unclear why he had finally decided to talk, and to me. It may have been that the project that brought Fryer, Levitt and me together was the sort of grisly work -- a research project concerning the inner workings of the Ku Klux Klan -- that tends to produce a bond. It may have been that he was simply weary of holding the two chapters in his life so far apart. Regardless, I soon became as fascinated with Fryer's life as I was impressed with his work.
 One morning, as we sat on a bench in Central Park in New York, he talked about his childhood in Daytona Beach, Fla. When he was a boy, he sometimes lived there with his grandmother Farrise, whom the family called Fat. She was a schoolteacher and a disciplinarian. But Fat's sister Ernestine, who lived nearby, ran a looser household, and Fryer preferred to hang out there. His older cousins had gold teeth and gold jewelry and, always, the latest Karl Kani track suits, in maroon or bright red, with matching suede Champion sneakers. On the weekends, Ernestine's husband, Lacey, cooked up a batch of pancakes. Lacey was a retired postal worker and a past president of the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter.
 At the same time, Lacey and Ernestine and some of their children were running one of the biggest crack gangs in the area. They would drive down to Miami to buy cocaine and then turn it into crack in their kitchen. As a boy, Fryer used to watch. In a frying pan -- the same one Lacey used for pancakes -- they mixed the powdered cocaine with water and baking soda, then cooked off the liquid until all that remained were the little white rocks. The family processed and sold as much as two kilograms of cocaine a week. 
 One day when Fryer was planning to visit Lacey and Ernestine -- Ernestine told him she would be making pork chops -- he decided to stop by the dog track first. He wasn't old enough to bet, but he loved to watch the greyhounds run. When he got to his aunt's house, it was surrounded by federal agents. Almost everyone in the family was sent to prison. Lacey got a 30-year sentence and died in prison; Ernestine was sentenced to a little more than three years. Fryer's favorite cousin, Wendy, got a long term; his cousin Vaughn got a shorter sentence, but upon his release he went back to selling crack and was murdered.
 Fryer loved Vaughn and Wendy. ''They seemed like pretty decent people,'' he said. ''If you had put them in the schools that a lot of these people came up in'' -- here he gestured toward the apartment buildings that border Central Park -- ''they probably would have been fine.''
 How many of his close family members, I asked him, had either died young or spent time in prison? He did a quick count: 8 of 10. ''Suppose you can separate people into two camps: geneticists and environmentalists,'' he said. ''Coming up where I came up, it's hard not to be an environmentalist.''
 As a graduate student, Fryer was enamored with the most theoretical realm of economics, studying arcane mathematical questions that kept him a safe distance from his past. But he has since crossed over to the empirical side of his science, which emphasizes real-world information. Most of his current projects involve huge troves of data that he is able to dissect with a particularly knowing eye. While this work may play more to his strengths, it also requires him to revisit his background in a manner that is anything but theoretical. 
 He is writing one paper about mixed-race children (trying to tease out the influence of environment versus genes), another about historically black colleges (he suspects that graduates might pay for their racial loyalty in the form of lower career earnings, but are in general happier) and another tentatively titled ''Bling-Bling'' (which, he says, ''explores the consumption patterns of blacks versus whites''). There are also papers on colorblind affirmative action and the devastating impact of crack cocaine on black Americans. In addition to his economics-department office, he maintains another office at the Society of Fellows and a third at the National Bureau of Economic Research; he keeps at least seven research assistants busy. Claudia Goldin, an economist colleague at Harvard, is among those who marvel at Fryer's creativity and his energy. ''You're running a factory,'' she told him.
 His most ambitious project, which grew out of his belief in the power of environment, is an experiment designed to see if incentives can inspire minority students to improve their grades. For all the talk about education reform, Fryer says, he feels that one party is being overlooked: the students themselves. ''I'm troubled by the fact we're treating kids as inanimate objects,'' he says. ''They have behavior, too. They respond to incentives, too.'' 
 Fryer recently ran a pilot experiment with third graders at P.S. 70 in the Bronx. If a child achieved a certain score on her reading test or improved by a certain percentage, she got a small prize. In some classrooms, every student competed for herself; in others, each kid was assigned to a group of five. Fryer is trying to find out whether the individual or group incentives work better. He suspects the latter -- ''because no stigma of being the smartest kid applies.'' But the P.S. 70 data was inconclusive.
 At a dinner party held by Larry Summers, Fryer met Joel Klein, the chancellor of New York's public schools, and explained his project to him. Klein asked Fryer if he might be interested in expanding his incentive experiment into 15 or so low-achieving schools. At P.S. 70, the rewards had been pizza parties or field trips. This time around, Fryer planned to give cash -- $10 per good test for third graders and $20 for seventh graders. Now it was time to sell the idea to the principals of those 15 schools. 
 On a Tuesday afternoon in October, Fryer met the principals in the library of an elementary school in Harlem. All but one of them were black. Fryer usually wears Polo jeans, a button-down shirt and chunky black shoes. Today he was dressed for church, maybe even the pulpit: charcoal Brooks Brothers suit, crisp white shirt, black Cole Haans and a dazzling tie of white and mauve checks. He began by reciting a list of statistics that illuminate the gulf between blacks and whites. ''These facts bother me,'' he said. ''The achievement gap is not only disturbing; it's alarming. I'm here to try to understand and close the achievement gap.''
 The principals began to grill him. Even if the kids do respond to the cash incentives, one principal asked, what happens next year, when they aren't getting paid? Won't students in other grades be resentful? What will parents think when their kids start receiving cash in the mail every few weeks? 
 Fryer addressed each issue as best he could. But one question kept coming back at him: if we start paying students to test well, aren't we sending the message that learning is not its own reward? Although the exchange flustered him, Fryer had by meeting's end persuaded the principals to take part. Afterward, though, he took no joy in his success. He knew there were still plenty of bureaucratic hurdles ahead. What's more, he is not given to bragging. Typically, the first words out of his mouth after any presentation are ''they hated it.''
 Long ago, Fryer made a vow that he would always be so hard on himself that it wouldn't hurt when others were hard on him. He told me this one night at his house in Cambridge. He and wife, Lisa, a graduate student in elementary education, were showing me his childhood photo album. It was one of the saddest photo albums you will ever see. A few baby pictures, then a picture from Pee Wee football and then . . . nothing until high-school graduation. Where was Roland Fryer during all those years? Or, really, where were the people who should have been snapping pictures of him?
 His full name is Roland Gehrard Fryer Jr. Two years ago, as he was entering the job market, the name suddenly led him to panic. He worried that some university dean might Google it and see that Roland Gerard Fryer was convicted of a 1993 sexual assault in Lewisville, Tex. But that wasn't Roland; that was his father.
 The more Fryer told me about himself, the more it became clear that his research is directly, even painfully, inspired by his own past. Here were the bare facts of his early life, as he related them. He was born in Florida. His mother left when he was very young, so he lived with his father, who sold copy machines for Xerox, and when Roland was 4, they moved to Texas. He spent summers in Florida with his grandmother Fat and begged her to let him stay permanently. But always he was returned to his father in Texas.
 I was curious to know more. Fryer, who sometimes seemed torn between wanting to explain himself and wanting to obliterate his childhood entirely, agreed to accompany me on a tour of his past. On one level he seemed to be dreading the trip, but on another, I think he was eager to show an outsider the distance he had traveled -- and perhaps to square things off for himself as well.
 Roland Fryer Sr., now 54, had recently moved back in with his own mother -- Roland's grandmother Fat -- after being released from prison. So our trip began with a visit to Daytona Beach. The houses in Fat's neighborhood were grim, brick and cement block with ragged yards and bars on the windows. Her living room was dark and cluttered. Roland, Fat and I sat on plastic slipcovers and talked. I asked how on earth Roland had become a Harvard professor. 
 Fat looked at him before she answered. ''I think I did a little bit,'' she said. ''Did I help you, JuJu?''
 That was his nickname here, JuJu. He gave an uneasy smile. Soon his father came in. The two men said hello. Fat went into the kitchen, and Roland Sr. sat down. 
 He said that he had grown up in this very house. He studied business at Bethune-Cookman, a nearby black college, and then held a series of jobs, none for very long. He met his future wife when she sang backup for Roy Clark, the country musician, at the high school where he taught math.
 ''You were a math teacher?'' his son asked. 
 ''Mm-hmm. Tenth grade.''
 I asked Roland Sr. how he and not his wife wound up with Roland when they split.
 ''I loved my son so much that I wanted to make sure he lived a certain type of lifestyle,'' he said. ''I didn't want him to be in an environment that was not conducive to be the person he is right now.''
 At this, his son turned away.
 And what kind of teenager, I asked, was Roland?
 ''Not a bad kid,'' his father replied. ''Matter of fact, he and I used to be so close when we lived together that we would remind each other when we didn't spend enough time together.''
 Now his son stomped out of the room. Roland Sr. talked for a while longer and then said he had to leave. Roland Jr. came back in, looking grim. After dinner, driving toward our hotel, he vacillated between anger and bitter silence. His father's version of their life together, he said, was ''total bull.'' 
 The next morning we flew to Dallas. Twenty minutes north of the airport lay Lewisville, an unremarkable city of about 80,000. Fryer drove us past the home where he had lived with his father, a tidy, tan brick ranch on a wide pleasant street. 
 When he was in third grade, he said, his father started to deteriorate: he drank heavily and beat a girlfriend so badly, in front of Roland, that she ended up in the hospital. Once, when his father left town and returned to find the house a mess, he beat Roland with a length of garden hose. By the time he was 13, Roland was bigger than his father. Though his father denies it, Roland says that one night they had a brutal fight. ''I told him if he ever touched me again, I'd kill him,'' Roland said. 
 When Roland was in the ninth grade, his father was fired from Xerox for sexual harassment. He passed his days gambling and drinking. Roland made sure to be asleep by the time his father came home from the bar and to be out of the house before he awoke in the morning. Roland was a star athlete, in football and basketball, which made things a little easier. But he was angry at everybody, all the time, and was essentially left to raise himself. 
 At 13, he forged his birth certificate to get a job at McDonald's. When he could, he told me, he stole from the cash register. He sold counterfeit Dooney & Burke purses out of the trunk of his car -- a tricked-out 1984 Monte Carlo that he wasn't nearly old enough to drive legally. With a friend, he recounted, he would go into Dallas, buy a pound of marijuana for $700 and sell it back in Lewisville for $1,400. He carried a .357 Magnum and one night, in a fight outside a Citgo station, almost used it on a white man. ''I didn't care if I lived or died,'' he said now as we idled in the parking lot of that same Citgo station. ''I always think I'm supposed to be dead, not alive, much less at Harvard.'' 
 We stopped to eat lunch at a dimly lighted sports bar called the Point After North. ''Right over there, against that wall,'' Fryer told me, ''is where my father's rape case began.'' Roland Fryer Sr. was 43 at the time. After a night of drinking, he went home with two women who were sisters. One of them would later say that she went to sleep and woke up to find Fryer having sex with her. Roland Jr. was horrified and ashamed when the arrest made the local newspaper. He had to bail his own father out of jail. 
 He was 15 years old and couldn't see how his life could get much worse. Then one day while driving his Monte Carlo, he was pulled over by the police. They drew their guns and made him lie on the pavement. He was less humiliated than petrified; he wasn't half the thug he had imagined himself. The one thought he could muster was this: what will my grandmother think if I'm thrown in jail? The police, all of whom were white, questioned him for a few hours -- they thought he was a crack dealer -- and then sent him home. Later that day, some friends called. They had planned a burglary for that night, and told Fryer they were on their way to pick him up. He begged off. His friends did the burglary anyway and wound up in jail.
 Fryer points to that day as his road-to-Damascus moment. He can't quite explain what provoked the change -- the fear of jail, perhaps, or of death or of his grandmother's wrath. Or it may be that everyone, at some point, has to choose the kind of person he hopes to be. But after that terrible day of two near-misses, Fryer stopped doing the bad things he had been doing. 
 At 18, he entered the University of Texas at Arlington on an athletic scholarship. For the first time in his life, Fryer started to study. He liked it; more important, he discovered he had a good brain and a God-given capacity to outwork his peers. He once tried to share his enthusiasm with his father, but he didn't get the response he was looking for. ''I don't care how much education you get or how successful you become, because you'll always be a nigger,'' he says his father replied.
 While carrying a full course load at Arlington, Fryer held down a job (he owed his father's bail bondsman) and took extra credits at a local community college. He also managed to meet Lisa during this period. He was efficiency incarnate, earning an economics degree in two and a half years.
 He entered graduate school at Penn State University, and it was there, early on, that he realized the power of economics to study race. ''We learned all these powerful math tools that were very deep, very insightful, and were being used to solve -- you know, silly problems, frankly,'' he says. ''At the same time, you'd look on TV and see people literally yelling at each other about affirmative action, bringing up anecdotal stories of one white guy who lost his house and his wife and his kids. The whole debate could be turned by bringing in some horrible travesty. And I thought, here's the exact way that these tools should be used.''
 He attended a conference at which Glenn Loury, the prominent black economist, presented a paper on antidiscrimination laws. ''He came up afterwards and said: 'Gee, that's an interesting idea. I'd like to work with you on that,''' Loury recalls. ''I said: 'A lot of people would like to work with me. Who are you?' But it was enough to make me want to get to know this kid.'' 
 Fryer had acquired his first big-time mentor. In similar fashion, he soon found a second, James Heckman, who invited Fryer to the University of Chicago to continue his graduate research. Heckman is a Nobel laureate whose research suggests that if disadvantaged kids don't acquire life skills at an early age, it is quite difficult for them to catch up. In Fryer, he had found a glaring anomaly. After barely three years in graduate school, Fryer completed his dissertation, ''Mathematical Models of Discrimination and Inequality.'' And so it was that at 25 he was fielding calls from Larry Summers and Skip Gates, imploring him to choose Harvard.
 The final stop on our tour of Fryer's past was Tulsa, Okla. His mother, Rita, lives there with her second husband, Harold, in a black working-class neighborhood. 
 During his first year of college, Fryer had a brief but intense fling with religiosity. It was then that he first tracked down his mother. He had been working on forgiveness, and he wanted to forgive his mother for abandoning him. But he couldn't get past the old hurt. ''I kept asking, 'Why didn't you come find me?''' he said. ''And then it just turned to complete anger on my part. I said: 'Do you understand what I went through? I went through all this [expletive], and you didn't come rescue me.'''
 On this day, however, Roland's mother explained that things weren't as simple as Roland had assumed. She didn't ''abandon'' him, she said. In fact, when she and Roland Sr. split, she moved back to Tulsa with her son -- Fryer looked confused; he never knew he had lived in Tulsa -- but then, Rita said, Roland Sr. came and, against her wishes, took the boy. ''We searched and searched, spent money and spent money, but we finally gave up.''
 Fryer seemed to believe his mother, at least partly. As she spoke, his manner shifted; he let down the wall that generally restrains his emotions; the conversation turned tender. When he mentioned that he used to play the saxophone, his mother brightened. ''My whole family was musical, you know,'' she said. Her mother, it turned out, attended Juilliard and played eight instruments. An uncle was a saxophonist with Duke Ellington. Her family, she said, had been a real force in Tulsa, running restaurants and a variety of other businesses.
 ''They really were the Talented Tenth,'' Harold said.
 Fryer smiled. The concept of the Talented Tenth was promoted by none other than W.E.B. DuBois. It referred to the need for an educated black elite -- the top 10 percent -- that would serve as example and inspiration to their brethren.
 Later that night, over Scotch and soda at an airport hotel in Tulsa, Fryer sifted through the discoveries of his trip. He hadn't known that his father was a math teacher. He hadn't known that so much accomplishment ran in his mother's family. ''I used to consider myself a genetic aberration or maybe an impostor,'' he said. ''But I actually have some pretty good genes.''
 He had come up with one more factor, however slight, to plug into the increasingly complicated calculus whose answer is Roland G. Fryer Jr.
 Ryer has never wanted to be white or to even act it. He loves black culture, high and low, and says that the worst thing about Cambridge is that it offers no psychic connection to his roots.
 In DuBois's book ''The Souls of Black Folk,'' there is a heartbreaking passage in which he describes how white men look at him and ask, with their eyes only, ''How does it feel to be a problem?'' In the rarefied world that Fryer inhabits, he sometimes feels a similar question land upon him, a question that is subtler but even more troubling: how does it feel to be an exception?
 Last summer in Cambridge, he was driving across town to present a paper. One of his research assistants, Alex, rode along; 50 Cent was on the stereo. The paper -- about the slave trade/salt-sensitivity theory -- was potentially controversial, and Fryer now mentioned that one of his co-authors, Ed Glaeser, would be sitting up front while Fryer presented.
 ''It'll be good to have an ally,'' Alex said casually.
 Fryer glowered. ''You doubt me? You doubt me? What are you trying to say? You're saying I'm only here because of affirmative action?''
 Alex, who is white, looked stricken. Then Fryer broke out in a big boom of a laugh. Alex looked at least partly relieved.
 A few days earlier, I asked Fryer how it felt to be one of a very, very few blacks in his field. It stinks, he said. ''I'd rather be on an absolute standard, where being black doesn't matter.'' He is convinced that Harvard did not hire him because of affirmative action -- and if he found out otherwise, he said, he would quit tomorrow. He is neither opposed nor in favor of affirmative action in the absolute; to him, the more relevant factors are the timing and degree of its implementation. But like DuBois, he can always feel an accusation hovering. 
 That may be why he has talked so little about his past. Most people I spoke to about Fryer had only a shadowy sense of his upbringing. He never wanted to score any sympathy points, nor did he want to give his colleagues the opportunity to dismiss him as a freak accident, an exception to the standard rules of academic success -- which might imply that Harvard is not a normative goal for a young black man in the first place. There is also the fact that Fryer's particular science places a high premium on avoiding the personal, the anecdotal. The data are what matter in economics, and the more ruthlessness that an economist can summon to make sense of the data, the more useful his findings will be. 
 Fryer seems to have successfully internalized this creed. He once told me, without a hint of irony or self-pity, that his upbringing, while generally awful, actually provides an advantage. I asked why. 
 ''My father screwed me over so bad that he made my emotions like a lever,'' he said. ''I learned how to turn them off and on. And that's what's needed when you study race.''
 So here is Fryer's final anomaly: he is a man who revels in his blackness and yet also says he believes, as DuBois believed, that black underachievement cannot entirely be laid at the feet of discrimination. Fryer has a huge appetite for advocacy but a far larger appetite for science, and as a scientist he won't exclude any possibilities, including black behaviors, from the menu of factors that contribute to the black condition. His school-incentive project in New York would call upon this entire menu: it seeks to provide an empirical means to measure the theoretical effect of ''acting white''; it engages the economist's belief in the power of incentives to change an environment; and it allows for the overlooked abilities of any given child to flourish. The project might do the most good for the kind of child Fryer himself once was: a kid who belongs to the Talented Tenth but just doesn't know it yet.
 The very issue of black-white inequality has, in recent years, been practically driven from public view. But according to the data that Fryer lives with, the inequality itself hasn't gone away. There have been countless distractions -- wars, economic gyrations, political turmoil -- and, perhaps just as significantly, fatigue. The proven voices and standard ideologies have lost much of their power. So there is an opportunity, and probably a need, for a new set of voices, and Roland Fryer, though he would never say it aloud, wants desperately for his to be among them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Roland Fryer, about 4, at his grandmother Fat's house in Daytona Beach, Fla., where he sometimes lived. The man could not be identified. (Photographs by Alessandra Petlin
 Roland G. Fryer Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); INFANT MORTALITY (63%); ETHNIC GROUPS (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); ETHNICITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



415 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words

 BODY:
An article last Sunday about turmoil in Erie, Pa., over the legalization of slot machine gambling referred incompletely to a provision of state law that calls for machine revenues to be used for property tax rebates. To qualify, school boards must give up their power to increase property taxes above a state inflation index -- not their power to increase property taxes in general.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (86%); GAMING (85%); INFLATION (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



416 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Oil in Arctic Refuge 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''More Energy Follies'' (editorial, March 15):
 The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge's coastal plain was set aside specifically for potential oil and natural gas exploration in 1980. Yes, we need a worthy energy strategy, but the refuge, as the Senate has recognized, should be a part of it. So, too, should greater energy efficiency and diversification, and development of other domestic oil and natural gas supplies.
 The potential oil from the refuge cannot be dismissed. Projected production equal to 20 years of current imports from Saudi Arabia is significant, particularly when we are reminded daily of the need for greater energy security. And you are too quick to discount the industry's demonstrated ability to use technology to protect the environment .
 Emotionalism won't power economic growth or create jobs. As President Bush said, we need affordable, reliable and secure energy supplies. Inaction imposes a burden on consumers.

Red Cavaney
President and Chief Executive
American Petroleum Institute
Washington, March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); WILDLIFE (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL EXPLORATION (88%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



417 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Unions and Immigrants

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 One reason labor unions are suffering (''Union Labor, Squeezed From All Directions,'' March 13) is the total lack of enforcement of our immigration laws. 
 Contractors can pick up illegal immigrants on many street corners and have them work for a fraction of the cost of union labor. These contractors avoid paying taxes or Social Security; the union member is unemployed and we pay for his unemployment. These contractors are able to bid on jobs at prices no law-abiding contractor can and still make a tremendous profit.
 Unless we enforce our immigration and work laws and prevent the use of illegal labor, the American middle class will suffer more and more.

Robert F. LaPorta
Dix Hills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



418 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 6; Style Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: ID Economics

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''In the ID Wars, the Fakes Gain,'' the simplest way to better keep terrorists off planes may be to lower the drinking age, which would end the demand for these ID factories.

Max Kornblith
Oberlin, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



419 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 64 words

HEADLINE: Was Churchill a Neoconservative?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Churchill a neocon? I don't think so. 
 He famously once said, ''To jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war'' -- a proposition decisively rejected by the neocons.
 He also served in the liberal government of the early 1900's that introduced old-age pensions and unemployment insurance and labor exchanges -- all anathema to today's neocons.

Martin G. Evans
Cambridge, Mass.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



420 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: UNEMPLOYMENT IS UP

BYLINE: By George James

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate in February increased to 4.4 percent, up markedly from the four-year- low in January of 3.9 percent, according to the state Department of Labor and Workforce Development. At the same time, the state gained 7,900 jobs, after losing a revised 2,700 jobs in January. George James

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



421 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Ticket; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Doggie Baggage

 BODY:
Imagine you and your dog on a guided hiking tour of the Dordogne, Provence or the Napa Valley -- all destinations offered by the Europaws division of the California-based vacation packager Europeds (www.europeds.com). Now picture you and Fido receiving tandem massages at the Las Ventanas al Paraiso resort in Los Cabos, Mexico (www.lasventanas.com), which also features special chef-prepared menus for canine guests. These are real travel options available right now; the only obstacle for big dogs is getting there.
 Rock stars and business travelers who can afford it travel with their pets by private plane. For the rest of us, there are commercial flights, on which animals -- who now get frequent-flier miles on United and Midwest -- may ride in most airplanes' cabins, but only if they are small enough to fit in an approved underseat carrier or if they are licensed service animals like Seeing-Eye dogs. Larger canines must travel unsupervised in the cargo hold. And that's where the trouble starts. It's common for them to be loaded onto the wrong flight, suffer rough handling or poor ventilation, escape their crates or, worse, die while waiting on a freezing or boiling tarmac.
 For decades, a luxury ocean liner was a big dog's only option. Seafaring dog lovers routinely booked passage aboard the Queen Elizabeth 2 to England, where bonded transport was arranged to shepherd them from the ship's kennel to a waiting ferry bound for France. By never actually touching down on British soil, the dog avoided a six-month quarantine. (This has since been revised; for details visit www.defra.gov.uk.) Now that the QE2 is retired from service, her successor, the Queen Mary 2 (www.cunard.com), offers the trip for $500.
 Speaking of the Continent, Alitalia will let you fly on one of its Boeing 747 cargo planes bound for Milan, equipped with six seats and plenty of storage space. (These planes are regularly used to transport articles of extraordinary value, like horses, whose size and power demand that they be accompanied at all times in flight by a professional horse handler.) Dogs with the appropriate health certificates for their destination countries fly in airline-approved crates (the best on the market are made by Teja's Crates), while their owners sit a short flight of stairs away so that they can check up on their best friends during the seven-hour journey. To book, call Mersant International (718-978-8200); arrangements must be made at least 10 days in advance to allow time for a security background check. For two 80-pound dogs, the cost is $3,500 each way, plus the price of the seats, which sell at normal airfare rates.
 That's not cheap, but it's less than chartering an aircraft through Jetworks (www.jetworkszcard.com). A $1,000 membership fee and another $80,500 will get you from Teterboro, N.J., to Rome and back in a midsize Hawker 1000 (cabin capacity: nine people and four big dogs); Paris is closer, so it's $70,700. It's up to you to split the cost by filling that plane with like-minded dog lovers. 
 Richard Branson is banking on sending two-legged tourists to space on Virgin Galactic. This begs the question: why can't some entrepreneur create an airline just for dog lovers, with passenger seats attached to designer crates? The economic incentive is there -- the pet industry, now a healthy $34 billion a year, according to the American Pet Product Manufacturing Association (which also reports that 15 million Americans travel with their pets annually), has been growing steadily even in weak economic periods. Considering how big-dog lovers have already contributed their share to that figure, smart money says that they'd be more than happy to pay extra for the privilege of traveling alongside their animal companions.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Frequent barker miles: coffee, T-bone or milk? (Photograph by BRIAN FINKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PETS (89%); AIR FARES (88%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (88%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (75%); HORSES (75%); AIR FREIGHT (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); HIKING (73%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (69%); FERRIES (69%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); AQUITAINE, FRANCE (73%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ENGLAND (74%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



422 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: The Mickey Mouse Club

BYLINE: By John Leonard. 
John Leonard reviews books for Harper's Magazine and television for New York.

 BODY:

DISNEYWAR
By James B. Stewart.
Illustrated. 572 pp.
Simon & Schuster. $29.95.
 FULSOME disclosure: In the fraught 1950's, not long after the theme park opened in Anaheim, Calif., I should have been kicked off the jungle boat at Disneyland for thinking impure thoughts about Annette Funicello. 
 I am sorry to say that James B. Stewart, than whom there is no more diligent reporter, locates few such meaning-saturated moments in the life or career of Michael Eisner, feudal liege of the Magic Kingdom since 1984. ''DisneyWar,'' oddly, is a very long book about Hollywood with no sex, no drugs, nor any rock 'n' roll, unless we count Elton John's tuning up ''The Lion King.'' It doesn't even allege any criminal behavior; we aren't talking about Enron or Adelphia. When the Mouseketeers aren't eavesdropping on your phone calls, reading your e-mail or betraying your confidence, what they do instead of steal is lie -- to one another, themselves, the press, the courts, in your face and behind your back. 
 Eisner himself, 502 pages in, will babble to Larry King about his visit to Walt Disney's secret unmarked grave, when he knows that a memorial containing Walt's ashes is open to the public at Forest Lawn. What possesses the man to taradiddle? What does he need that he wasn't given? He was born rich in New York City; grew up on Park Avenue and attended private schools; graduated from Denison University, where he was president of a fraternity and wrote plays about Woodrow Wilson and Walt Whitman; joined Barry Diller at ABC, where he quoted Willa Cather while producing sitcoms like ''Welcome Back, Kotter''; then followed Diller to Paramount, where he hired Jeffrey Katzenberg as his ''golden retriever'' to fetch TV shows like ''Laverne and Shirley'' and movies like ''Flashdance''; after which, in 1984, despite never having seen ''Snow White'' or ''Sleeping Beauty'' he would be anointed Prince of Disney's Many Disorders, and by 1988 become corporate America's highest-paid executive, at $40 million per, counting bonus and stock options. 
 Why then from the giddy heights of clairvoyant master of the hermetic secrets of mass marketing and family values -- ordaining an annual 20 percent growth in earnings and gain in stock price to wow Wall Street, firing a thousand employees in his first 12 months, changing the Disney culture from afternoon card games, Tuesday night softball and a new animated feature every four years to ''bigger, better, faster, cheaper'' and a new animated feature every year and a half -- should he end up more like Haile Selassie, Captain Queeg and Rumpelstiltskin? 
 See Eisner promise anything but sabotage anyone foolish enough to trust him, from old friends like Jeffrey Katzenberg, who had to sue to get his contract honored, and Michael Ovitz, who wouldn't leave the building after he was fired, to old Disneys like Walt's nephew Roy and his business partner Stanley Gold, who brought Eisner to Anaheim in the first place and for their pains were purged, to such brilliant and abused collaborators as Steve Jobs at Pixar and the Weinstein brothers at Miramax, to all the talented hired hands for whom Disney was a revolving door, lynching bee and trampoline on their way to DreamWorks, Comcast or Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. They must have been out to get him, or disagreed with something he said, or reminded him that someone else deserved some credit, or turned out to be ''wimps.'' But he does not play well with others, and the others are gone like Shane. 
 Weird. Because a shareholder revolt stripped Eisner of his chairmanship last year and forced him to promise to replace himself as C.E.O. in 2006, James Stewart is reminded of Henry IV, Richard III and other Shakespeare monarchs. But there is not enough noble rot to begin with. And while mention is made early on of a demanding father who insisted that his son call him Lester, and David Geffen is later quoted darkly suggesting something ''very, very damaged in his background,'' not a single Freudian bean is spilled. In this motion picture, there is no smoking Rosebud. 
 Those of us with a professional interest in how big-screen movies, small-screen TV programs and Broadway musicals get made will devour Stewart's lubricious details on what Eisner, with help, got right: ''Good Morning, Vietnam,'' ''The Little Mermaid,'' ''The Lion King'' and the New Amsterdam Theater. And on what, with avarice and arrogance, he shouldn't have done but did: Euro Disney, Fox Family, ''Pearl Harbor.'' And on what he should have done but, with cruelty and condescension, didn't: ''The Lord of the Rings,'' Yahoo, ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' ''CSI.'' How nice to know that Lloyd Braun deserves the credit for ''Lost'' and Susan Lyne for ''Desperate Housewives''; how un-nice that it cost them their jobs. And if Eisner is to be congratulated for brushing off Steve Case of AOL as if he were a vampire bat, he is to be reviled for letting Jimmy Kimmel instead of Jon Stewart replace Bill Maher on late-night ABC TV.
 Those of us with a taste for abuse can revel in what James Stewart expertly culls from a multitude of interviews, the verbatim notes the journalist Tony Schwartz took for Eisner's autobiography, transcripts of court hearings and correspondence with lawyers. About Katzenberg, a colleague for 19 years, Eisner says, ''I hate the little midget.'' About Ovitz, a friend for 30: a ''cancer'' and ''a psychopath.'' About Apple's Steve Jobs, who bought out the George Lucas share of Pixar when Eisner wouldn't: ''It's impossible to negotiate with Steve Jobs. Jobs is a Shiite Muslim.'' Still, who knows? As Stewart reluctantly concludes, Eisner's ''most glaring defect'' is ''his dishonesty.''
 But those of us who grew up dreaming of teaching, journalism or nonprofit social service, for whom the point of an economy is to provide jobs, food, medicine and space for its citizens, for whom leveraged buyouts, hostile takeovers, prestaggered cash flows and capital liquidity ratios were a superstitious sort of Pythagorean number mysticism -- who have always rooted for Jesse James, Calamity Jane and Willy Loman against railroads, Daddy Warbucks and J. R. Ewing, who have lined up with deerslayers and river pirates against J. P. Morgan as immortalized by Steichen, the avatars of Donald the Vulgarian and the severed ear of a kidnapped Getty -- are nauseated by the celebrity chic of the megapolists who show up every year at Herb Allen's Sun Valley media and entertainment conference to get their mugs shot by Annie Leibovitz for Vanity Fair, who would have fired Franz Kafka for looking in his mirror, seeing the modern corporation and inventing workmen's comp, who might even have been happier in Regency England, when the poor were hanged for poaching rabbits. But then we have also wondered why the downsized and homeless haven't stoned the smoky windows and slashed the radial tires of every stretch limo on the streets of the imperial city.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); ANIMATED FILMS (75%); FAMILY (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (63%); DOGS (62%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (74%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (74%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (74%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (55%); BARRY DILLER (55%); ELTON JOHN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



423 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2999 words

HEADLINE: The Company He Keeps (for Now)

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BLOOMBERG the mayor is preparing for a re-election bid. Bloomberg the data terminal is as popular as ever. Bloomberg the newsroom feels oppressed. And Bloomberg the company has been dogged by rumors of a possible sale.
 For every Bloomberg there is an opinion, because every Bloomberg is in transition. In a freewheeling discussion at a public event in New York last November, Michael R. Bloomberg, the city's mayor, said he planned someday to sell Bloomberg L.P., the eponymous vendor of financial information and news that he founded in 1981 and upon which his vast fortune is based.
 ''I will not go back to the company,'' the 63-year-old mayor said, according to The New York Post. ''What I'd like to do is eventually I will sell because if I don't my estate will have to, and I want to run a foundation.'' 
 The timing of any sale will hinge on how the mayor fares in the voting booths this fall. His political fortunes have risen and fallen over the last four years; if he wins re-election, a sale of the company is unlikely to occur for several years. If the mayor loses, a sale could come sooner. While valuing privately held companies is an inexact science, analysts said Bloomberg L.P. could fetch anywhere from $7 billion to $9 billion on the auction block. That would value the mayor's 72 percent stake in his company in the $5 billion to $6.5 billion range.
 The company's senior management insists that no sale is imminent. Besides, they said, selling the company would endanger Bloomberg's unique corporate culture. ''We have the great fortune of being a private company, and that allows us to invest in the long term,'' said Peter Grauer, a former investment banker who is the company's chairman. ''And the business model that Mike started here has just gotten stronger and stronger and there's no desire to change that. A sale is not something we're spending any time thinking about. We are and will always be a private company.'' 
 Even so, Bloomberg is navigating complicated waters as it matures from a hot little start-up into a tightly run and highly visible corporation that insiders said racked up sales of about $3.5 billion last year. When it was founded, the company's culture was a reflection of Mr. Bloomberg's own persona -- creative, experimental, nonhierarchical, industrious. In many ways, it was a byproduct of the macho, confrontational debates that were hallmarks of the Wall Street trading floors whence Mr. Bloomberg sprang. Today, his baby has grown and the company is trying to foster a more disciplined management style while preserving the entrepreneurial strengths that spawned its success.
 Three weeks ago, Bloomberg's top ranks shuffled responsibilities, a move that Mr. Grauer and other senior executives said was in keeping with the company's fondness for innovation. They said the changes were intended to build upon record sales over the last few years. The realignment consolidated Mr. Grauer's power at the top of the company while stripping Lex Fenwick, the company's chief executive officer, of duties other than continued oversight of Bloomberg's vaunted sales force. Two others, Tom Secunda, who heads research and development, and Matthew Winkler, who oversees the media operations, were elevated to equal status with Mr. Fenwick; all three men now report to Mr. Grauer.
 But people inside and outside the company, all of whom requested anonymity, said other forces prompted the management overhaul. They said friction between Mr. Grauer and Mr. Fenwick and employees' distaste for Mr. Fenwick's capricious and authoritarian leadership were the main reasons for the shifts. 
 Not so, say Mr. Grauer and Mr. Fenwick. ''Peter and I do not hate each other and we've always gotten along incredibly well,'' said Mr. Fenwick, whom Mr. Bloomberg appointed as chief executive before he left the company for City Hall in 2001. ''It's not like I've never had an argument with anybody, but I wouldn't be here 18 years if I didn't like the people I work with.''
 Some at Bloomberg say outsiders confuse a passion for vigorous discussion, constant productivity, excellence -- and loyalty to the ''Bloomberg Way'' -- with the suppression of independent thought or a sweatshop atmosphere. They also note that the company has always offered handsome compensation and generous benefits, and continues to do so.
 ''Peter and Lex have done a better job of getting results out of Bloomberg [the company] than Bloomberg [the mayor]'' did, said Mr. Winkler, who oversees the company's media operations. ''We're still an adolescent in an industry full of mature companies. The single biggest challenge for us at Bloomberg is learning to be prepared. As Patton used to say, luck is when preparation meets opportunity.''
 THAT Mr. Winkler would evoke a hard-nosed World War II general is in keeping with what Bloomberg's newsroom workers describe as a dictatorial management style. A labor union-sponsored Web site is peppered with complaints from unidentified employees that are consistent with what Bloomberg reporters said in interviews: Mr. Winkler is described as ''the evil-tempered Matt 'Tantrum' Winkler,'' the ''emperor,'' ''dysfunctional'' and ''ham-fisted.'' 
 Mr. Winkler, who built the news operation from scratch starting in 1990 and is also described by some as a dedicated, competitive newsman, contests this assessment of his management style. He pointed to the journalism awards Bloomberg reporters have won, his ability to recruit talent, and the fact that there is no shortage of resumes from people who would like to work for him.
 ''If things are so static and restrictive, why have so many people risen and flourished here?'' he asked. ''I think lots of people would like to have our morale problems. We ask a lot of everybody.''
 Journalists, of course, are inveterate whiners and newsrooms tend to be hotbeds of dissatisfaction. But even by that standard, Mr. Winkler's reign has invoked some serious concerns at the company.
 Jane Bryant Quinn, a Newsweek columnist and a member of Bloomberg's board of directors, wrote to Mr. Grauer within the last year, calling his attention to problems in the newsroom. ''There are certainly morale issues in the newsroom, just like there have been morale issues in the newsroom of The New York Times,'' Ms. Quinn said in an interview. ''But I consider communication between Peter and me to be a matter of board confidentiality. Certainly, the company continues to be successful.''
 Whatever is responsible for roiling the executive suites at Bloomberg, analysts said the company, which is in the midst of moving into impressive new headquarters on Manhattan's Upper East Side, has reached a crucial crossroads.
 ''Whether or not it's about shifting power dynamics among executives, it is symptomatic of the opening of the Bloomberg culture and the growing public influence of Grauer,'' said Samara Zwanger, executive editor of Inside Market Data, which tracks the financial data industry. ''It will be interesting to see how this plays out.''
 HOW things play out will be heavily influenced by Mr. Bloomberg. Regardless of how much he has publicly distanced himself from his company since becoming mayor, he remains Bloomberg's single largest shareholder and his personal wealth is directly linked to the company's fortunes. The mayor declined to be interviewed for this article, but people with direct knowledge of Bloomberg's inner workings said he holds sway through the company's board. While the eight-member board has a loose advisory role, its executive committee, which acts a guardian of the mayor's interests, has much more power, these people said.
 Besides Mr. Grauer, who is one of Mr. Bloomberg's closest friends, the executive committee includes three others who are the mayor's confidantes and advisers: Martin Geller, an accountant who runs his own New York firm; Richard K. DeScherer, an attorney at Willkie, Farr & Gallagher, a New York firm that handles most of Bloomberg's legal affairs; and Hugh P. Lowenstein, an investor based in Bermuda. Other than Mr. Grauer, none of the men returned phone calls seeking comment.
 ''They have an active role in the company, over the stewardship of the company,'' Judith Czelusniak, a Bloomberg L.P. spokeswoman, said of the executive committee. ''They're all very hands-on, very active in the company. Equally so.'' She added, ''They have to look over the interests of the company's shareholders, and Mike's the biggest shareholder.''
 No one has suggested that there is anything nefarious about the mayor's relationship with the company, and Bloomberg's management insists that Mr. Bloomberg has maintained his distance since decamping for City Hall. ''He is not engaged at all,'' said Mr. Grauer. ''He has totally made the break from his responsibilities with the company.''
 New York's Conflicts of Interests Board allows the mayor to be involved with four broad areas at Bloomberg: the sale of all or part of the company; the sale or purchase of a large asset; major financial commitments like loans; and changes in compensation or structure. 
 If sales talks gain real traction, Mr. Bloomberg will presumably be closely involved. Merrill Lynch holds a 20 percent stake in Bloomberg and is among a large group of securities firms that underwrite city bonds; City Hall has previously said that the mayor goes out of his way to avoid any conflicts in the selection of Merrill as an underwriter for any municipal transactions.
 In an oft-told tale, Mr. Bloomberg, a former bond trader, started his company with a $10 million severance check he snared when he was fired as manager of information technology at Salomon Brothers, a big bond house that later merged into what is now Citigroup. He and Mr. Secunda soon formed a small group that packaged bond data inside little terminals later known as Bloombergs, at a time when there was a dearth of easily accessible market information. As years passed, Mr. Bloomberg and his team layered more and more proprietary information into the Bloombergs, until the machines became vast encyclopedias of the financial world.
 The terminals also had messaging functions in the days before e-mail became widespread, and the Bloomberg network became a popular lifeline connecting Wall Street's inhabitants. While Bloomberg devices now offer thousands of functions, messaging remains the most popular. 
 Early Bloomberg users needed to pick their way around the terminals using arcane commands and interfaces, many of which persist today. Mr. Bloomberg believed that once people were trained in how to use a Bloomberg terminal, no matter how confusing, it would make them less inclined to switch to other systems. He also insisted that every new service or data point be bundled inside the Bloomberg and never sold separately, increasing the value of the machine and allowing the company to charge a premium to use one.
 When the mayor started his venture, all of the company's data resided on a disc he could slip out of a washing machine-sized computer each night and pack safely in his briefcase for the trip home. Today, the company has warehouse-sized server farms that store Bloomberg data; to avert disruptions in service, back-up systems reside at three undisclosed locations, two in the United States and one in Europe.
 As the company's data universe expanded, Mr. Bloomberg and those he hired crafted a sales culture built on two concepts: nonstop, guerrilla efforts to circumvent the purchasing departments at big companies and establish a direct relationship with end users, and an unflagging emphasis on meeting users' needs and providing top-drawer service to cement that relationship. Having Bloomberg terminals on their desks became a sign of prestige for traders as much as it was a tool for helping them make buckets of money. Many users stipulated in their employment contracts that a Bloomberg would be a perk.
 ''The company does have a unique culture and it's a sales culture,'' said Arthur Levitt, a member of Bloomberg's board and a former head of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''Bells ring when terminals are sold. Parties are held. And the service provided to customers is just extraordinary.''
 As financial markets zoomed in the 1990's, so did installations of Bloomberg machines. Annual terminal sales soared 28 percent in 1997, 22 percent in 1998 and 17 percent the next year, before cooling down to single-digit growth rates thereafter. But even during the stock market downturn in 2000, and a widespread belief that the Internet boom foretold the demise of proprietary information providers like Bloomberg, the company's crack sales force managed to post sales gains. There are now more than 200,000 Bloomberg terminals flashing atop desks worldwide.
 The data business is dominated by Bloomberg and Reuters P.L.C. They control about 83 percent of the $7 billion industry, with Bloomberg edging out Reuters with a 43 percent share, according to Inside Market Data. Analysts said that Reuters had been at a disadvantage recently. ''They're not seeing any sharp growth, it's just slow and steady,'' said Ms. Zwanger of Inside Market Data. ''What has helped Bloomberg historically is their ability to go directly to the end user and bypass market data managers who might otherwise say it's too expensive.''
 A Reuters spokeswoman said the company had a more diverse revenue mix than Bloomberg and that her firm was ''excited by long-term growth prospects.''
 Bloomberg employs about 8,000 people, 1,600 of whom work on the news side. About 97 percent of the company's revenues come from terminal sales, meaning that the media division's contribution to Bloomberg's bottom line is negligible. But the company's management argues that the media unit's overall impact on the company is hard to quantify because the firm gains intangible marketing benefits from having a substantial news operation.
 Nonetheless, Bloomberg's future is not dependent on its media unit, which are mostly an appendage to the company's core business of selling data. In that capacity, Mr. Secunda, who leads data gathering and has a long history with Mr. Bloomberg, is a pivotal figure at the firm.
 ''The most important guy in the company is Tom Secunda because he's in charge of protecting our proprietary economics,'' said Thomas R. Keene, an editor at large for Bloomberg's news unit.
 And Mr. Secunda said overall morale at Bloomberg, despite newsroom discontent, was just fine. ''We have a dynamic group of people and we strive to have a meritocracy,'' he said. ''That means you're going to have some people who are unhappy, some who are sort of happy, and some who are really happy. I would hope and think that the vast majority are really happy.''
 BUT Mr. Secunda, a relatively subdued, self-effacing member of the Bloomberg cult, was not the person tapped to run the company when the mayor left four years ago. Instead, Mr. Fenwick was anointed as chief executive. 
 At the time, Mr. Fenwick had chalked up extraordinary sales gains while managing the company's European sales force, and Mr. Bloomberg brought the British manager to New York to work the same magic here. Mr. Fenwick, tall, lithe and bald, is Mr. Secunda's antithesis. Mr. Fenwick is a kinetic, sharply tailored quipster and a font of colorful profanities who employees say can direct his passions abusively or inspirationally. 
 To keep tabs on Mr. Fenwick and to streamline the company's financial management, Mr. Bloomberg gave Mr. Grauer control of the firm's purse strings. Critics say the appointments did not allow for clear leadership and led to inevitable clashes; management says that glowing sales figures speak for themselves.
 If effectively managing all aspects of the company eluded a sales wizard like Mr. Fenwick, there is no guarantee that Mr. Grauer, who has invested in many companies but had never run one, is the right person either. Both men say they look forward to working together and are devoted to expanding Bloomberg globally, though neither is seen as a visionary of Mr. Bloomberg's caliber. 
 But Mr. Grauer is well regarded within the company's senior ranks, where a nostalgia persists for the days when Mr. Bloomberg strolled around swearing, cracking off-color jokes and goading people forward.
 BLOOMBERG L.P. must remain vigilant about threats from existing and new competitors, and the company constantly has to increase the value of what it offers to justify the $17,000 to $20,000 a year it charges current users for each terminal. That price tag has drawn the attention of cost-cutters at securities firms and other companies struggling with tighter budgets.
 Most Bloomberg users take advantage of only a small portion of the thousands of functions available on a terminal. Several firms have tried installing keystroke software to monitor employee usage and determine which Bloomberg functions are the most popular and which ones can be done away with -- information that would be helpful when trying to negotiate price discounts.
 Bloomberg has resisted steep discounts or offering terminals without a complete package of products, according to customers, competitors and the company's own staff. It is a one-size-fits-all strategy that may run the risk of alienating clients who feel that Bloomberg is force-feeding them an exorbitant goodie. 
 Some information technology mavens also say that the software architecture underlying the Bloomberg terminal is outmoded and that newer users find the Bloomberg screen too intimidating. But the company has offered enhancements to address these concerns and says that it does not feel that its technology is dangerously outmoded. Like everything at Bloomberg, they said, it can adapt.
 ''When we started Bloomberg we weren't sure what we were doing, we just knew there was a void to be filled,'' said Mr. Secunda. ''We live in a world in which the better you get the more you have to do and we're constantly trying to figure out how to keep running on that treadmill.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg L.P., is a former investment banker and a close friend of Michael R. Bloomberg, the company's founder. (Photo by Jesse Winter Photography)
Matthew Winkler, left, the editor in chief of Bloomberg News, also oversees the company's media operations. Lex Fenwick, right, the chief executive of Bloomberg L.P., supervises the company's sales force. (pg. 4)
(Photos by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times [Michael R. Bloomberg]
 Tony Cenicola/The New York Times [monitor])(pg. 1)Chart: ''Growing in a Shrinking Market''From 2001 to 2003, Bloomberg L.P. captured the largest share of the market data business in terms of revenue, even as the industry was getting smaller. And it did this while having only 19 percent of the screens delivering real-time market data.Real-time market data business shareREVENUE*'01TOTAL: $6.9 billionOthers: 18%Thomson Financial: 6%Reuters: 42%Bloomberg: 34%'03TOTAL: $6.7 billionOthers: 11%Thomson Financial: 6% ($415 million)Reuters: 40% ($2.7 billion)Bloomberg: 43% ($2.9 billion)TERMINALS'01TOTAL: 1,157,350Others: 18%Bloomberg: 14%Thomson Financial: 17%Reuters: 51%'03TOTAL: 955,111Others: 15%Bloomberg: 19% (179,271)Thomson Financial: 22% (205,840)Reuters: 45% (427,000)Figures are roundedRevenue shown is from the real-time market data business portions of the companies, and represents about 90 percent of Bloomberg, 60 percent of Reuters and 28 percent of Thomson Financial.(Source by Inside Market Data Reference)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (86%); AUCTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



424 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Wearing Eco-Politics on Your Sleeve

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
THE scene was like so many others in New York during Fashion Week last month. Models sauntered down a catwalk to a pulsating soundtrack, showing off the latest work of designers including Oscar de la Renta and Proenza Shouler. 
 Except for this: Every garment was made with fibers spun from bamboo, corn, organic cotton and other materials that promoters said were more eco-friendly than traditional materials.
 The show, called FutureFashion and sponsored by Earth Pledge, a New York-based nonprofit group that promotes environmental programs, challenged designers to create fashion using only fabrics that were renewable, reusable or generated less pollution than conventional material. The message was clear: Eco-style need not be an oxymoron. 
 A gimmick? Sure. But even some fashion veterans said the idea could have legs. ''I was shocked,'' said Julie Gilhart, vice president and fashion director for Barneys, the high-end retailer in New York. ''It was as interesting as anything we saw on the runways all week.''
 Green, say some in the fashion world, may become the new black. ''We're taking the market from hippie to hip,'' says Marci Zaroff, founder of Under The Canopy, a line of clothing and home furnishings made from organic cotton and other natural fabrics.
 Eco-advocates and some apparel executives say they believe that goods made with so-called environmentally friendly fabrics -- including clothing and home furnishings -- could follow the path of organic food and beauty products, which have crossed over from niche to mainstream to become a $15 billion business.
 Organic cotton, the largest category of eco-apparel, accounted for just $85 million of retail sales in the United States in 2003, the latest year for which statistics were available, according to the Organic Trade Association. That was a very small fraction -- about 0.05 percent -- of the American apparel market that year. 
 But some pieces are falling into place: new and high-quality fabrics, designer interest, budding consumer awareness and a developing supply network that makes it easier for companies like Nordstrom and Timberland to take the plunge. ''I think it's on everybody's radar,'' Ms. Gilhart said.
 Shoppers will start to see more choices this spring. The designer Rogan Gregory, whose $240 denim jeans are coveted by some shoppers, will introduce organic cotton denim clothing under the Loomstate label in high-end stores such as Barneys and Fred Segal this month. For the more cost-conscious shopper, Sam's Club will start selling 100 percent organic cotton active wear by Chaus at its 550 stores this month, with prices starting at $10.
 Whole Foods, the organic food market chain, is jumping in. It began selling organic cotton clothes and linens from more than 10 companies -- including Under The Canopy, based in Boca Raton, Fla., and Green Baby, in Tarrytown, N.Y. -- at a new megastore in Austin, Tex., early this month.
 Why the fuss over the organic credentials of something people don't eat? According to the Sustainable Cotton Project, a nonprofit group dedicated to promoting the use of organic cotton, a third of a pound of pesticides and other agricultural chemicals are used to produce the cotton for one simple cotton T-shirt. Then ammonia, formaldehyde and other chemicals are used to process and finish it. Many of these chemicals are known or suspected carcinogens.
 The new ecologically friendly fabrics are made with materials that their proponents say cause less harm to the environment, like cotton and wool produced without synthetic chemicals or pesticides, or hardy, fast-growing plants like bamboo and hemp that are produced with relatively little pesticides or fertilizers.
 Advances in materials science are leading to other new materials. These include biopolymers made from corn and soy, including a corn-based fiber called Ingeo by Cargill that is used by Versace and other designers. Clothing makers are focusing first on cotton because it is the most widely used fiber and, according to the Pesticide Action Network, an environmental group, it accounts for 22 percent of all insecticides used -- about $2.5 billion worth worldwide each year.
 When Patagonia, the outdoor apparel maker based in Ventura, Calif., commissioned a study of the environmental impact of its raw materials in the early 1990's, it assumed that oil-based synthetics like polyester and nylon would cause the most harm to people and the environment. The company said it was shocked to find that cotton was worse. In 1994, Patagonia decided to convert its entire cotton line to organic -- and did so in just 18 months.
 At first, the company took a financial hit: finding a consistent, high-quality supply of organic cotton was difficult, so Patagonia produced less inventory, and higher costs cut into margins. But the company worked out the kinks and restored its margins within a few years, said Jill Vlahos, Patagonia's director of environmental analysis, who said that Patagonia also uses recycled plastic in its fleece and in some polyester fabric, and now offers organic wool clothes.
 Ms. Vlahos conceded that it was easier for Patagonia to take risks because it is privately held. But, she added, the efforts have proved successful in the long run. ''We have found a model that works,'' she said. ''Hopefully it will inspire others.''
 As Patagonia's experience illustrates, many obstacles thwart the wider adoption of environmentally friendly apparel. Supply, for example, has been vexing. In many cases, companies had to develop sources from scratch. ''We're building the brand at the same time we were building the supply chain,'' said Scott Hahn, the chief executive of Rogan of New York.
 When Duncan Berry, the chief executive of GreenSource, decided in 1999 to add organic cotton to his business, which makes T-shirts and other clothing sold under the GreenSource and other brands, he found that organic yarns were prohibitively expensive. He hired an agronomist and began working with farmers in Pakistan to make his own. Organic farming requires rotating crops to maintain soil health, so he continues to help finance the farmers in seasons when cotton is not being grown, so they will not use pesticides to grow other crops.
 Price is another issue. Generally, organic cotton costs more to grow than conventional cotton, but the economics differ depending on variables like quality and location. Organic cotton from India, for example, where labor costs are low and organic farms have been operating for more than a few years, can be cost competitive with conventional cotton used to make T-shirts, denim and medium-quality fabrics.
 Many companies and growers are still leery of organic cotton, in part because of past failures. In the mid-1990's, for example, companies including Gap and Levi Strauss dabbled with organic cotton, but retreated after finding it costly and consumers cool to the generally uninteresting styles. The number of acres planted with organic cotton, most of it in the United States, plunged as a result. 
 MARK MESSURA, vice president for strategic planning at Cotton Inc., an industry marketing and research organization, said organic cotton was still a novelty in the notoriously low-margin apparel industry, and added that ''there is no evidence of customer demand or willingness to pay more'' for it. The amount of organic cotton produced worldwide each year, 24 million pounds, is less than 1 percent of conventionally grown cotton.
 Still, the number of brands using organic cotton is accelerating -- to more than 250 in the United States today from fewer than 100 in 2002, according to the Organic Exchange, an industry-sponsored organization in Berkeley, Calif., that acts as a clearinghouse for suppliers and manufacturers of organic cotton. ''We're starting to see a real market,'' says Rebecca Calahan Klein, president of the exchange.
 The most powerful nudge has been from big companies like Nike, whose long-term commitments to organic cotton have given suppliers a measure of comfort. It has set a goal of using organic fibers for at least 5 percent of its cotton-based garments by 2010. That means more than five million pounds of organic cotton a year. Marks & Spencer, the British retailer, has pledged to use 5 percent organic cotton in its private label line by 2012.
 Even the most ardent advocates acknowledge that consumers will not buy organic clothing for its own sake. Style and price still rule. ''The ultimate business model is no compromise,'' says Ms. Zaroff of Under The Canopy. ''If you can give people fit and style and value, and also appeal to their values, it's not 'Why would I buy it?' It's 'Why wouldn't I buy it?'''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about clothing made from fibers produced without pesticides misstated the name of a company in Tarrytown, N.Y., that offers garments made from organic cotton. It is Green Babies, not Green Baby.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Organic cotton from India can compete with conventional cotton on price. At right, a Loomstate design at the Future Fashion show. (Photo by Jorg Bothling/Remei)
 (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); FASHION SHOWS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FABRICS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); COTTON FABRICS (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (73%); RETAIL SALES (68%); SALES & SELLING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: YORK WALLCOVERINGS INC (92%); SAM'S CLUB (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (92%); SIC2672 COATED & LAMINATED PAPER, NEC (92%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



425 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: Behind Lebanon Upheaval, 2 Men's Fateful Clash

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 19 

 BODY:
On an unseasonably mild day last August, a small group of Prime Minister Rafik Hariri's closest political allies could tell from his flushed face and subdued manner that something awful had happened in the Syrian capital of Damascus, where he had been summoned to a meeting with President Bashar al-Assad.
 The four men, all Lebanese Parliament members, recalled waiting for him at the Beirut mansion of the Druze leader Walid Jumblatt, in the so-called garden, basically a carport paved with concrete bricks, plus one short orange tree in a faux terra cotta tub. 
 Mr. Hariri -- wearing an expensive blue suit and a white shirt, his tie loosened -- lumbered over mutely and flung himself onto one of a dozen white plastic chairs, his head lolling back and his arms dangling over the edges. 
 After a few moments, he leaned forward and described how the Syrian leader had threatened him, curtly ordering him to amend Lebanon's Constitution to give President Emile Lahoud, the man Syria used to block Mr. Hariri's every move, another three years in office. 
 ''Bashar told him, 'Lahoud is me,''' Mr. Jumblatt recalled in an interview. ''Bashar told Hariri: 'If you and Chirac want me out of Lebanon, I will break Lebanon.''' He was referring to the French president, Jacques Chirac. 
 In the month since Mr. Hariri was assassinated, members of Lebanon's anti-Syrian opposition have pointed to that Aug. 26 encounter in Damascus as fateful. Although opposition leaders acknowledge that they lack firm evidence tying Syria or its Lebanese agents directly to Mr. Hariri's assassination, they link that day to his slaying on Feb. 14. 
 ''To tell you the truth, when I heard him telling us those words, I knew that it was his condemnation of death,'' Mr. Jumblatt said. 
 It was after that meeting that Mr. Hariri, 60, a real estate tycoon turned politician who had run Lebanon for the better part of 12 years, decided that he had to join the movement to uproot both the Syrian Army and the ever more robust tentacles of its secret police from Lebanon. 
 Interviews with a dozen Lebanese involved, including the three other men at the garden and some of Mr. Hariri's closest aides, indicate that in the final six months of his life he was tormented by the predicament that Lebanon now faces -- how to end Syria's headlock without reigniting the civil war that tore this country apart a generation ago.
 Whether Mr. Hariri would have succeeded in his efforts cannot be known. Nonetheless, President Assad's decision to force Mr. Lahoud onto Lebanon again is now widely seen as an enormous political blunder, uniting many Lebanese communities in opposition and even managing to bringing together France and the United States in a concerted effort to push Syria out. Although Syria denies involvement in the assassination, Mr. Hariri's death eliminated the one man potentially able to muster the international and domestic pressure to force Damascus to release its grip. 
 For the moment, his killing has inspired that anyway. But the lingering question is whether he can accomplish in death a goal that eluded him while alive: keeping the notoriously bickering opposition united for long enough to see free elections and the end of Syrian control. 
 ''What they are really missing is a leader, that is the key problem, someone to show them the way,'' said Timur Goksel, a longtime United Nations spokesman here who now teaches at the American University of Beirut. ''That is a real void.''

Orders from Damascus
 Syria is used to acting with impunity in Lebanon. 
 But by 2004, the Lebanese were expecting something different from Mr. Assad, not least because the United States had signaled by invading Iraq that business as usual was unacceptable.
 The 39-year-old Syrian leader seemed to have gotten the message, telling a Kuwaiti newspaper early last summer that Damascus would not interfere in Lebanon's presidential election in the fall. Months later, Mr. Hariri was ordered to Damascus for the ominous meeting. Mr. Assad advertised the fact that the meeting was remarkably short -- 15 minutes in a country where most presidential encounters drag on for hours -- to make it clear that Syria was issuing an order. 
 The Lebanese around Mr. Hariri were both appalled and exhilarated that the Syrians obviously failed to grasp the consequences of what was immediately condemned as a maladroit act. 
 ''We knew Bashar had made a fatal error,'' said a close political adviser to Mr. Hariri, who, like several other people interviewed, asked not to be identified given the current tension and fear of reprisals in Lebanon. ''Hariri said that we are all just gnats to them, he kept repeating that until his death.'' 
 The Americans and the French, alienated since Paris opposed the war in Iraq, reacted with rare simultaneous anger over Syria's move. Quietly urged on by Mr. Hariri, they pushed through Security Council Resolution 1559, which demanded a Syrian withdrawal and the disarming of Hezbollah. The Syrians were furious at what they took to be solely Mr. Hariri's handiwork. 
 The strain showed. Mr. Hariri, a burly, gregarious man who loved to make puns, became quiet and introspective. A friend since childhood said that at one point the prime minister put his hand on the friend's shoulder and wept, something he'd never done before. 
 The Syrians, acknowledging that Mr. Hariri might be able to defuse the gathering international storm, asked the prime minister to form a new government. Mr. Hariri started drawing up lists of potential ministers, but most were rejected by Damascus. 
 ''He was like a boxer still reeling from a direct punch,'' said Patrick B. Renaud, the Beirut ambassador for the European Union. ''He was shocked by the harshness of the message he received from the Syrian president.''
 An even harsher message followed. 
 As Marwan Hamade, the former minister of economy and trade and a Hariri ally, drove away from his seaside apartment building on Oct. 1, a roadside bomb flung his Mercedes into the air. He clambered from the flaming wreckage and collapsed to the ground at the very moment the car's fuel tank exploded, sending shrapnel flying in all directions. Mr. Hamade managed to survive with head injuries, severe burns and a broken leg.
 He was one of four cabinet ministers who had voted against the Lahoud extension and then quit the government. He was also among the 29 Parliament members who voted against the constitutional amendment granting Mr. Lahoud three more years. The failed assassination was seen as a warning. 
 The Hamade bombing convinced Mr. Jumblatt that open defiance of Syria was the only route left to restore democracy to Lebanon. He began organizing a series of opposition meetings at the Bristol Hotel in Beirut. Mr. Hariri did not attend, but several members of his Future Movement did. After his assassination, it was this core group that organized the huge street demonstrations that pressured Syria to start withdrawing its forces. 
 In the days after the Hamade bombing, Mr. Hariri changed his security routine somewhat. Bassem Sebah, a Shiite member of Parliament from Mr. Hariri's bloc, said he used to drive the two of them to meetings in a black BMW while sending his usual convoy of armored limousines out as decoys. 
 He was confident that he would not be assassinated, though, aides and political allies recalled, particularly because Washington had publicly rebuked Damascus after the Hamade bombing, warning that it would hold Syria responsible for any similar attacks. 
 Slowly throughout September and October, Mr. Hariri edged closer to the opposition. Aides said he could no longer stomach another three years battling Mr. Lahoud, whom he considered not only a lightweight but also a Syrian pawn who was undermining Lebanese institutions by backing the encroachment of secret police agencies that mirrored the ones running Syria. 
 As Mr. Hamade put it in a speech after the assassination, Mr. Hariri had been subverted because ''the role of the intelligence was no longer to keep up security, but to plant agents, generalize wiretapping, distribute newspaper articles, threaten judges, bind ministers and besiege members of Parliament.''

A President as Insurance
 Among Lebanese, Mr. Lahoud, 68, has a reputation for lounging through most afternoons in his Speedos by the pool at the Yarze country club, reading Paris-Match magazine and holding a tanning mirror. News accounts that he was swimming during Mr. Hariri's funeral reached such a crescendo that he felt compelled to deny them. ''I swim every day -- it's my workout -- but on that specific day, I did not swim,'' he told a gathering of the Journalists' Union Council. 
 Opposition figures are convinced that one key reason Mr. Lahoud was extended was that his family had developed close business ties with the Assad clan in Damascus.
 Foreign embassies suspect the same. ''We have no solid evidence, but we believe there is a big link,'' said a senior Western diplomat. ''His family seems to have done quite well for itself.''
 Mr. Lahoud rejected a request to be interviewed for this article. Ever since he assumed the presidency in 1998, Mr. Lahoud proved Syria's main insurance for keeping Mr. Hariri in check.
 Syria considered Mr. Hariri a threat both because he was a Sunni Muslim figure admired in both countries and because he had important friends in the West. Syria's minority Alawite rulers deposed the once dominant Sunnis there, so an obviously independent Sunni leader in Lebanon might inspire unrest next door. 
 In fact, one reason Mr. Hariri was always reluctant to confront Damascus was that his Sunni Muslim constituency still viewed Syria as its portal to the wider world of Arab causes, and they did not particularly want to be allied with the Maronites, their traditional rivals. 
 Mr. Lahoud ignored the fact that the prime minister was supposed to lead all cabinet meetings. At one October meeting, he sat down and announced that items 1 through 15 on Mr. Hariri's agenda would not be discussed, one former minister recalled, sweeping away every substantial item. 
 Over the years Mr. Lahoud and roughly 18 ministers allied with Syria voted against any project Mr. Hariri proposed, from small items like buying land for new schools to economic reforms. At a 2002 meeting of international donors in Paris, the French president and Mr. Hariri managed to secure more than $4 billion in aid to Lebanon, which was heavily in debt, in exchange for economic reforms. Mr. Lahoud effectively torpedoed all the reforms. 
 ''Every cabinet meeting was an ordeal,'' Mr. Hamade said.

New Hope, and a Sudden End
 The end for Mr. Hariri as prime minister came in October after the Syrians sent him a message to step aside. He resigned on Oct. 20, somewhat relieved, his aides said.
 The next months were consumed mostly with planning for parliamentary elections due in the spring and wrangling over the election law. The Syrians were trying to gerrymander districts around Beirut and the rest of the country to weaken the opposition. But the Christian-Sunni Muslim-Druse coalition appeared to grow ever more formidable. 
 During this period, while he was planning his comeback, Mr. Hariri seemed to become his old self again, friends and allies said. Mr. Renaud, the European Union ambassador, recalls visiting him at his combined office and mansion right after Christmas and seeing him emerge from behind his desk waving a sheaf of papers and grinning, saying, ''We are going to win the elections!''
 To test his Future Movement's popularity, Mr. Hariri announced that to celebrate the Muslim feast of Al Adha, he would receive visitors at his Beirut mansion on Jan. 10. The reaction was huge. Some 20,000 well-wishers poured through, said Ghattas Khoury, a member of his parliamentary bloc. 
 By late January, Mr. Hariri was feeling confident enough that he decided he would not accept any Syrian-nominated members on his election list, his advisers say. His 19-member bloc in Parliament included three men chosen by Rustom Ghazale, the head of Syrian intelligence based in Anjar in the Bekaa region, and the man Lebanese believe really ran their country, his aides said. 
 Mr. Hariri invited Mr. Ghazale to lunch in late January and told him about the decision. 
 ''They were not happy,'' said Ghazi Aridi, a former minister of information who resigned in September over the Lahoud extension. He recalls Mr. Ghazale telling Mr. Hariri, ''You have to think about it and we have to think about it.''
 It was beginning to look like the opposition could capture about 60 seats in the 128-seat Parliament, enough to elect a president other than Mr. Lahoud. Around this time, Mr. Hariri and Mr. Jumblatt, the Druse leader, had a meeting. Mr. Hariri's earlier confidence that he would not be assassinated had slipped; the two men figured one or the other would be killed soon. 
 ''Any field where you challenge them, they get mad,'' Mr. Jumblatt said. ''Such totalitarian regimes cannot understand that you can have the freedom to chose your own M.P.'s, or you choose your own local administrators or I don't know what.'' 
 Two weeks after that conversation, the huge bomb that rocked all of Beirut struck Mr. Hariri's motorcade. He, along with 18 other people, died. 
 ''The goal of killing him was killing the political movement that could succeed in controlling Lebanon, particularly since it looked like the Syrians would have to leave,'' said Mr. Sebah, a member of Parliament from Mr. Hariri's bloc. ''I think they killed him because they did not want a new political era in Lebanon.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, left, with Mr. Hariri in Damascus last August. Members of Lebanon's anti-Syrian opposition now see the meeting as fateful. (Photo by SANA, via Associated Press)
A Lebanese man passed by posters of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri last week along a street in Beirut. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Lebanese opposition leaders Marwan Hamade, left, and Walid Jumblatt, second from left, met last week with the United Nations envoy Terje Roed-Larsen, second from right, at Mr. Jumblatt's home.
Surrounded by images of Mr. Hariri and tributes to him, a Lebanese woman prayed at his grave in Beirut earlier this month.
 Jumana Tabara, a Lebanese woman, wept and held a portrait of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri last week in a building used by the Syrian intelligence services. She watched from her home across the street as the Syrians packed up and left, and then rushed over, taking the portrait along. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); EMILE LAHOUD (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%) SYRIA (98%); LEBANON (98%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



426 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Visiting Korea Base, Rice Sends Forceful Reminder to the North

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: COMMAND POST TANGO, South Korea, Sunday, March 20 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice stepped off her airplane in Seoul on Saturday evening, boarded an Army Black Hawk helicopter and immediately flew to this underground command bunker from which military commanders would direct any war against North Korea.
 ''I wanted to come here to thank you for what you do on the front lines of freedom,'' she told more than 100 service members in the war room, carved deep inside a mountain south of Seoul. ''I know you face a close-in threat every day.'' 
 The visit, a pointed reminder of American military capacity on the peninsula, came just hours after a speech in Tokyo in which Ms. Rice repeated that the United States had no intention of attacking North Korea. But Ms. Rice's aides are also making it plain that the administration has run out of patience with North Korea's continued refusal to rejoin nuclear disarmament talks. 
 A senior official traveling with Ms. Rice said she was trying to send a clear message that it was time to bring talks over the North's nuclear weapons program ''to a satisfactory conclusion.''
 Ms. Rice's action was a departure from diplomatic protocol on several levels. It is highly unusual for a secretary of state's first destination in a country to be a military site instead of a diplomatic event, especially an American installation instead of a South Korean one.
 Past presidents and secretaries of state and defense have traveled to frontline defenses against North Korea, but not to any underground bunker. And they have usually been careful not to come across as bellicose, accompanying their moves with conciliatory language, in part not to alarm South Koreans.
 In contrast, almost everything about Ms. Rice's tour was direct. As she spoke in the bunker, its huge monitor screens and banks of computers were acting as the nerve center for annual war games being conducted by 20,000 American and South Korean troops. 
 While her first move on Korean soil was aimed directly at North Korea, the major push of her visit is to persuade China to ''squeeze the North,'' as one aide said. China is North Korea's only ally, and Ms. Rice arrives there on Sunday. The United States and other parties to the disarmament talks say they are concerned that China is holding back, declining to pressure North Korea as effectively as it could.
 ''I hope China can play an even more important role,'' Nobutaka Machimura, the Japanese foreign minister, said during a joint appearance with Ms. Rice in Tokyo earlier Saturday. 
 On Friday, Ms. Rice said, ''Well, I assume that because China says it wants a nonnuclear Korean peninsula'' that ''they are trying to be effective in their diplomacy.'' But she added that she would urge the Chinese to do more ''when I get to Beijing.''
 In her Tokyo speech, which aides described as a major policy address, Ms. Rice pushed China to change its form of government, saying, ''Even China must eventually embrace some form of open, genuinely representative government.'' 
 While in Beijing, her aides said, she intends to attend Palm Sunday services at a Protestant church -- a potentially provocative act in a nation without freedom of religion.
 Still, aides say North Korea will be the most important subject of discussions in Beijing with Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao on Sunday -- before the services at Gangwashi Protestant Church. 
 As talks with North Korea have stalled, the Bush administration has grown frustrated over the suggestion of Chinese and South Korean partners in the talks that more incentives should be offered to get the North back to negotiations. China and South Korea want economic benefits granted to North Korea in the early part of a phased shutdown of its nuclear arms programs, and the United States favors such benefits offered only at the end of such a process.
 The last session of the regional talks with North Korea was last summer, and the United States is not considered likely to wait past this summer before considering other options, like going to the United Nations Security Council for a resolution.
 Meanwhile, Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other hard-line conservatives in the Bush administration are said to be growing impatient with the North Korea situation. Internally, they are known to have opposed negotiations themselves as an unwise diversion while North Korea builds a nuclear arsenal. 
 Some conservatives in Congress, increasingly alarmed at the number of refugees flooding into China and elsewhere, are pressing the administration to mount an attempt to subvert the government of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il. Ms. Rice's action may have been a gesture to these conservatives as well.
 Ms. Rice's visits to Japan and South Korea have been calibrated to prepare her way to Beijing, enlisting those nations' help in persuading China to try harder.
 ''China is the largest provider of many of North Korea's requirements,'' a senior official said.
 But South Korea is providing goods and services to the North as well. Recently it agreed to provide a large quantity of fertilizer at the North's request, an idea that the Bush administration objected to in private. But Washington is not making a public case against the South.
 Asked about that on Saturday, Ms. Rice said, ''We have not told the South Koreans what they should or should not do with the North Koreans, but we are urging everyone to use whatever leverage they can to bring the North Koreans back to the table.'' 
 Last month, North Korea said it possessed nuclear weapons and had no intention of rejoining the talks with the United States, Japan, South Korea, Russia and China that it had walked out of in June. Ms. Rice and others insist that their present impatience with the North Koreans -- and their demand that they return to the disarmament talks right now -- should not be taken as an ultimatum, partly because they are not yet sure what they can do if the North continues to refuse. 
 A Japanese official said the next step would be to ask the United Nations Security Council to impose sanctions on North Korea, but added that the six-party talks must be pushed until even China believes that they are fruitless. That way, China would be less likely to veto a sanctions resolution. 
 Ms. Rice, answering a question after her speech in Tokyo on Saturday morning, said the penalty North Korea would pay by not returning to the talks would be continued isolation from most of the world. But an aide said he doubted the North would care. After all, he added with a shrug, ''This is a government that's willing to starve its own people.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visiting the command control center for South Korean and American forces south of Seoul, South Korea. (Pool photo by Lee Sang-Hak)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); DISARMAMENT (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



427 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: The Stem Cell Race

 BODY:
President Bush perhaps unwittingly started the competition for stem cell research in the states when he strictly limited any stem cell work that could be financed by the federal government. Those searching for a cure for diabetes or Parkinson's disease have now taken their case to state capitols, where legislators have started to listen.
 California's voters have agreed to borrow $3 billion for such research over the next 10 years. New Jersey's Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey has proposed almost $400 million for the ''race for the cure,'' as he calls it. The Illinois legistature is even considering a tax on elective cosmetic surgery to underwrite stem cell research. 
 New York appears ready to join the race. The most useful thing that Gov. George E. Pataki and Albany's legislators can do is to encourage research, while making sure that scientists are protected by state law. Proposals circulating in Albany would allow such research but would ban ''reproductive'' cloning intended to produce a human being. 
 The problem may be finding enough public money. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has proposed a nonprofit agency that would make grants and establish oversight of the research. His proposal would cost $100 million the first year, $200 million the second. In the Senate, Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican, has been drafting a bill expected to be similar to Mr. Silver's. The governor has said he supports stem cell research generally but worries about where the money will come from.
 That is a reasonable worry in a state facing a $4 billion deficit. Mr. Silver has said he wants some of the money to come from funds paid to the state by tobacco companies. Legislators should consider other areas as well, even New York's own tax on elective cosmetic surgery -- a field that seems to grow richer with every baby-boomer wrinkle.
 Nobody knows whether stem cells will eventually cure diabetes or liberate injured people from their wheelchairs. But that is the hope of those like Dr. Mark Noble, professor of biomedical genetics at the University of Rochester Medical Center. During a recent visit to Albany, Dr. Noble predicted that the stem cell revolution could rank with medical advances like vaccinations and antibiotics. And he warned that top New York researchers were already eyeing greener offers in other states. 
 Albany obviously wants to avoid a brain drain, and research in this promising field should be encouraged. But legislators should be wary of asking taxpayers to pay for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CLONING (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DIABETES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); VACCINES (72%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROCHESTER MEDICAL CORP (52%)

TICKER: ROCM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



428 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 122

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: THE FACE OF SHANGHAIA 

BYLINE: By Ann Marie Gardner

 BODY:
Kentucky Fried Chicken, DVD's, cellphones, chinese.yahoo.com: the Westernization of Shanghai continues at a 21st-century pace. In this, the most dynamic city in Asia, the population is ambitious; the foreign investment is the highest in China; and the noise, traffic and construction are nonstop. Still, people take time to sing and do tai chi in the park, and the most frequent crime is bicycle theft. Clearly, this is a new Shanghai. Look now, or you'll miss it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Feng Guan-ling Retired shipbuilder, Communist Party member. Organizes a group to sing patriotic and revolutionary songs every morning in a park. ''Singing keeps me healthy,'' he says. Likes American war movies. Wang Ruijun Unemployed. Likes motorcycle racing. Has lost or broken seven cellphones in the last three years. Favorite movie: ''Magnolia.''Wu Fei Logistician. Likes ''Star Wars,'' ''The Lord of the Rings'' and James Bond films. Goes to KFC or McDonald's once a week. Has lost four cellphones in the last three years.CHEN JIAOJIAO Editor and photographer. Works with her boyfriend on photographic travel books. Likes Martin Margiela clothing. Has lost seven cellphones in the last year. Favorite movie: ''Sleepless in Seattle.''Yan Li-ying Artist, painting teacher, accordion player. Beer-loving Christian. Divorced. Dating a European expatriate. Eats at McDonald's and KFC once a week. Has more than 1,000 DVD's and one small white dog. Does two hours of tai chi a day.Sarah Shen Twenty-two-year-old college student and Hooters waitress. Likes to chat with foreigners online
a few have gone to Shanghai to meet her. Favorite television shows: ''Growing Pains,'' ''Friends'' and ''Sex and the City.'' Favorite movie: ''Pretty Woman.''Zhao Xiaoyun Twenty-eight-year-old restaurant manager. Has one rabbit. Eats out six nights a week. When she thinks of the United States, she thinks of New York, fast food and steak. Likes to watch ''Growing Pains'' and ''The X-Files.'' Favorite movie: ''Pretty Woman.'' Has 100 DVD's
buys a new one every week.Leoer Lee Magazine editor. Has a dog. Eats out every night. Likes to upgrade cellphone to new styles. Favorite television shows: ''Friends,'' ''Sex and the City.'' Likes disaster movies, ''where things blow up, bad things happen.''SAM Immigrant from Anhui Province. Cook at Kommune, a fashionable cafe. Has owned two cellphones in the last three years. Likes James Bond films and basketball. Wants to visit the United States.Chen Long Auto-parts-factory technician. Likes snazzy designer clothes. Enjoys American ''cops and robbers'' movies. Sometimes stays up all night surfing the Internet. Goes to KFC almost every day.Xu Lengji and Xu Chunxiao She is a teacher
he works for an advertising agency. She loves ''Friends'' and ''The Simpsons.'' Has 150 DVD's. He loves''Titanic'' and has 100 DVD's. Both use the Internet and want to go to Australia.Zhang Fang Eighteen-year-old model from rural Henan Province. Wants to go to New York. Considers the look of cellphones to be very important
has bought three in the last year. Favorite television show: ''Growing Pains.''Lin Jinrong Works in the marketing department of Sony China. Likes Gucci, Versace and Miss Sixty clothing. Favorite television show: ''Sex and the City,'' in which her favorite character is Samantha. Has more than 100 DVD's.Aaron (Dai Jia-kang) Wine aficionado and restaurant manager. Likes Giorgio Armani, Adidas, Nike. When he thinks of America, he thinks of Robert Mondavi's Opus One. Likes ''Growing Pains,'' soccer, singing, dancing and the beautiful girls of Shanghai.Huang Lijun Security guard. Communist Party member. Single. Has five cellphones.Duan Juxiang Tai chi teacher in Lu Xun Park. Has been practicing tai chi for more than 20 years
 says that it saved her life. Thinks using computers is bad for your eyes.James Wang Retired film importer. Has lived in Shanghai for 70 years. Says he is too old to travel: ''I only want to dance.''Liu Qinfen Fifty-nine years old. Retired. Takes care of her granddaughter. Prefers ''Teletubbies'' and shows designed to help children learn English. Likes computer card games. Has been to Thailand but did not find it very interesting. (Photographs by Olaf Blecker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



429 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: The Stem Cell Race

 BODY:
President Bush perhaps unwittingly started the competition for stem cell research in the states when he strictly limited any stem cell work that could be financed by the federal government. Those searching for a cure for diabetes or Parkinson's disease have taken their case to state capitols, where legislators have started to listen.
 California's voters have agreed to borrow $3 billion for such research over the next 10 years. New Jersey's Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey has proposed almost $400 million for the ''race for the cure,'' as he calls it. TheIllinois legislature is even considering a tax on elective cosmetic surgery to help underwrite research. 
 New York appears ready to join the race. The most useful thing that Gov. George E. Pataki and Albany's legislators can do is to encourage research, while making sure that scientists are protected by state law. Proposals circulating in Albany would allow such research but would ban ''reproductive'' cloning intended to produce a human being. 
 The problem may be finding enough public money. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has proposed a nonprofit agency that would make grants and establish oversight of the research. His proposal would cost $100 million the first year, $200 million the second. In the Senate, Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican, has been drafting a bill expected to be similar to Mr. Silver's. The governor has said he supports stem cell research generally but worries about where the money will come from.
 This is a reasonable worry in a state facing a $4 billion deficit. Mr. Silver has said he wants some of the money to come from funds paid to the state by tobacco companies. Legislators should consider other avenues as well, even New York's own tax on elective cosmetic surgery -- a field that seems to grow richer with every baby-boomer wrinkle.
 Nobody knows whether stem cells will eventually cure diabetes or liberate injured people from their wheelchairs. But that is the hope of those like Dr. Mark Noble, professor of biomedical genetics at the University of Rochester Medical Center. During a recent visit to Albany, Dr. Noble predicted that the stem cell revolution could rank with medical advances like vaccinations and antibiotics. And he warned that top New York researchers were already eyeing greener offers in other states. 
 Albany obviously wants to avoid a brain drain, and research in this promising field should be encouraged. But legislators should be wary of asking taxpayers to pay for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CLONING (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DIABETES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); VACCINES (72%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROCHESTER MEDICAL CORP (52%)

TICKER: ROCM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



430 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5308 words

HEADLINE: Washington, We Have a Problem . . .

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
In Enron's final weeks, years of incompetence, mismanagement and crime finally emerged into public view. But behind the scenes, a desperate -- and at times farcical -- effort was unfolding to avert what proved to be its inevitable destruction. 
 A new book, ''Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story'' by Kurt Eichenwald, provides a detailed look at Enron's rise and fall, including those crucial last days. Following is the second of two sets of excerpts from the book, published by the Broadway Books imprint of Random House. In the first excerpts, published last week, signs of significant trouble at Enron emerged, including questions about whether an off-the-books entity named Chewco had been accounted for properly. Public rumblings of problems had set Enron's stock price into a tailspin and put its survival in question.
 IT was early evening in Houston on Oct. 26, 2001, and Ken Lay, Enron's chairman, was at his desk, building up to his next move. He called to his secretary. 
 ''Rosie,'' he said. ''I need to talk to Alan Greenspan.''
 Within minutes, Lay was connected to the Fed chairman.
 ''Alan, I was calling to update you on our situation,'' Lay said. ''We've had a pretty rough 10 days or so.''
 ''Yes, Ken, I've been reading in the papers,'' Greenspan replied. ''Sorry you're going through all this.''
 ''Thank you,'' Lay replied. He gave a rundown of the recent events and of Enron's attempts to shore up its situation. 
 ''But I think it would be a good idea for the Fed and the Treasury to begin monitoring what's going on,'' Lay said, ''Just to see what might happen if we don't pull this out.''
 Lay had done his best to alert every top finance official in the government of Enron's precarious state. In addition to Greenspan, he had phoned his friends Don Evans, the secretary of commerce, and Paul O'Neill, the secretary of the Treasury. Neither had been in, but an O'Neill assistant had returned the call and suggested that Lay telephone O'Neill on Sunday at his Washington apartment in the Watergate complex. 
 The next day, a contingent of partners at Arthur Andersen, Enron's accounting firm, trooped into the office of Rick Causey, Enron's chief accounting officer, for a Chewco update. The group -- including David Duncan, Tom Bauer and Deb Cash, the three top Andersen partners on the Enron account -- were shown a whiteboard where a sketch of the Chewco structure had been drawn.
 Causey laid out the details, beginning with the possible control of the entity by Michael Kopper, a longtime Enron finance executive, and the role of his lover, Bill Dodson. From there, Causey described issues that suggested that the equity stake of one of the other ''investors'' was in fact nothing more than a loan. Causey looked stricken. ''I didn't know about any of this until I spoke with Ben,'' he said, referring to Ben Glisan, Enron's treasurer. ''I promise.''
 The room was heavy with tension. ''This is deeply troubling, Rick,'' Duncan said. 
 Bauer agreed. ''Based on this information, it looks like Enron may have actually sponsored Chewco,'' he said.
 But they still didn't have enough evidence to prove it. 
 ONE of the only visible hopes for Enron's survival was a merger with Enron's chief competitor, Dynegy. Potential lenders and Dynegy had to be briefed on the state of the company, provided the information they needed to make a decision. But Jeff McMahon, Enron's newly appointed chief financial officer, couldn't handle the due-diligence demands; he had other roles to play. 
 McMahon decided. Ben Glisan, the treasurer, had to take over the job of helping everyone with their due diligence for the merger. But McMahon had concerns. Glisan had been close with Kopper, close with Andrew Fastow, the recently deposed chief financial officer who appeared to have enriched himself mightily with Enron cash using a series of off-books partnerships. Had Glisan allowed himself to get embroiled in Fastow's schemes? 
 There was only one way to handle this. He called Glisan into his office and told him to take a seat.
 ''Ben,'' he said. ''I need to know where you were on all this partnership stuff.''
 McMahon's face was stern. ''I cannot afford to have you working on deals to save the company if you've been compromised. So I need you to assure me. Do you have any involvement in any of this?''
 Southampton. That was the name of the partnership Fastow and Kopper had urged Glisan to invest in. He had received a million dollars, just weeks after making a $5,600 investment. He had been compromised.
 ''I'm not involved in anything,'' he said. 
 Paul O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, was enjoying a Sunday afternoon in his apartment at the Watergate. The telephone rang, and he walked over to answer. ''Please hold for Ken Lay,'' a woman's voice said.
 The line clicked. ''Paul,'' Lay said, ''I appreciate you letting me call you at home today.''
 ''It's fine, Ken. Good to hear from you.''
 ''I'm just calling to update you on what's been going on at Enron,'' Lay said, ''And to recommend that you ought to have somebody at Treasury monitor what's going on.''
 Given the size of the company in the energy markets, Lay said, it would make sense for the government to have some contingency plans in place. 
 ''Things have moved very fast in the past 10 days or so, and so far we haven't seen any way to stop it,'' Lay said. 
 That same night, at his home in the Kalorama section of Washington, Harvey Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, gripped a copy of that day's New York Times in fury. 
 He was reading a lengthy article that reviewed recent events at Enron, which had led to an S.E.C. investigation. But a comment in the article from Mark Palmer, Enron's spokesman, set Pitt on edge. 
 ''Mr. Palmer of Enron disputed any suggestion that Mr. Lay did not have a grasp of the investments at issue, saying Mr. Lay was handicapped in talking about them because of the S.E.C. investigation. 'There is not a whole lot we can say, or should say, about them,' Mr. Palmer said.'' 
 Enron was refusing to answer the most basic questions for investors -- and blaming the S.E.C.! Despicable! 
 Pitt hefted himself out of his chair, heading to his study. He wanted to reread this article, mark it up with a highlighter and then call a staff meeting, right away.
 Pitt was in his study, speaking into the telephone. ''Their statement here just drove me through the wall,'' he said. ''We can't have people claiming that they would tell the world what was going on but for the fact they're under investigation.''
 On the line were several S.E.C. officials, including Steve Cutler, head of enforcement, and Linda Thomsen, who was running the Enron inquiry. For several minutes, the group thrashed through the issues.
 Then the idea struck Pitt. Section 21-A. The commission's rules on cooperation. They could be used to compel Enron to talk. A company had never been forced to explain what was going on right in the middle of the investigation. But why not?
 ''I want to send them a demand under 21-A, that they file something explaining what's happened,'' Pitt said.
 Enron certainly couldn't refuse.
 The next morning, Oct. 29, Don Evans, the commerce secretary, returned from a trip to St. Louis and found Lay's message to call. He phoned right back.
 ''Don, thanks for calling,'' Lay said. He launched into his familiar dialogue about Enron's problems and his suggestion that it called for government monitoring.
 But this time, he pressed for a favor.
 ''Our biggest concern is with the credit rating agencies in New York,'' he said. ''If we lost our investment-grade rating, it would probably destroy us. If there's anything appropriate that Commerce could do to be helpful on that, we'd love to have that kind of help.''
 Evans's response was noncommittal.
 ''I'll look into it,'' he said.
 Around lunchtime, Evans was over in the Treasury building for the weekly meeting of the administration's economic team. The group of economic policy makers was just making its way into the small conference room used by O'Neill.
 Evans pulled O'Neill aside. ''I wanted to tell you, I received a call from Ken Lay,'' he began. 
 He recounted their conversation. ''We've decided that we're not going to intervene in this situation,'' he said. 
 ''Ken called me, too,'' O'Neill replied. ''We've made the same decision.'' 
 That same afternoon, Bill McLucas and his partners from Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering -- the law firm brought in to handle the investigation by a special committee of Enron's board -- received a call from the S.E.C.'s enforcement division. It was Linda Thomsen, alerting them that the agency had become deeply concerned about Enron's failure to disclose more detailed information about the partnership transactions that were the subject of so much market scrutiny.
 ''You guys need to explain a lot, in pretty short order,'' Thomsen said.
 Enron had until Nov. 5, Thomsen said, to reveal what it knew about the arrangements, particularly those involving the LJM funds, the partnerships managed by Fastow. The company needed to file a document known as an 8-K, laying out every detail. In exactly one week. 
 On the afternoon of Oct. 30, Jim Derrick, Enron's general counsel, glanced up from his desk. One of his best lawyers, Kristina Mordaunt -- now general counsel in corporate development -- had just arrived. Anxiety was written all over her face.
 ''Kristina?'' Derrick said. ''What can I do for you?''
 Mordaunt walked in. ''There's something I want you to be aware of,'' she said.
 Derrick waited. Mordaunt glanced at the floor, then plunged ahead. ''I invested with an entity affiliated with LJM,'' she said simply.
 She didn't say the word. Southampton. She didn't mention her million-dollar return, shoveled her way after a few weeks. Derrick's reaction was almost grandfatherly.
 ''Kristina,'' he said. ''We've all done things we regret.'' But this had to be examined more closely, he said.
 ''What I want you to do is go down and find the folks from Wilmer, Cutler,'' he said. ''I'll let them know you're coming.''
 Within the hour, Mordaunt was in a room with Joe Brenner and Reed Brodsky, two Wilmer, Cutler lawyers handling the investigation. 
 ''I have a duty as an Enron employee to answer your questions, and I'll fully cooperate,'' she said. ''But I don't want to be part of any political witch hunt.'' 
 She told the tale without embellishment. She had been approached more than a year before by Kopper, who she thought was acting on Fastow's behalf. He presented this opportunity, which he described as a derivative option. 
 ''Why do you think Kopper came to you?'' Brenner asked.
 ''I don't know.''
 ''Was anybody else approached?''
 Mordaunt shook her head. ''I don't know.''
 A pause. ''I can't get into Andy's head,'' she said. 
 THE first package of information provided for Dynegy's due diligence arrived from Enron that same day. Hugh Tarpley, Dynegy's head of mergers and acquisitions, pored through the numbers, trying to calculate the potential financial performance of this would-be merger partner.
 Tarpley found the answer deep in the package. Enron projected earnings per share of $1.80 for 2001. But the real delight was 2002 -- $2.25 a share. But how? There was nothing explaining what Enron was planning to do to achieve such stellar results. 
 During a negotiating session later that day, Tarpley decided to ask Dave Delainey, head of Enron's retail division.
 ''Dave,'' Tarpley said. ''I'd really like to get a copy of Enron's business plan for 2002.''
 Couldn't happen, Delainey said. ''We don't have a business plan available,'' he said. 
 How then, Tarpley asked, did Enron get its 2002 projections, if it didn't know what it was planning to do?
 Delainey shrugged. ''We just increased the prior year's results by 25 percent,'' he said simply. 
 The smoking gun on Chewco arrived that same week, on Nov. 2, a Friday. 
 It came in one of several cardboard boxes, forwarded by Wilmer, Cutler to the office of David Duncan, one of the Arthur Andersen partners. Duncan handed the records over to two of his partners, Tom Bauer and Deb Cash, who began looking through them. 
 Bauer reached in box No.7 and pulled out a file. Inside was a two-page letter agreement, dated Dec. 30, 1997. Bauer studied the document; it was signed on behalf of the company by Jeremy Blachman, an Enron vice president. Kopper had signed for Chewco.
 The document was perplexing. It provided that a $6 million distribution from JEDI, an entity owned by Enron and Chewco, would fund some sort of reserve account. Bauer read it through again.
 What reserve account? What in the world was this?
 Over the next 24 hours, the Andersen accountants pieced together the mystery. It soon became apparent that this information changed everything about the accounting for Chewco. 
 The letter was the proof of a secret side-agreement used to get the Chewco deal closed. The $6 million had been placed in a reserve account to secure a portion of the money provided to Chewco by Barclays Bank -- supposedly an investor in the deal. With the $6 million secured, Barclays did not have that cash at risk. Chewco was short by at least that amount of the 3 percent outside investment required to be considered an independent entity. 
 There was no question. The accounting failed. Chewco was not a valid special-purpose entity.
 ''Chewco is not a failed S.P.E.,'' Causey said confidently, using the abbreviation for such special-purpose entities. ''It's valid.''
 It was that same evening. Causey's team had been working furiously, as time inched toward the deadline for the filing demanded by the S.E.C. Ten people had been roped in for this meeting -- seven from Enron, one of its lawyers from Vinson & Elkins and two accountants from Andersen -- to make the final assessment on Chewco. After Duncan and Bauer arrived, Causey announced they had formally concluded Chewco was fine. 
 ''What's your view on Dodson as an equity holder?'' Bauer asked.
 ''I'm not sure he can be counted as a related party,'' Causey replied. 
 Kristina Mordaunt picked up the point. ''Texas state law doesn't legally recognize homosexual relationships.'' 
 Unreal. Enron was hanging a huge accounting decision -- impacting income statements and balance sheets going back years -- on state anti-sodomy laws.
 ''I believe for accounting purposes, the assessment of whether Dodson is a related party has to rest on a lot more than just the legal status of their relationship,'' Bauer said.
 But there was a more important issue, Bauer said. What about that side letter?
 Causey stayed silent for a moment. 
 ''What side letter?'' he asked. 
 Bauer's bombshell set off a frantic search for the letter. They found it among a pile of records on a side table. Causey read it, blanching.
 ''I've never seen this before,'' he mumbled. 
 Monday, Nov. 5. The deadline for Enron to file its answer that had been demanded by the S.E.C. But too much had happened. The failure of Chewco had thrown the company's calculations into disarray. Enron pleaded for more time. The S.E.C. gave three days. No more.
 An entirely new accounting team, this time from Deloitte & Touche, swarmed over Enron's financial records. But this time, the accountants weren't working for the company -- instead, they had been retained by Wilmer, Cutler, on behalf of the special committee of Enron's board.
 By that morning, the Deloitte accountants were digging into multiple issues -- including this odd Southampton transaction, which they learned about from Kristina Mordaunt. Since her interview, Mordaunt had provided a road map for the investigators to follow and turned over all of her records. Other details turned up in Enron's own files. 
 An accountant was reviewing a document when something jumped off the page. He consulted his colleagues, then the Wilmer, Cutler lawyers. They all were agreed. The special committee needed to be notified immediately.
 ''A million-dollar return on a $5,000 investment?'' asked Bill Powers, the director in charge of the special committee. 
 Yes, the Deloitte accountant said. 
 ''Well,'' Powers replied, ''that's not normal.''
 Deloitte & Touche had figured out everything. The huge return on Southampton, the millions of dollars that flowed to Fastow and Kopper. The millions more that went to Glisan and Mordaunt -- two executives who not only were still with the company, but at this moment were supposedly helping to guide it through this crisis. 
 ''We need to arrange a full board meeting,'' Powers said. ''The directors have to be told about this.'' 
 Glisan was at his desk later that day, when David Oxley, an executive from human resources, approached.
 ''Ben, I'm sorry, but you need to go home,'' Oxley said.
 Glisan had heard about the committee's discovery. Still, he looked bewildered. ''Am I fired?'' he asked.
 Oxley nodded. ''Probably.'' 
 Mordaunt was thrown out with equal speed. It didn't matter that she came forward, she was told. She never should have invested in the deal. Her Enron career was over.
 DYNEGY had to be told. It was days from presenting a merger deal to its board. Now Enron knew that Glisan, who had provided Dynegy with the information it needed for its multibillion-dollar deal, was a liar. Maybe even a crook. 
 McMahon, Enron's C.F.O., handled the job of breaking the news to Dynegy's financial team. He went over to the offices of the law firm of Baker Botts, which was advising Dynegy on the deal. Rob Doty, Dynegy's C.F.O., was there, crunching some more numbers with his colleagues. 
 ''I've got to tell you guys something,'' McMahon said. ''We found some other employees who got payments related to LJM. And one of them was Ben Glisan.'' 
 Doty sighed. ''Every time I talk to one of you guys, you tell me another new revelation. What else are we going to find out?''
 What the hell is all this? 
 Chuck Watson, the chairman and chief executive of Dynegy, was studying a draft of Enron's 8-K filing that the S.E.C. had demanded. Here he was, in the middle of trying to strike a merger deal with this company, then this. No one had given him a warning. Enron had just shipped over a draft, revealing details it had learned of the partnership debacle.
 Watson could only shake his head. A restatement of five years of earnings. The Southampton scandal. A revelation that the company's recent $1.2 billion equity adjustment was the result of an accounting error. 
 Watson contacted Lay. ''Ken, you told me when we first met there was nothing else. You gave me your personal assurances!''
 Lay's voice was calm.
 ''Chuck,'' he said. ''I'm as surprised as you are.'' 
 Watson blustered and fumed, but by the end, the merger was still going forward. Final negotiations were about price. This was an all-stock deal, Dynegy shares for Enron shares. The issue, of course, was the ratio. Lay and Watson hammered out an agreement, based on the relative prices of Enron and Dynegy shares. It was pretty basic arithmetic. 
 Soon, some investors apparently got wind of the deal. Enron's share price shot up, rising from about $7, to the $9 range. Enron was suddenly more valuable than just hours before. 
 Past 8:30 that evening, Lay glanced around the Enron boardroom. The directors had been meeting more than an hour. It was time. 
 ''All right, then,'' Lay said. ''I'm calling for a motion to approve the proposed merger transaction.''
 John Duncan made the motion. It was approved unanimously. The deal was all but sealed. Or so it appeared.
 That night, Ray Bowen, Enron's new treasurer, signed the necessary documents, writing his name hundreds of times. He was in a conference room in Baker Botts, surrounded by lawyers and financiers. 
 Past midnight, almost there. Clusters of tired executives and lawyers stood around, ironing out a few minor details. Relief surged through the room. Everyone was giddy from exhaustion; there were some laughs and jokes. They had done it. They had saved Enron. 
 Jeff Donahue, an Enron managing director, spied Dynegy's draft release announcing the deal. He read it, chuckled and signaled to Keith Fullenweider, Dynegy's deputy general counsel.
 ''Hey, Keith!'' Donahue called out. ''You've got a typo in your press release.''
 Fullenweider stood. ''Let me see,'' he said.
 He walked over and read the release. ''Jeff, there's no typo.''
 Donahue smiled. ''You missed it!'' he said. ''Look at the price it says your board approved.''
 Fullenweider read the words. Enron shareholders will receive 0.2685 Dynegy shares per share of Enron common stock. He shrugged. ''So?'' he said. ''That's the price our board approved.''
 Donahue's face fell. ''Well,'' he said, ''That's not the price our board approved.''
 AN uproar engulfed the conference room. 
 The Dynegy and Enron boards had voted on different merger agreements, and didn't know it. Dynegy had approved an exchange rate of 0.2685 shares for Enron stock, while Enron had approved a higher ratio of 0.2885 -- based on the sudden pop that afternoon in the stock price. That translated into a difference of about $400 million. 
 Fullenweider grabbed the release and tore through Baker Botts, looking for McMahon and Mark Muller, Enron's chief deal maker. He found them in another conference room and cursed at them for messing up the deal. 
 Muller was stunned. ''What are you talking about?''
 ''The exchange ratio! It's .2685!''
 ''No, it's not,'' Muller said. ''It's .2885.''
 ''No, it's not, you idiot!'' Fullenweider shouted. 
 ''I've got the board minutes right here!'' Muller shouted. ''That's what they approved!'' 
 Fullenweider threw up his hands. ''Yeah! I know! That's the problem!''
 He shook his head in disgust. ''They approved the wrong goddamn deal!'' he shouted.
 The two sides, battling fatigue, retreated to separate conference rooms to ponder the latest disaster. Bowen meandered in, watching as lawyers and executives scurried in and out. He sat beside Rob Walls, a senior lawyer with Enron. This whole experience was awful, Bowen said. 
 He shook his head and chuckled.
 ''But it's just too funny to be true,'' he said. 
 Past 3 o'clock in the morning. The Dynegy team had left in disgust, leaving the Enron executives to clean up the mess. 
 Muller motioned toward McMahon. ''You're the C.F.O.,'' he said. ''You need to call Ken.''
 ''Oh, no,'' McMahon shot back. ''You call Lay at 3 o'clock in the morning and wake him up.''
 Muller thought for a moment. ''All right.'' 
 The Lays were asleep when the phone rang. Linda rolled over in bed and, in the darkness, picked up the receiver.
 ''Hello?'' she mumbled.
 The Enron team was gathered around a speaker phone.
 ''This is Mark Muller from Enron,'' he said. ''I need to speak to Ken Lay. I'm sorry I woke you up.''
 A pause. ''Can I tell him what it's about?'' 
 ''Yeah,'' Muller said, ''You can tell him our merger's all screwed up because of him.''
 Linda turned over, and passed the phone to her husband.
 ''Yes?'' he said.
 ''Ken, this is Mark,'' Muller said. ''We've got a major problem here with the numbers.''
 Muller spelled out what he knew.
 ''O.K.,'' Lay said, ''Well, you know, the number Dynegy has is not the one Chuck and I discussed. He got it wrong. Let me call Chuck, and I'll take care of it.''
 Minutes later, Watson was on the line from his home. 
 ''Ken,'' he said, ''That ain't the deal.''
 Somehow, there had been some horrible miscommunication, Watson said. But Dynegy's hands were tied. 
 ''We're not going to change the deal, Ken,'' he said. 
 ENRON caved -- again. The deal was taken back to the company's board, which testily agreed to cut the value of the merger. It was all finally announced on Nov. 9. 
 Three days later, one of Andy Fastow's last remaining financial land mines exploded. In order to get better pricing for the deals, Fastow and his favorites had agreed to terms that allowed banks and investors to demand money or stock from Enron if its share price fell to certain levels or its credit rating dropped -- usually below investment grade. But not always. There was one deal where the critical trigger had been placed at BBB-minus, one notch above junk. A rating bestowed on Enron that very week.
 The deal, called Rawhide, came to the finance group's attention when Citibank called Bowen to notify him that the company had just hit a trigger. Bowen was flummoxed. He knew Rawhide had been used to raise more than a half a billion dollars a few years back. But what idiot would put an investment grade trigger in a finance deal?
 He checked it out and found that Citibank was right. Enron owed all the money it had borrowed through Rawhide. Some $690 million, due 15 days from the day the trigger was hit. And, until Citibank called, no one at Enron knew the repayment clock was already ticking.
 ''That can't be right,'' McMahon protested, throwing up his hands. ''That's just insane!''
 Bowen was standing in front of McMahon, having just broken the news of the Rawhide trigger.
 ''It's right,'' he said simply.
 ''Ray, we've never done deals where we allow for debt acceleration in the investment grade category!'' he shot back. ''Why would someone do that?''
 Bowen shrugged. ''I have no idea. But we've checked it. That's what they did.''
 McMahon put a hand over his face. This was too much.
 Bowen nodded. ''Technically, we're in default.'' 
 Enron was cracking open. It put out its quarterly filing, revealing the Rawhide debacle and the fact that it had burned through more than a billion dollars in cash in just a few days. The quarterly filing had unnerved both the market and the credit rating agencies. Its debt was put under review again, and its shares were the most actively traded on the New York Stock Exchange. That day, Nov. 20, Enron stock fell almost 23 percent, closing at just about $7 a share.
 Even at the lower price, Dynegy was paying too much. The deal had to be renegotiated, one more time.
 Enron's new GT Gulfstream corporate jet took off from Houston early the day after Thanksgiving. The cabin was packed with executives -- among them Lay, McMahon, Bowen, and Greg Whalley, Enron's president. The plane was headed up to the Westchester County Airport in New York. From there, the executives would travel by car to meetings at the Doral Arrowwood, an executive conference center and hotel, for the final negotiations with Dynegy and the banks. 
 Almost everyone on board was an emotional wreck. Whalley alone seemed to have caught his second wind, and was preaching about the great adrenaline rush he felt with skydiving.
 Lay was tired of the lecture, tired of Whalley. He turned to face him. ''Greg, I've got enough of an adrenaline rush right now. I don't need to add to my list.''
 That morning, Jimmy Lee, a vice chairman with J.P. Morgan Chase, squeezed in a round of golf with a few colleagues before they made their way to Arrowwood for the Enron meetings. It was a beautiful day, and the contingent arrived in golf clothes.
 ''O.K.,'' Lee said as he took a seat, ''Here's where we stand.'' Best estimate, Lee said, Enron was short about $3 billion in liquidity. But there was a way to do this. Citibank would kick in a billion, Chase would step up for a billion. Then, another billion from Dynegy, plus a public recommitment to the merger.
 ''That would take care of everything,'' Lee said. 
 Rob Doty from Dynegy answered. ''We're committed to this transaction, and we will step up for our third,'' he said. ''But we have concerns that have to be addressed.''
 Lay listened to the harangue, achingly aware that his counterpart, Chuck Watson, wasn't in the room. In fact, Watson hadn't bothered to come to the meeting at all. He had left it all in the hands of his lieutenants.
 This, Lay knew, was a bad sign.
 That night, Ken Lay and his management team got drunk. Nothing much had been accomplished that day, though the discussions were scheduled to pick up again the next morning. So, desperate for a chance to get a reprieve, the Enron executives had ordered steak dinners at the hotel restaurant, and then downed endless bottles of wine. 
 ''Here,'' Lay said late in the evening to McMahon. ''Let me pour you some more.''
 Whalley was silent at the table. Repeatedly that day, he had warned the banks and Dynegy that $3 billion might not be enough to save Enron; if it had to keep prepaying for physical gas, he told them, the company would burn through the new cash before the end of December. 
 As the night wore on, Bowen grew increasingly uncomfortable. Across from him sat Lay, looking like a broken man. This was Ken Lay -- Ken Lay! Mr. Houston! -- tranquilizing himself. It struck Bowen as just terribly sad.
 ''The banks are just stupid,'' Lay complained. But it would all work out, he promised. The deal would happen. Enron would be saved.
 AFTER days of negotiation, the final merger terms were completed. Enron's management agreed that it would accept a lower price and leave the company. The deal seemed done, and the Enron team headed back to the airport. 
 Lay took his seat on the corporate jet, looking morose but satisfied. Bowen and Whalley sat in silence. The plane was just getting ready to pull out toward the runway when a radio message came across to the pilot. The engines slowed. The pilot stood, and walked back into the passenger cabin.
 ''Mr. Lay?'' he said. ''There's a Mr. Watson who needs to speak to you right away.''
 The four executives dragged themselves off the plane.
 ''My God!'' McMahon exclaimed. ''Will his ego never cease?''
 They walked into the terminal, and were directed to a conference room where they connected to Watson by speaker phone. His tone was ponderous. 
 ''I've been talking to my guys over the last number of days, and there are still some problems,'' he said. 
 Everyone in the room knew where this was going. Watson was going to knock down the price again, and there was nothing they could do about it. They waited for him to lower the boom.
 ''And that's why we've decided,'' Watson said, ''that we're not going to pursue this merger.''
 The room went dead silent.
 It was over.
 That week, on Nov. 28, Dynegy's traders stopped doing business with Enron. At 8:30 that morning, a desperate call came to Dynegy from Susan Pererra, an Enron trader.
 ''You're cutting us off!'' she shouted. ''Everyone has cut us off! I don't even know why I'm here.''
 Two hours later, with the formal notification that the deal was off, McMahon called the ratings agencies to let them know. Standard & Poor's was the first to downgrade the company. Its debt was now rated at junk levels.
 Trading in Enron shares was suspended by the New York Stock Exchange. When it resumed, the price plummeted 75 percent, to just above $1.
 ''I'm calling this meeting of the Enron board to order,'' Lay announced.
 It was 8:12 on Dec. 1, a Saturday. Most directors were taking part in the meeting by phone. None had much stomach for what they had to do. 
 McMahon gave the final presentation on the company's cash position. It ended the week with $424 million in cash -- practically nothing. 
 ''All right,'' Lay said. ''We now have to consider our option here, for Enron to file for bankruptcy. Does anyone have any thoughts?''
 The room was silent for a moment. ''Who would've thought this?'' one director, Pug Winokur, said. ''I just can't believe this is happening.'' 
 There was little other discussion. ''Do I hear a motion for that recommendation?'' Lay asked. 
 John Duncan spoke up. ''So moved,'' he said.
 ''All in favor?'' Lay asked.
 Unanimous. ''The motion carries,'' Lay said. 
 On the morning of Dec. 2, lawyers worked for hours on the paperwork before handing it off to their staff to convert to a digital format. In the Houston office of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, Enron's new law firm, the records were provided to Steven Vacek, a paralegal. 
 Vacek signed on to his computer, calling up the Internet site for the Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York. At 4:28 in the morning, Vacek clicked the submit button, sending the papers to New York. 
 Enron was officially bankrupt.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul H. O'Neill, left, the Treasury secretary, and Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, got calls from Kenneth L. Lay in 2001 as Enron started to unravel. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse)
From left: Richard A. Causey, who was Enron's chief accounting officer, faces trial in January on felony charges
David B. Duncan, a former Arthur Andersen partner in charge of auditing Enron, pleaded guilty to obstructing justice
and Michael Kopper, who was managing director of global finance for Enron, also pleaded guilty. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
(Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)
(Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)
At left, Stephen Cutler and Linda Thomsen of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, who worked with Harvey L. Pitt, right, the S.E.C. chairman, to make Enron explain itself. Enron then filed a disclosure that rattled its putative merger partner, Dynegy. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press)
(Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)(pg. 9)
 On Nov. 9, 2001, Kenneth L. Lay, left, listened to Chuck Watson of Dynegy announce the purchase of Enron. The deal would fall apart before the month was over. (Photo by Christobal Perez/Houston Chronicle, via Associated Press)(pg. 10)Drawings (Drawings by Charlie Powell)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



431 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Bomb Kills 3 Iraqi Policemen in Procession

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Mona Mahmoud contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 19 

 BODY:
Three police officers were killed Saturday morning in the northern city of Kirkuk when a bomb exploded near the funeral procession of an officer who was shot the day before, Iraqi officials said. 
 The attack came on the second anniversary of the American invasion, as political protests in many countries and scattered violence here underscored the instability that continues to afflict Iraq in the wake of Saddam Hussein's fall. 
 Tens of thousands of war protesters demonstrated across Europe on Saturday to mark the anniversary, with 45,000 marching in London from Hyde Park past the American Embassy, The Associated Press reported. In Istanbul, about 15,000 people protested the American presence in Iraq. Demonstrations were also held across the United States. 
 The attack in Kirkuk, in which five officers were wounded, was the latest of several recent attacks aimed at funeral processions, including a suicide bombing in Mosul last week that left at least 53 people dead. 
 Kirkuk, an ethnically mixed city where tensions run high, has been at the center of the political disputes that have prevented a new government from forming. Iraq's leading Kurdish figures are demanding the restoration of Kurdish property in the city as a condition for joining a governing alliance with the Shiites, who control a narrow majority of the seats in the national assembly. 
 In Falluja, west of the capital, hundreds of former police officers rallied Saturday in front of the mayor's office to demand their jobs back and to protest the chaos plaguing the department. Earlier in the day, the former chief of the city's traffic police shot the man who had been named to replace him, witnesses said.
 Falluja, formerly an insurgent stronghold, has been engaged in a difficult reconstruction since the American invasion last fall, with American and Iraqi engineers struggling to rebuild the city's institutions so that residents who fled the violence can return in peace.
 In Iraq's rebel stronghold of Ramadi, a suicide car bomber attacked an American military convoy on Saturday, Reuters quoted a police official as saying. No information on casualties was immediately available. A militant organization led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility on a Web site.
 An American soldier was killed Friday in Baghdad when his patrol came under small-arms fire, American military officials said.
 An unknown group said that it had kidnapped two Egyptian engineers in Iraq and issued a video that it said showed the hostages, according to an Internet posting on Saturday, Reuters reported.
 In Baghdad, several dozen leaders of Iraq's Sunni Arabs gathered on Saturday to discuss their participation in the government and the writing of a constitution. The Sunnis, a powerful minority who formed Iraq's ruling class under Mr. Hussein, largely boycotted the elections.
 The conference was organized by Sharif Ali bin al-Hussein, the leader of the Constitutional Monarchy Party. In his opening address, he urged Iraq's Sunnis -- who form the core of the insurgency here -- to become part of the new government.
 But as the conference went on, it became a virtual rally for the insurgency, with tribal sheiks and clerics alike speaking scornfully about the government and constitution. Again and again, the speakers praised the resistance, and drew loud applause from the audience gathered in the auditorium of the Babylon Hotel.
 On Friday, insurgents killed a police officer as he washed his car outside his home in the capital's southern Doura district, the police said.
 At least two other officers and several civilians were badly wounded in Doura earlier Friday, when a bomb detonated near a police patrol, officials at Yarmouk Hospital said. 
 In the southern city of Basra, hundreds of students have protested in front of the governor's office for the past three days, sometimes scuffling with the police, in the latest show of anger against the Shiite parties and militias that largely run the city.
 The demonstrations began after an incident on Wednesday in which militiamen loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr beat a group of students dressed Western style, with uncovered hair and jeans, as they ate a picnic lunch in a Basra park. Police officers were standing by but did not stop the attack, the students said. 
 On Thursday and Friday, thick crowds of students gathered near the governor's office chanting ''No to terrorism!'' and ''No to the parties!'' 
 The dean of Basra University, Dr. Saleh Ismail Najem, said, ''We consider the governorate responsible for not providing enough security in public places and for keeping silent about these armed groups.''
 Basra's governor, Muhammad Mesbeh al Waili, said Mr. Sadr's local office had issued a formal apology. But the spokesman for Mr. Sadr's office in Basra, Sheik Asad al-Basra, was unrepentant in an interview on Saturday, saying that the incident had been caused by ''licentious behavior'' among the students.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A meeting of Sunni Arab leaders at a Baghdad hotel yesterday turned into a boisterous pro-insurgency rally. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MAYORS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



432 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Enron: Patron Saint Of Bush's Fake News

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
JUST when Americans are being told it's safe to hand over their savings to Wall Street again, he's baaaack! Looking not unlike Chucky, the demented doll of perennial B-horror-movie renown, Ken Lay has crawled out of Houston's shadows for a media curtain call. 
 His trial is still months away, but there he was last Sunday on ''60 Minutes,'' saying he knew nothin' 'bout nothin' that went down at Enron. This week he is heading toward the best-seller list, as an involuntary star of ''Conspiracy of Fools,'' the New York Times reporter Kurt Eichenwald's epic account of the multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme anointed America's ''most innovative company'' (six years in a row by Fortune magazine). Coming soon, the feature film: Alex Gibney's ''Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room,'' a documentary seen at Sundance, goes into national release next month. As long as you're not among those whose 401(k)'s and pensions were wiped out, it's morbidly entertaining. In one surreal high point, Mr. Lay likens investigations of Enron to terrorist attacks on America. For farce, there's the sight of a beaming Alan Greenspan as he accepts the ''Enron Award for Distinguished Public Service'' only days after Enron has confessed to filing five years of bogus financial reports. Then again, given the implicit quid pro quo in this smarmy tableau, maybe that's the Enron drama's answer to a sex scene. 
 The Bush administration, eager to sell the country on ''personal'' Social Security accounts, cannot be all that pleased to see Kenny Boy again. He's the poster boy for how big guys can rip off suckers in the stock market. He also dredges up some inconvenient pre-9/11 memories of Bush family business. Enron was the biggest Bush-Cheney campaign contributor in the 2000 election. Kenny Boy and his lovely wife Linda flew the first President Bush and Barbara Bush to the ensuing Inauguration on the Enron jet. Even as Enron was presiding over rolling blackouts in California, Dick Cheney or his aides had at least six meetings with the company's executives to carve up government energy policy in 2001. Even now what exactly transpired at those meetings remains a secret.
 But never mind. The president himself gave his word when the Enron scandal broke that Kenny Boy was really more of a supporter of Ann Richards anyway. Feeling our pain, Mr. Bush told us of his own personal tragedy: his mother-in-law lost $8,000 she had invested in Enron. Soon stuff was happening in Iraq, and the case was closed, or at least forgotten. 
 Yet the larger shadows linger. Revisiting the Enron story as it re-emerges in 2005 is to be reminded of just how much the Enron culture has continued to shape the Bush administration long after the company itself imploded and the Lays were eighty-sixed from the White House Christmas card list. 
 The enduring legacy of Enron can be summed up in one word: propaganda. Here was a corporate house of cards whose business few could explain and whose source of profits was an utter mystery -- and yet it thrived, unquestioned, for years. How? As the narrator says in ''The Smartest Guys in the Room,'' Enron ''was fixated on its public relations campaigns.'' It churned out slick PR videos as if it were a Hollywood studio. It browbeat the press (until a young Fortune reporter, Bethany McLean, asked one question too many). In a typical ruse in 1998, a gaggle of employees was rushed onto an empty trading floor at the company's Houston headquarters to put on a fictional show of busy trading for visiting Wall Street analysts being escorted by Mr. Lay. ''We brought some of our personal stuff, like pictures, to make it look like the area was lived in,'' a laid-off Enron employee told The Wall Street Journal in 2002. ''We had to make believe we were on the phone buying and selling'' even though ''some of the computers didn't even work.''
 If this Potemkin village sounds familiar, take a look at the ongoing 60-stop ''presidential roadshow'' in which Mr. Bush has ''conversations on Social Security'' with ''ordinary citizens'' for the consumption of local and national newscasts. As in the president's ''town meeting'' campaign appearances last year, the audiences are stacked with prescreened fans; any dissenters who somehow get in are quickly hustled away by security goons. But as The Washington Post reported last weekend, the preparations are even more elaborate than the finished product suggests; the seeming reality of the event is tweaked as elaborately as that of a television reality show. Not only are the panelists for these conversations recruited from administration supporters, but they are rehearsed the night before, with a White House official playing Mr. Bush. One participant told The Post, ''We ran through it five times before the president got there.'' Finalists who vary just slightly from the administration's pitch are banished from the cast at the last minute, ''American Idol''-style. 
 Like Enron's stockholders, American taxpayers pay for the production of such propaganda, even if its message, like that of the Enron show put on for visiting analysts, misrepresents and distorts the bottom line of the scheme that is being sold. We paid for last year's phony television news reports in which the faux reporter Karen Ryan ''interviewed'' administration officials who gave partially deceptive information hyping the Medicare prescription-drug program. We paid Armstrong Williams his $240,000 for delivering faux-journalistic analysis of the No Child Left Behind act. 
 The administration cycled the Ryan and Williams paychecks through the PR giant Ketchum Communications. Ketchum was also one of the companies hired to flack for Andersen, the now-defunct Enron accounting firm that shredded a ton of documents. We don't know what, if any, role Ketchum is playing in the White House's Social Security propaganda push, though we do know the company has received at least $97 million from the government, according to a Congressional report.
 That $97 million may yet prove a mere down payment. The Times reported last weekend that the administration told executive-branch agencies simply to ignore a stern directive by the Congressional Government Accountability Office discouraging the use of ''covert propaganda'' like the Karen Ryan ''news reports.'' In other words, the brakes are off, and before long, the government could have a larger budget for fake news than actual television news divisions have for real news. At last weekend's Gridiron dinner, Mr. Bush made a joke about how ''most'' of his good press on Social Security came from Armstrong Williams, and the Washington press corps yukked it up. The joke, however, is on them -- and us.
 USA Today reported this month that the Department of Homeland Security, having failed miserably to secure American ports and air transportation from potential Al Qaeda attacks, has nonetheless shelled out $100,000-plus to hire ''a Hollywood liaison'': Bobbie Faye Ferguson, an actress whose credits include the movie ''The Bermuda Triangle'' and guest shots on television schlock like ''Designing Women'' and ''The Dukes of Hazzard.'' She will ''work with moviemakers and scriptwriters'' to give us homeland security infotainment -- which is to actual homeland security what the movie ''Independence Day'' is to an actual terrorist attack.
 Another propagandist with a rising profile is Susan Molinari, the onetime CBS News personality who appears regularly on news shows like ''Hardball'' and ''Capitol Report.'' As she bloviates from the right about Social Security or the fake newsman Jeff Gannon, she is invariably described as ''a former Republican Congresswoman'' or a ''CNBC political analyst.'' But her actual current jobs remain mysteriously unmentioned: C.E.O. of the Washington Group, Ketchum's lobbying firm, and president of Ketchum Public Affairs. Were the Ketchum link disclosed, perhaps some real NBC reporter might find the nerve to ask her what other Karen Ryans and Armstrong Williamses might be on the Ketchum payroll. Or not. 
 The Bush propagandists have been successful at many tasks, from fomenting the canard that Iraqis attacked on 9/11 to deflecting moral outrage from Abu Ghraib and toward indecency as defined by its Federal Communications Commission. But Social Security may be a bridge too far even for propaganda machinery of this heft. Polls find that an ever-increasing majority of the country rejects the idea of letting Wall Street get its hands on its retirement savings. 
 Americans do have short memories, but it's the administration's bad luck that not just Kenny Boy but a whole brigade of bubble plutocrats have lately been yanked back into the spotlight by their legal travails: WorldCom's Bernard J. Ebbers, Tyco's L. Dennis Kozlowski, HealthSouth's Richard M. Scrushy, Global Crossing's Gary Winnick. No one is glad to see them. The public knows that the economy has not fully mended, and that there remain different economic rules for insiders than for the panelists drafted for the presidential Social Security roadshow. The new bankruptcy bill embraced this month by Republicans and Democrats alike throws Americans paying usurious credit-card interest to the wolves even as wealthy debtors remain protected.
 You can catch the public mood in the reaction to Martha Stewart's homecoming. Despite the news media's heavy-breathing efforts to hype her emergence from jail as the heartwarming comeback of a born-again humanitarian, the bottom line shows that few in the audience are buying it. The Martha Stewart Omnimedia stock price started tumbling the moment she was back on camera, in line with the cratered circulation and ad sales of her magazine. Handing out hot cocoa to reporters at her Bedford, N.Y., estate did not turn the tide, and her spinoff of ''The Apprentice'' may be arriving just as the country is getting sick of C.E.O.'s again. Coincidentally or not, ratings for the existing ''Apprentice'' are off in tandem with the filing for bankruptcy protection by Donald Trump's casino empire, the saturation coverage of his lavish nuptials and the introduction of a Trump fragrance. 
 It's against this backdrop that the returning Mr. Lay -- completely unrepentant, still purporting on ''60 Minutes'' that he's an innocent victim of others -- could be the Democrats' new best friend. A Texas tycoon who helped create the political career of George W. Bush only to be discarded when scandal struck has re-emerged at just the precise moment when he might do his old buddy the most harm.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A reality show that tweaks reality: President Bush at a ''presidential roadshow'' on Social Security in Shreveport, La., on March 11. (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); HORROR FILMS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FILM (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BESTSELLERS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); LITERATURE (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); SCANDALS (70%); PONZI SCHEMES (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); POWER FAILURES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) Books and Literature

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); FRANK RICH (54%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush; Kenneth L Lay

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (76%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005



433 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: As Town for Deaf Takes Shape, Debate on Isolation Re-emerges

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: SALEM, S.D. 

 BODY:
Standing in an empty field along a wind-swept highway, Marvin T. Miller, who is deaf, envisions the town he wants to create here: a place built around American Sign Language, where teachers in the new school will sign, the town council will hold its debates in sign language and restaurant workers will be required to know how to sign orders.
 Nearly 100 families -- with people who are deaf, hard of hearing or who can hear but just want to communicate in sign language -- have already publicly declared their intention to live in Mr. Miller's village, to be called Laurent, after Laurent Clerc, a French educator of the deaf from the 1800's. 
 Planners, architects and future residents from various states and other countries are gathering at a camp center in South Dakota on Monday and through the week to draw detailed blueprints for the town, which could accommodate at least 2,500 people. Mr. Miller, who has been imagining this for years, intends to break ground by fall. 
 ''Society isn't doing that great a job of, quote-unquote, integrating us,'' Mr. Miller, 33, said through an interpreter. ''My children don't see role models in their lives: mayors, factory managers, postal workers, business owners. So we're setting up a place to show our unique culture, our unique society.''
 While deaf enclaves, like the one that existed in Martha's Vineyard decades ago, have cropped up throughout the nation, this would be the first town expressly created for people who sign, its developers say. Even the location, in sparsely populated South Dakota, was selected with the intent of rapidly building political strength for the nation's millions of deaf and hard-of-hearing people, a group that has won few elected offices around the country.
 But in the complicated political world of deaf culture, Laurent is an increasingly contentious idea. For some, like Mr. Miller; his wife, Jennifer, who is also deaf; and their four deaf children, it seems the simplest of wishes: to live in a place where they are fully engaged in day-to-day life. Others, however, particularly advocates of technologies that help deaf people use spoken language, wonder whether such a town would merely isolate and exclude the deaf more than ever. 
 ''We think there is a greater benefit for people to be part of the whole world,'' said Todd Houston, executive director of the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing in Washington. ''I understand the desire to be around people like ourselves, and I don't have a problem with that, but I don't think it's very wise. This is a little bit of circling-the-wagons mentality, if you ask me.''
 Over the past 15 years, he said, it has become easier for the deaf and hard of hearing to grow up using spoken language, because of a steady rise in the use of cochlear implants, more early diagnoses and therapies for deaf children and efforts to place some deaf children in mainstream schools. That fact has set off intense political debate over what it means to be deaf and what mode of communication -- signing or talking -- the deaf should focus on.
 Those who want to live in Laurent, though, say their intent is not exclusivity at all, but the inclusion of diverse people, especially those who do not have the luxury of communicating with speech. ''We are not building a town for deaf people,'' said M.E. Barwacz, Mr. Miller's mother-in-law and his business partner in creating Laurent. ''We are building a town for sign language users. And one of the biggest groups we expect to have here is hearing parents with deaf children.''
 Ms. Barwacz, who intends to live in Laurent, is not deaf. She has two daughters, one deaf and one not, and eight grandchildren, four of them deaf. Nationally, experts report that some 90 percent of deaf children are born to hearing parents, setting up a quandary, in some cases, about what language to use in a single household.
 As early as the 1800's, deaf leaders debated the possibility of a ''deaf state,'' said Gerard Buckley, an official at the National Technical Institute for the Deaf in Rochester. But the notion came and went. Elsewhere, because of proximity to schools and businesses tied to the deaf, large concentrations of deaf people have gathered in cities like Rochester; Washington; Olathe, Kan.; Frederick, Md.; and Sioux Falls, S.D.
 The difference in Laurent, say some among the 92 families who have reserved spaces in the town from as far as London and Australia, is that every element of it would be designed with them in mind. The homes and businesses, they said, would incorporate glass and open space for easy visibility across wide distances. Fire and police services would be designed with more lights and fewer sirens. High-speed Internet connections would be available all over town, since the Internet and Video Relay Service have become vital modes of communication for deaf people. And any shops, businesses or restaurants would be required to be sign-language friendly. 
 Here in Salem, a dusty 125-year-old farming town of 1,300 three miles from the proposed site of Laurent, people seem unsure of what to make of the idea. ''No one has ever come along and tried to start a town,'' said Joseph Kolbeck, the local barber. 
 Along the quiet main drag through town, Mr. Miller and Ms. Barwacz, who are originally from Michigan, recently opened a storefront in the old King Koin Laundromat to create and promote Laurent. They moved to Salem not long ago, choosing the area after surveying nearly the entire country looking at factors like population, climate and cost of land. 
 Some people here wonder how the proposed town of 2,500 would mesh with McCook County's 6,000 residents and its economy of corn, cows and pigs. Others say they doubt Laurent will ever become reality. 
 Mr. Miller and Ms. Barwacz have revealed little about the costs and their plans for financing Laurent. They say they are using family money, as well as some from a group of ''angel investors,'' led by a man with a deaf daughter who wishes to remain anonymous. First Dakota National Bank is helping to secure financing, and the two have optioned 275 acres so far. They say they are spending about $300,000 for the planning work during the meetings that will end on Saturday. Those who have reserved spaces in Laurent will be expected to put down $1,000 deposits for condominiums and home lots within the next few months.
 For many of those people -- from states like California, Florida and New York -- a move to prairie land in South Dakota (population 760,000) would seem to be an enormous culture shock. But they plan to start businesses like shops and restaurants, gas stations and hotels, and the benefits, many of them say, outweigh any concerns they have about the location. 
 Lawrence J. Brick, a retired school administrator from Philadelphia, said Laurent held attractions that most hearing people would struggle even to grasp: no longer having to shy away from the neighbors, fearing he could not communicate; no longer having to guess what a store clerk is saying about a price; no longer having to apologize for being deaf.
 Although some people argue that Laurent might isolate deaf people, H-Dirksen L. Bauman, who directs the master's program in deaf studies at Gallaudet University, said the plans actually marked an important collaboration between the deaf and the hearing, one of a sort not always encouraged by the deaf community. This is especially significant, he said, as more hearing people are learning American Sign Language, now the fifth most-studied language on college campuses. 
 ''Hearing people are not welcomed in deaf residential schools, in deaf clubs,'' Mr. Bauman said. ''But there is no audiogram you will need to buy land in Laurent, South Dakota. There's simply a commitment to live in a visually centered environment that supports manual as opposed to spoken language.''
 But Dr. Michael Novak of Urbana, Ill., who has been performing cochlear implants since 1984, said he was convinced that the trend among the deaf was actually shifting toward therapies that could help the next generation of deaf people use spoken language. 
 ''Communities like this have a real place for people who cannot or choose not to use the hearing technology,'' Dr. Novak said of Laurent. ''But over time, that number will be reducing.'' He wonders then, he said, if the future of a notion like Laurent might fade away.
 For his part, though, Mr. Miller said reports of the ''death of sign language and deaf culture continue to be greatly exaggerated.'' Not everyone, he said, is eligible for or would even want to receive technologies like cochlear implants. ''I do not want one for myself,'' he said. ''I am very happy being deaf. To me, this is like asking a black or Asian person if he/she would take a pill to turn into a white person.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A map on March 21 with an article about plans for a town for deaf people in South Dakota, to be called Laurent, mislabeled the highway running north and south through Sioux Falls. It is I-29, not I-95.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marvin T. Miller and his mother-in-law, M.E. Barwacz, above, are behind plans to create the town of Laurent, S.D., centered on sign language. Right, Mr. Miller signs in his office. Pamphlets, below, promote the town. He hopes to break ground by fall. (Photographs by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of South Dakota highlighting planned site of Laurent. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEAFNESS (95%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); CITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLITICS (63%) Deafness; Sign Language; Families and Family Life; United States Politics and Government; Elections; Deafness; Deafness

PERSON: Monica Davey; Marvin T Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Laurent (SD) (Proposed Town); South Dakota

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



434 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Dancing Around Journalistic Issues in a Lawsuit Over Apple Secrets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Can a company's interest in protecting corporate secrets trump any privilege protecting the identity of a reporter's sources?
 That is the question avoided by the judge who is overseeing the lawsuit filed by Apple Computer to learn who disclosed details of a forthcoming product on various Web sites. In an opinion issued earlier this month, Judge James P. Kleinberg of the Santa Clara County Superior Court in San Jose, Calif., allowed Apple to issue a subpoena to the e-mail service provider for one of the Web sites. 
 The decision attracted considerable attention and was criticized for undermining the ability of online and traditional reporters to protect their sources. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, which filed a brief in the case, splashed a headline on its Web site stating, ''Court Crushes Online Journalists' Rights.'' 
 But Judge Kleinberg carefully and explicitly did not address the journalistic questions in his opinion, writing, ''The order of this court does not go beyond the questions necessary to determine this motion seeking a protective order against that single subpoena, and it cannot and should not be read or interpreted more broadly.''
 Instead, the judge wrote that the disclosed information ''is stolen property, just as any physical item, such as a laptop computer containing the same information on its hard drive.''
 What is more, he determined, there was no compelling public interest in the disclosure: ''Unlike the whistle-blower who discloses a health, safety, or welfare hazard affecting all, or the government employee who reveals mismanagement or worse by our public officials,'' he wrote, the operators of the Web sites ''are doing nothing more than feeding the public's insatiable desire for information'' about Apple.
 But drawing a line between what is whistle-blowing and what is a legitimate trade secret -- the stolen property asserted by Apple -- is not so easy. Some lawyers and journalists worry that the decision, if it survives appeal, will pave the way for more lawsuits against online commentators as well as traditional news organizations, arguing that whatever is disclosed deserves legal protection. 
 ''To have him assert this is a trade secret opens up an exception that swallows the rule,'' said Susan Crawford, an assistant professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law who was involved in litigation over trade secrets when she was in private practice. ''The rough idea here is anything that is kept secret and has economic value because it is kept secret is a trade secret.''
 The critical question, dealt with briefly on page nine of the decision, is ''what is the public good served by protecting the misappropriation of trade secrets?'' And the answer, the judge concludes, is that there is none.
 Focusing on that question, however, allowed the judge to sidestep the question of whether those on the Web sites that disclosed Apple's product details were journalists and eligible to claim any privilege in the first place, either under federal law or California's shield law.
 Although Judge Kleinberg distinguished new product information from the whistle-blower who reveals that a company is polluting the public water supply, his decision does not spell out when disclosure of a secret may serve a sufficiently great public interest to justify a reporter's protecting the identity of the person who revealed it.
 ''It suggests that not just for online journalists but for all journalists, the rules are different when you're talking about trade secrets,'' said Deirdre Mulligan, director for the Samuelson Law, Technology and Public Policy Clinic at Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley. ''And it also constructs a fairly narrow notion of what's in the public interest.''
 Ms. Crawford said she sympathized with the judge's effort to avoid deciding who was a journalist and what kind of protection a journalist might claim. But by resting the decision so heavily on what is a trade secret, she added, ''to stay out of the circus, he's jumped into the swamp.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WEB SITES (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MISAPPROPRIATION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



435 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: An Agency to Answer Yonkers's Prayers, but Not All Its Questions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

 BODY:
For three years, it has been recommended as just the shot in the arm Yonkers needs: a plan to develop 84 acres of state-owned land along the New York State Thruway into a complex of offices, apartments, shops and a hotel that backers say will create thousands of jobs and produce more than $50 million in tax revenue for that beleaguered city.
 But now the project is taking shots, not giving them. Criticism is raining down on the agency that was created to make the miracle happen: the Ridge Hill Development Corporation, a private, nonprofit group that opponents say appears to have been set up as a haven where friends of current and former politicians can find high-paying jobs and wield huge sums of money. 
 Some local officials and community leaders complain that the agency, a local development corporation, would have legal control of the tract and hundreds of millions of dollars in rent that the land will generate, yet is not answerable to voters or elected officials.
 The corporation appoints its own board of directors and can keep many of its deliberations and activities secret, and while it is required to pursue economic development activities in Yonkers, it will have near-total say over how it spends the more than $6.5 million in rent it is expected to receive annually over 70 years if the project is completed. 
 The agency has come under so much pressure that on Friday its board of directors voted to make its records available to the public and to give quarterly reports to the mayor -- though it could rescind that decision at any time. 
 Critics say the situation is a local version of a phenomenon playing out across the state: the creation of more than a hundred similar quasi-governmental agencies that engineer lucrative deals, often without the oversight or accountability required of most government bodies. 
 Many communities work with such agencies as a way to lure developers through tax or financing advantages, and to provide liability protection. In recent months several of these agencies have come under fire -- from the local development corporation that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has proposed using to help build a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, to state authorities like the Canal Corporation, which sold valuable development rights along the Erie Canal for $30,000.
 The state comptroller's office has said it plans a review of other, similar types of agencies that conduct economic development activities around the state, called industrial development agencies. (One of them, in fact, set up the Ridge Hill corporation.) And one state lawmaker, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, said he plans to introduce legislation to make these economic development agencies more accountable.
 ''The Yonkers deal is the poster child for what is wrong'' with the agencies, said Mr. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly Committee on Corporations, Authorities and Commissions. ''They are being used to systematically avoid scrutiny, legislative and budgetary checks and balances and to evade worker protections, environmental and other social legislation.''
 The Ridge Hill corporation was created in 2000 by the Yonkers Industrial Development Agency to develop a site that has been the focus of the city's hopes and disappointments since the state granted a 99-year lease to a manufacturer in 1979, hoping to create thousands of jobs. When the jobs did not come, the corporation bought the remainder of the lease and signed a developer, Forest City Ratner, to build the complex, the Ridge Hill Village Center.
 By creating the Ridge Hill corporation, the development agency said it sought to protect itself and the city from any liability in case the project fell through. ''The board felt that we should be isolated from any litigation that might prevent us from doing our work,'' said Ed Sheeran, the agency's executive director.
 Some state officials said, and a lawyer for Ridge Hill confirmed, that the corporation could have been set up to be accountable to elected officials, and covered by the state's open meetings laws. But Ridge Hill officials said that initially they wanted to keep everything secret to protect their negotiations with the developer, or talks between the developer and the project's potential tenants.
 Another major reason for creating the corporation was ensuring the very independence that Ridge Hill's critics find so disturbing, the corporation's lawyer said.
 ''The business people were allowed to do what was good for the city, and politicians were kept out of the process,'' said the lawyer, Dennis Lynch. The Yonkers project, he said, stands to be successful because it is being guided by ''experienced business people'' rather than ''politicians who are worried about one thing: the next elections.'' He said that if politicians were more involved, Ridge Hill would be run by ''the usual hacks.''
 Yet the project's critics say that is exactly what has happened. 
 Some of the corporation's directors are allies of Mayor Philip A. Amicone and former Mayor John R. Spencer, and sit on the boards of at least two other local development corporations in Yonkers. Tax documents show that in 2003, Mr. Spencer's brother-in-law, Chris Spring, had a $100,000-a-year job with the corporation, but a storm of protest followed and by 2004 he was on the developer's payroll instead.
 The corporation's role has created an unusual dynamic in Yonkers, where the Chamber of Commerce has emerged as an unlikely foe. The Chamber's charges of cronyism gained currency when it was disclosed that the corporation had paid a $10,000 bonus to Mr. Sheeran, director of the industrial development agency that created Ridge Hill, for helping to negotiate the purchase of the lease.
 ''Our concern is, is this a fiefdom being set up down the road for former politicians and their friends to enjoy, or is this really a great thing for the city?'' said the Chamber's president, Kevin T. Cacace. ''If this is a great thing for the city, they should have no objection to sunset the corporation and let all the money flow to the city.'' Mr. Lynch, the corporation's lawyer, said it is governed by federal and state laws, and must spend the rent money received on economic development in the city.
 But one city councilman, John M. Murtagh, said that while that is true, the company is still not accountable to the public, and can decide for itself what constitutes economic development. When he asked last month for a copy of a lease between Ridge Hill and the developer, he said, the corporation did not comply, saying it assumed he would get to see it at some later point.
 ''I am a city councilman in Yonkers and a co-chairman of the Real Estate Committee, and it seems fairly outrageous to me they want me to vote on this and not show me the lease,'' Mr. Murtagh said. 
 The council, in fact, has obtained most of its information about the project from the developer, an official said. On Friday, the corporation's board approved the resolution that opened its records, though it did not provide details of how that would work. 
 ''This is exactly what we were after,'' said Mayor Amicone, a key supporter of the project. ''To open up the process, to eliminate all the misinformation out there.''
 The mayor tried to calm public concern last month by announcing that the corporation's board had promised $5 million a year for city schools. A lawyer for Ridge Hill acknowledged in an interview that the promise is not binding. 
 The project has moved slowly for a variety of reasons, including opposition by community groups that have expressed the fears that often surface over such a large project: concerns over parking, traffic congestion and burdens placed on local schools. The City Council has been weighing whether to change the zoning of the land to allow the complex's mix of housing and businesses.
 But the largest obstacle has been misgivings about the role and power of the Ridge Hill corporation -- issues that have been explored extensively over the years by The Journal News, a newspaper in Westchester County.
 The matter has also raised anew another question that has been shadowing state officials: whether they are getting the best price for state assets. The state has offered to sell the land to Ridge Hill for $8.7 million, but the corporation's contract with Forest City Ratner would generate more than that in rent just in the first two years.
 Bart Bush, deputy commissioner for real estate, real property management and development in the state's Office of General Services, said his agency had negotiated a fair price for the land, based on two appraisals. He said it is not the state's role to act as a developer, or to assume the accompanying financial liabilities. Besides, the sale is intended not as a short-term moneymaker, but as a long-term investment that will yield economic benefits for Yonkers and the state.
 The sale requires the unanimous approval of the state's Public Authorities Control Board, and is scheduled to be on the agenda of the board's next meeting. But the Democrats in the State Assembly control one of the three voting seats, and have held off approval because of questions.
 ''Why should an asset be sold at less than market value to an L.D.C.?'' Assemblyman Brodsky asked. ''Why should it be sold to an L.D.C. which is not required to put the money back in the city that created it? Is the L.D.C. honestly and appropriately created and run?''
 The office of the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, deep into an audit of Yonkers's financial practices, said it planned soon to review the way industrial development agencies operate, prompted in part by the Ridge Hill deal. Mr. Hevesi's office did not comment on the Yonkers case because of its audit, but a spokesman said the agencies would be examined to see if their power to issue lucrative tax breaks has been ''cost-effective and well managed.'' 
 ''There must be accountability and transparency at all levels of state and local government,'' said the spokesman, Dan Weiller.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky plans to introduce legislation to make economic development agencies more accountable. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); LEGISLATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



436 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Talent Meets Commerce In Austin

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

DATELINE: AUSTIN, March 20 

 BODY:
Performing in a penthouse lounge, with the Austin skyline behind her, the songwriter Jesca Hoop sang skeptically about pop ambition. ''Money make you change your style,'' she cooed, over a hint of a Latin beat. ''If the price is right, you forfeit your style without a fight.'' 
 Ms. Hoop, who has been building an audience around Los Angeles, isn't planning to change her style. Like most of the 1,350 singers, songwriters, bands, rappers and ukulele players who descended on Austin from Wednesday through Saturday, she hopes to make her music heard on her own terms. 
 She was playing a showcase set at South by Southwest, the annual music convention that makes Austin the center of the music business for four days. It's rock's equivalent of the Sundance Festival for films, a place where talent, from grassroots to pro, meets commerce. Some 10,000 musicians and deal makers converged at South by Southwest, where bands could be heard nonstop at daytime parties and nighttime club shows 15 hours a day.
 Even the hecklers are creative at this event: ''I'm David Geffen, and I'm going to sign you!'' someone yelled during an afternoon set by Dr. Dog, a Philadelphia band whose songs are full of buoyant vocal harmonies. And the inevitable conversation starter was, ''Heard anything good?'' 
 There was too much good music for any one pair of ears, from the latest buzz bands to outfits as venerable as the Blind Boys of Alabama, the gospel institution founded in 1939. South by Southwest is at least three music festivals in one: a wall-to-wall audition for new bands, a place for familiar names to announce new projects and a celebration of homegrown Texas music. 
 The conference makes clear that the music business is not just the recording business, and the recording business is not just the major labels. As the large music conglomerates bemoan a world of digital downloading, decreased sales and tight radio playlists, independent bands and labels have simply gone about making music. For musicians who don't expect their careers to rise and fall by radio hits and blockbuster albums, major labels have less and less to offer; this year, Bright Eyes, a rock band on the independent label Saddle Creek, reached the Top 10 of the Billboard album chart with its album ''I'm Wide Awake, It's Morning.''
 At a panel discussion by A&R (artists and repertory) executives, speakers described a business that wagers huge amounts on promoting blockbuster hits, with little interest in slower-building, long-term careers. Asked about the advantages of signing with a major label, Tony Wilson, the founder of the influential Factory Records who is now the director of F4 Records, said, ''If you think you are an interesting band, don't.'' 
 Bands are assessed and courted at South by Southwest. Be Your Own Pet, four 16- and 17-year-olds from Nashville, including a brash blond lead singer, Jemina Pearl, plays brittle, revved-up, punky songs like ''Damn Damn Leash.'' A year ago, they were playing Guido's pizzeria in Nashville; now, labels are flocking. ''They all say the same stuff,'' said the band's bassist, Nathan Vasquez, who still has braces on his teeth. ''They say: 'We're not like the other labels. We're like a big independent.' But we're not going to change for them. We're looking for that special needle in that huge haystack.'' 
 South by Southwest also offers bands from outside the United States a rare chance to be heard and noticed here. About one in four bands came from elsewhere, including contingents from Canada, Mexico, Australia, Japan, Norway and Britain, though a scheduled rock band from Iran, named 127, could not obtain visas. The Go! Team, from Brighton, England, was pure exuberance, melding hip-hop chants and booming rock, horn fanfares and the tootling of a recorder into songs that cheerfully marketed themselves when the band's lead singer, Ninja, led the audience in chants of ''Go! Team!'' Another up-and-coming English band, Bloc Party, played multiple shows during the festival, reaching back to the dissonant, scrabbling guitars and yelping vocals of early-1980's post-punk. 
 At the other end of the spectrum was a Mexican band called Album, playing its first show outside its home city, Monterrey, which happens to be a hotbed of wild-eyed Latin rock. In a galvanizing late-night set for a handful of listeners, Album merged rippling electronic loops and effects with fierce garage-rock rave-ups. 
 Band members said that with a troubled economy in Mexico, people can't afford to buy CD's, so the band makes its music available free on its Web site, www.somosalbum.com, in hopes that fans will come to concerts. ''We don't want to be big rock stars,'' said Ricardo Contreras, the band's lead guitarist. ''We're just happy playing, that's all, and we hope to make a living by playing.''
 South by Southwest is a haven for styles that major labels consider commercially marginal, like bluegrass and underground hip-hop, but which are self-sufficient through live performance and independent labels. It's a place to find bands with their hearts in the 1960's, like By Divine Right, a Toronto band that tore into its psychedelic stomps with raucous conviction, and bands reworking the 1980's, like Bloc Party. There were a suprising number of bands devoted to instrumental rock, like the frenetic guitar minimalism of Turing Machine and the electronica-laced chamber rock of Album Leaf. Yet the conference can also be a stepping stone for bands with their hearts set on the Top 10. And it reveals that in a business focused on momentary hits for teenagers, a career can continue for decades. 
 Robert Plant, Led Zeppelin's singer, was one of the convention's keynote speakers, and his performance on Thursday night with his current band, Strange Sensation, rivaled the energy of any younger band. It was a perfect triangulation of his three longtime fixations -- American blues, North African rhythms and arabesques, and Celtic modes and ballads -- with his band adding glimmers of modern electronics when it wasn't stomping through Led Zeppelin's ''Whole Lotta Love.'' Leading a vigorous, reconstituted New York Dolls, David Johansen wore a cropped T-shirt and preened, pouted and wiggled his hips, just as he had in the 1970's, when the Dolls' version of glam-rock presaged punk. 
 The convention celebrated two of Austin's eccentric favorite sons, both subjects of new documentary films: the songwriter Daniel Johnston and Roky Erickson. Mr. Erickson, who led the 1960's Austin psychedelic band the 13th Floor Elevators, gave a rare public performance. And Los Super 7, a rotating group that celebrates the Mexican heritage of Texas music, reconvened with more than a dozen musicians -- including the singers Joe Ely, Rick Trevino and Ruben Ramos -- for twangy, tootling Tex-Mex polkas, honky-tonk, rockabilly and rhythm-and-blues from the band's new album, ''Heard It on the X'' (Telarc). For bands with their eyes on the world, it was a reminder that home truths are worth keeping, too. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jemina Pearl at the South by Southwest festival. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Ninja, lead singer of The Go! Team from Brighton, England, leads the audience in chants, just a part of the group's general exuberance. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SONG WRITING (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (85%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); RAP MUSIC (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%) Music; Conventions and Conferences; South by Southwest Music and Media Conference

PERSON: DAVID GEFFEN (52%) Jon Pareles

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (74%) Austin (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



437 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Poll Shows Mixed Views On Casino Plan 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Harney

 BODY:
A majority of Albany area residents think that Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal to allow Indian tribes to build five casinos in the Catskills would not be worth the social costs, according to a new poll. The Siena Research Institute survey showed that 54 percent of those polled agreed any economic benefits would be offset by social problems related to increased gambling. The poll offered some mixed views on the governor's plan, which requires the State Legislature's approval. A majority of those polled -- 52 percent -- said they would support five casinos if they were built throughout the state, while 35 percent opposed any new Indian casinos. Only 8 percent agreed with the plan to put five casinos in the Catskills. However, 58 percent said they would prefer that the state raise revenues from gambling than increase taxes.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CASINOS (92%); GOVERNORS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TAX INCREASES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



438 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Printer Moving to Its (Very) Old Neighborhood

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
After four decades away, a mere heartbeat in a corporate history that reaches back to colonial New York, the Bowne & Company financial printing house will return to the financial district in early 2006.
 Bowne -- it rhymes with down and town -- will move its headquarters and more than 400 employees to 55 Water Street, just eight blocks from its birthplace at 39 Queen Street (or Pearl Street, as it came to be known after the American Revolution, which began during Bowne's second year in business).
 If the move is a boost to downtown, it also symbolizes the twilight of the printing industry around what is now called Hudson Square. Until 1996, Bowne had presses at its current headquarters, 345 Hudson Street, between Charlton and King Streets. Through the early 1980's, it was setting type for prospectuses, registration statements and proxy statements on Linotype machines. 
 Bowne now does its printing in Secaucus, N.J., and seven other plants across the country and in Canada. But the New York office remains a hub where executives, bankers, underwriters and lawyers gather -- sometimes all night and into the following day -- to edit and proofread documents on which millions of dollars are riding.
 ''I spent many, many hours at Bowne slugging through prospectuses in the 1980's,'' recalled Andrew M. Alper, who is now the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation and was then at Goldman Sachs. He remembered being able to feel the presses rumbling. ''It was the only way we stayed awake some nights,'' he said.
 The city development corporation and the Empire State Development Corporation announced this month that they had granted $1.63 million to Bowne under the job retention and creation program for Lower Manhattan. ''Bowne is a great candidate both for historical reasons and because it also helps diversify the economy downtown,'' Mr. Alper said.
 Bowne has signed a 20-year lease for 203,000 square feet of space on the 10th, 11th and 50th floors of 55 Water Street, at Old Slip, the largest office building in New York. The rent starts at $29 a square foot, said William J. Coote, Bowne's vice president and treasurer. 
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the state development corporation, said such long-term commitments are strategically important. ''It gives us a comfort level to keep on with the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan,'' he said.
 Even with the incentive, it would have been cheaper for Bowne to move to Jersey City at the end of its current Manhattan lease in 2006. ''We decided to stay here because this is where are our roots are,'' Mr. Coote said.
 To which Robert J. Baker, Bowne's director of diversity and corporate citizenship, added, ''And where our clients are.''
 Now, about those roots.
 Bowne is the oldest company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Its founder, Robert Bowne, was a governor of the New York Hospital, an original director of the Bank of New York and an abolitionist in a period when slavery still existed in the state.
 In 1775, he opened a shop on Queen Street offering writing paper, account books, quills, pens, binding and printing materials, powder, furs, nails, glass, pitch-pine boards and low-priced cutlery.
 Bowne & Company took on more printing jobs in the 1800's, like annual reports, stock certificates and the ''By-Laws of the Independent Base Ball Club'' of 1858. Silent on the question of steroids, this 19-page document does warn that players who are inebriated will be fined $1. 
 Bowne began printing stock offerings in 1933 under the presidency of Edmund A. Stanley Sr., whose son, Edmund Jr., led the company until 1992. The younger Mr. Stanley, now 82, is ''really pleased that we're going back downtown,'' Mr. Baker reported.
 Even after Bowne moved out of its previous downtown headquarters -- 163 Front Street, a 10-story building that still stands -- its presence did not disappear entirely from Lower Manhattan.
 Thirty years ago, the corporation lent its financial support, which continues to this day, to Bowne & Company, Stationers, 211 Water Street, part of the South Street Seaport Museum.
 Steeped in 19th-century atmosphere and redolent of ink, this stationery shop has traced a course somewhat like its namesake, as it answers a growing demand for job printing. With hand-set type on foot-powered presses, the shop is turning out hundreds of wedding invitations, calling cards, bookplates and note paper.
 Robert Warner, the curator and master printer, takes pleasure from composing birth announcements for New Yorkers who may well be around to see Bowne's tercentenary. And he welcomes the pending move of the corporation, even though it is bound to increase the already existing confusion between the Bownes, with customers calling the Seaport shop to order, say, 10,000 prospectuses.
 ''We're happy to refer them back to Big Bowne,'' Mr. Warner said, ''since we're a staff of two.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bowne & Company, financial printers for 230 years, also supports a museum print shop staffed by Robert Warner, left, and Nicholas Baute. (Photo by Heidi Schumann/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (93%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (93%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (93%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (93%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (93%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



439 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: U.S. STRATEGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Faults Turkey for Barring Use of Its Land in '03 to Open Northern Front in Iraq

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on Sunday used the second anniversary of the American-led invasion of Iraq to answer the most tenacious criticism of the war effort -- that the Pentagon did not commit sufficient troops to the major offensive or to stability efforts after Baghdad fell.
 The fault, Mr. Rumsfeld contended in two appearances on television talk shows, rested with Turkey, a NATO ally, which would not give permission for the Fourth Infantry Division to cross its territory and open a northern front at the start of the war in March 2003. 
 ''Given the level of the insurgency today, two years later, clearly, if we had been able to get the Fourth Infantry Division in from the north through Turkey, more of the Iraqi Saddam Hussein Baathist regime would have been captured or killed,'' he said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
 As the invasion neared, the heavily armored units of the division and its support elements were in ships off Turkey, ready to create a battlefield vise to squeeze adversaries with the larger Army and Marine Corps force entering Iraq from Kuwait to the south. Had that happened, ''the insurgency today would be less,'' Mr. Rumsfeld added.
 With the Fourth Infantry blocked from entering from the north, ''by the time Baghdad was taken, the large fraction of the Iraqi military and intelligence services just dissipated into the communities,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said. ''And they're still, in a number of instances, still active.''
 Pressed on why the level of American forces was not increased to subdue a resilient insurgency even after the United States was the occupying force in Iraq, he said the troop levels for the stabilization mission were set by Gen. Tommy R. Franks, who at the time was commander of the military's Central Command.
 ''General Franks made a call, and he made a judgment that not only would they not be needed and it would not be appropriate, but that it would be ill advised to put that many more, quote, 'occupation forces' in,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said on the ABC News program ''This Week.''
 ''You'd have that many more targets, that many more people who would leave the feeling of the United States taking over that country as opposed to liberating that country,'' he added.
 Mr. Rumsfeld -- one of the most hands-on defense secretaries in a generation, whose concepts for modern warfare significantly shaped the military's plan for Iraq -- did acknowledge in the interview that he officially endorsed General Franks's recommendations for troop levels.
 He pushed back when asked about any errors of the mission, and instead sought to focus on successes: ''We have 25 million Iraqis that are free. The economy is coming back. The dinar is strong. The schools are open. The hospitals are open. 
 ''They had a successful election. The Iraqi security forces are increasingly taking responsibility.''
 The American military force in Iraq is down from a spike in January to 150,000 before the elections, the highest level since Baghdad fell, although Mr. Rumsfeld said the number would probably increase again for the next elections this fall.
 He cautioned the new Iraqi government against favoritism, which he said could weaken the counterinsurgency mission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (95%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



440 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suspends Military Aid to Nicaragua

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, March 20 

 BODY:
Raising tensions that have revived the politics and personalities of the cold war, the United States has suspended military assistance to Nicaragua because it has failed to move forward with the destruction of an arsenal of shoulder-launched antiaircraft missiles that the Bush administration considers a possible terrorist threat.
 American diplomats here said Friday that about $2.3 million in aid to the Nicaraguan Army had been suspended pending the destruction of the Soviet-made SA-7 missile systems. In Washington, a senior State Department official confirmed that ''part of our security assistance is on hold'' while an agreement is worked out, and added that Nicaragua had made a commitment to President Bush to scrap the missiles.
 ''These missiles are not necessary to a country that is not at war,'' Peter M. Brennan, the deputy chief mission at the United States Embassy, said to reporters here. ''These missiles represent a danger to the world. We know that terrorists are trying to get them.'' 
 Defense Minister Jose Adan Guerra said he had not been formally informed of a suspension. He said, however, that he had received ''verbal notification'' and that he intended to travel to Washington in the coming days to seek a meeting with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.
 The suspension in aid, Mr. Guerra said, sent a chill through relations that have taken more than a decade to thaw, and stirred up old anti-American resentments that linger just beneath society's surface. In the 1980's, Nicaragua was a principal battleground of the cold war. President Reagan suspended aid to this country, imposed an economic boycott and sponsored a guerrilla war against Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government.
 The United States restored diplomatic relations after the Sandinistas were voted out of power in 1990. But Mr. Guerra said formal relations with the Nicaraguan Army, which remains controlled by former Sandinista fighters, were not restored until two years ago when the Nicaraguan government sent a small but symbolically important unit to serve with United States forces in Iraq. Ties between the countries were recently strengthened when Nicaragua agreed to join the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, with the United States.
 ''This is not the way you treat friends,'' Mr. Guerra said Friday. ''We have supported the United States in Iraq. We have supported them on Cafta. And this is what we get for it?''
 The pressure on Nicaragua began last year, after a meeting here between President Enrique Bolanos and Mr. Rumsfeld. In that meeting, Mr. Bolanos said his government had destroyed 1,000 surface-to-air missiles in 2004. And after a sting operation in January by United States and Nicaraguan authorities discovered two Nicaraguan men trying to sell an SA-7 on the black market, Mr. Bolanos quickly reassured the Americans that he would proceed with those efforts.
 Then those plans were foiled by the Sandinistas, who were led by Daniel Ortega, one of the region's most embattled cold warriors. Even though Mr. Ortega has run unsuccessfully in the last three presidential elections, and ranks lower than other leaders of his own party in political polls, his political machine still has vast influence in the country's courts and electoral institutions. 
 An unlikely alliance between conservative legislators of the Constitutionalist Liberal Party and leftist legislators of Mr. Ortega's Sandinista National Liberation Front enacted a series of measures aimed at weakening Mr. Bolanos. Among them was a measure requiring the president to get congressional approval to destroy military weapons.
 In February, during a celebration to commemorate the assassination 71 years ago of the Nicaraguan revolutionary leader Augusto C. Sandino, Mr. Ortega charged that the discovery of the SA-7 missile on the black market had been orchestrated by the United States to inflame fears in Washington. And he condemned the United States' pressure on the military as part of an effort to undermine Nicaraguan sovereignty.
 That position has deeply resonated in this country, where United States-backed conservative governments in the past 15 years have been widely condemned as being as corrupt as the Ortega administration they succeeded and have failed to lift this country out of extreme poverty.
 Mr. Ortega is also hoping the political tide that has moved Latin America decidedly to the left will also propel him back to power in the presidential elections next year. Political analysts and diplomats suggested that the threat of an Ortega presidency was as alarming to Washington as Nicaragua's missile arsenal.
 ''There are forces in Washington, like Ortega, who are still living in a cold war warp,'' one diplomat said, ''They have put away all the carrots and begun beating this country with a stick.''
 Vidaluz Meneses, a Nicaraguan poet and rights advocate, said Mr. Ortega's electoral chances would depend on the power of this country's memory, or lack of it.
 ''Many people fear him, because he led this country through a brutal war against the Americans,'' she said. ''Many other people admire him for the very same reason.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (63%); BOYCOTTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



441 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

G.I.'s Kill 24 Insurgents In Battle Near Baghdad
Iraqi insurgents ambushed an American military convoy just outside Baghdad, igniting a battle that left 24 of the attackers dead and seven wounded. The unusually bold assault, which wounded six American soldiers, appeared to be the biggest against an American target since the Jan. 30 elections. A9

Rumsfeld Blames Turkey
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld pointed to Turkey, a U.S. ally, as a contributor to the high number of anti-American insurgents in Iraq because of its refusal to permit U.S. troops to cross its territory during the invasion a year ago. A8

Annan to Push for Changes
Secretary General Kofi Annan will propose sweeping changes to the United Nations that would expand the Security Council to reflect modern realities of global power, restructure the discredited Human Rights Commission to keep rights violators from becoming members and redefine terrorism to end any justifications of its use for political resistance. A1

Elections Set After Much Delay
Afghanistan's much delayed parliamentary elections will be held on Sept. 18, more than a year after they were originally scheduled, though voting by smaller districts, to select a third of the members of the upper house of Parliament, will be postponed yet again until 2006. A9

Peres Fears Government Future
As Israel continues to hand land over to Palestinian control, Shimon Peres, the deputy prime minister, said he was worried about the survival of the Israeli government in a vote on the state budget that must take place before the end of March. A6

U.S. Cuts Off Nicaragua
The United States has suspended military assistance to Nicaragua because it has failed to move forward with the destruction of an arsenal of antiaircraft missiles that the Bush administration considers a possible terrorist threat. A3

Scientist Sold Engineering
Multi-national nuclear investigators now believe that the black market network run by the Pakistani scientist A.Q. Khan was selling engineering secrets needed to make nuclear warheads. A7

NATIONAL A10-15

Congress Passes and Bush Signs Schiavo Measure
The House gave final Congressional approval to legislation that would allow a federal court to intervene in the case of Terri Schiavo, the brain-damaged Florida woman whose feeding tube was disconnected. The measure was signed quickly at the White House by President Bush. A1

Many Americans are taking an active role in their own deaths, some with the help of their doctors and others through actions of their own that blur the definition of suicide. Experts say support for physician-assisted suicide, now considered morally acceptable by more than half of Americans, is likely to increase as baby boomers demand a say over their deaths. A1

The White House said President Bush's dramatic early return from vacation was necessary to save the life of Terri Schiavo, but Republicans and religious figures said the move was also political: a powerful embrace of the ''culture of life'' issues of religious conservatives who helped him win the White House in 2004. A15

A Town for Sign Language
Detailed blueprints for a town in South Dakota built around the use of American Sign Language are expected to be drawn by planners, designers and future residents. But the idea does not come without its critics, who say such a town may isolate the deaf more than ever. A1

Nonprofits Question Motive
Roughly a dozen nonprofit organizations, including the N.A.A.C.P., have said government agencies and Congressional offices have used reviews, audits, investigations, law enforcement actions and the threat of a loss of federal money to discourage them from activities and advocacy that in any way challenge government policies. A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Science Suffers at NASA
Scientific research programs at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration are facing financing problems because of President Bush's push for spaceflight and because of new procedures that no longer shield the research from cost overruns by spaceflight programs. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Only One Solid Competitor For Proposed Stadium Site
With the deadline for bids for the West Side railyards expiring today, it appears that the Jets, who want to use the Manhattan site for a football stadium, have only one solid competitor: Cablevision. B1

A Shadow Agency
A private group formed to develop 84 acres of state-owned land in Yonkers and give it a much-needed economic boost is now being criticized as a haven where friends of politicians can find high-paying jobs and wield huge sums of money. B1

Big Dreams Scratched
The dreams of a flood of would-be winners evaporated when The Daily News announced that its promotional Scratch n' Match game had directed players to scratch off a wrong number on their game cards. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Revised Penalty for Steroid Use
A revised agreement on the penalties for first-time steroids users in Major League Baseball was reached that eliminated a loophole which allowed for a monetary fine as another disciplinary option. The new agreement states that suspensions will be the only disciplinary measure for players testing positive for steroids. D1

ARTS E1-8

American Wins Pritzker Prize
Thom Mayne, who has been called the bad boy and angry young man of Los Angeles architecture, was named the winner of this year's Pritzker Architecture Prize, considered the profession's highest honor. He is the first American to win the prize in 14 years. E1

Aufbau Resumes Circulation
The German-Jewish publication Aufbau, which has chronicled and helped influence New York's Jewish population for more than 70 years, was on the verge of going under. But thanks to a generous Zurich financier and a young Swiss editor, Aufbau has resumed publication with the bold goal of pushing Europe's German-speaking Jews into the mainstream. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Apple Tries to Cut Chatter
The decision by Steven P. Jobs, Apple's co-founder, to sue Web sites that reported on the company's product plans is not surprising to many Silicon Valley veterans. Some say the move could serve to strengthen Mr. Jobs's marketing magic. C1

Papers Try Tabloid Format
Newspaper executives are considering shrinking their formats to look more like tabloids in the hope that less will prove to be more. But advertisers are not convinced they can get the same bang for their buck from these proposed tabloid formats. C1

Questioning Viacom's Strategy
Wall Street analysts are forecasting that Viacom's cable division will be cooling off in the next several years, calling into question the timing of a plan to split up the company. C1

Clear Channel Battles Jam
A jury in a federal court in Chicago has been hearing evidence in Jam Productions' lawsuit against Clear Channel, asserting that Clear Channel used its leverage to illegally block Jam from becoming the sponsor of Supercross racing. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Our terrorist-friendly borders; the real on-time budget; that Scalia charm.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

OBITUARIES B7

Philip Lamantia
The San Francisco poet who embraced Surrealism and later associated himself with the West Coast Beat community, he was 77. B7

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E4
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); APPROVALS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); BUDGETS (64%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (62%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); SUICIDE (60%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SHIMON PERES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005



442 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A New Automaker Mantra: Emissions? What Emissions?

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 21 

 BODY:
Several automakers, among them Toyota, Ford Motor and BMW, are financing an advertising campaign aimed at politicians that asserts that automobiles are ''virtually emission-free.''
 The campaign is part of an effort by a broad coalition of automakers to present their vehicles as environmentally benign at a time when the coalition is suing California to block a new regulation to curb global warming emissions and is continuing to lobby in Washington against tougher fuel economy regulations. 
 A print version of the ad has appeared in Congressional journals like Roll Call, Congress Daily and Congressional Quarterly, as well as the industry trade publication Automotive News, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the lobbying group behind the campaign. A radio version of the ad has run on WTOP, a station in Washington. 
 The ads have ignited a countercampaign by the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group that says its efforts have generated 20,000 complaints asking the Federal Trade Commission to investigate whether the industry is making misleading claims.
 While regulations have indeed forced automakers to act against emissions of smog-forming pollutants, the advertisements essentially ignore greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide as an automotive emission. Smog-forming emissions also remain a public health issue, according to environmental and consumer groups, as the number of vehicles on the road continues to increase with the population.
 ''Our advertising-practices division and our enforcement division are both aware of the ad and the campaign by U.C.S.,'' said Mitch Katz, a spokesman for the trade commission. ''We are evaluating the complaints we've received right now, but we don't have anything to say at this point.''
 He declined to say how many complaints the commission received.
 The auto alliance includes most major automakers: Toyota, General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Mazda, BMW, Mitsubishi, Porsche and Volkswagen.
 The advertisements appear to be a turnabout from previous public statements by automakers regarding concerns about vehicle emissions. 
 In a speech last August, Toyota's president, Fujio Cho, said that levels of both smog-forming emissions and greenhouse gas emissions remained significant enough that reducing them was a business imperative.
 ''If automakers don't reduce smog-forming emissions, greenhouse gases and the need for petroleum, I believe we won't be in business,'' he said.
 The print version of the alliance ad shows a picture of a toddler sitting in a car seat eating a Popsicle.
 ''Your car may never be spotless but it's 99 percent cleaner than you think,'' the ad says. ''Autos manufactured today are virtually emission-free. And that's a dramatic improvement over models from just thirty years ago.''
 Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the alliance, said the ad's use of the term ''virtually emission-free'' should be understood to refer only to emissions classified as pollutants by the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Whether greenhouse gases are considered pollutants is a politically charged issue. While the Clinton administration determined that carbon dioxide is a pollutant, the Bush administration reversed the decision. Several states and environment groups are suing to force the E.P.A. to regulate carbon dioxide emissions as pollutants. 
 But David Friedman, research director for the clean vehicles program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said the advertisement itself made no such distinction -- it simply called vehicles ''virtually emission-free.''
 ''It reminds you of the cigarette makers,'' he said. ''They're trying to hide the harmful emissions coming from their vehicles.''
 Though some cars on the road today are considered to emit roughly 99 percent fewer smog-forming particles than cars did in the pre-regulatory 1960's, Ms. Bergquist said in an interview that the statement could not be broadly applied to all new cars and trucks until new regulations of such emissions take effect by the end of the decade.
 Automotive emissions of greenhouse gases, however, have been rising for two reasons: the number of vehicles is increasing, and average fuel economy has declined since the late 1980's because of surging sales of sport utility vehicles and big pickup trucks. According to the E.P.A., carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light-duty trucks have risen about 20 percent since 1990, to 1.1 billion metric tons in 2003.
 Many scientists have raised potentially serious health concerns related to global warming, though there are dissenters. Most major automakers, however, have said in other forums that they do take the issue of global warming emissions quite seriously. In DaimlerChrysler's 2004 environmental report, for instance, the chief executive, Jurgen Schrempp, said in an opening statement that reducing ''CO2 emissions is the central topic as we strive for sustainable mobility.''
 But Dennis Fitzgibbons, a spokesman for Daimler in Washington, said last Thursday that the alliance's advertisement referred to emissions ''that have health-based effects that are defined under the Clean Air Act.''
 A spokeswoman for Toyota, an alliance member that has spent millions of dollars building a public image as an environmentally conscious company, dismissed the notion that greenhouse gases should be considered in the context of an ad that claimed autos were ''emission free.''
 ''I think you're mixing apples and oranges,'' said Martha Voss, a Toyota spokeswoman. ''CO2 is technically an emission, but not a pollutant.''
 Toyota's most recent environmental report dwelled at length on the company's efforts to reduce global warming emissions.
 ''We can no longer afford to ignore the signs of global warming,'' Josephine Cooper, the company's vice president for government and industry affairs, stated in the report.
 Ford's chairman and chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., has long been one of the most outspoken executives in Detroit about the subject. His company published a newspaper advertisement in 2001 that read: ''Global warming. There. We said it.''
 In his company's environmental report last year he wrote that he had asked executives ''to develop a sensible approach to the issues of climate change, energy security and fuel economy.''
 The project was ''a key element in building our company for the next 100 years.''
 Privately, Ford executives laid out an internal goal last year to improve fuel economy 80 percent by 2030 as part of a plan to halt growth in global warming emissions.
 ''Clearly automakers have made great strides in reducing E.P.A.-targeted pollutants,'' Oscar Suris, a Ford spokesman, said last week.. ''We are engaged in a meaningful dialogue on climate change that needs to continue.''
 Not all automakers appeared to agree with the alliance's blanket assessment that cars are now ''virtually emission-free.'' Honda, which is not an alliance member and has long been independent in its stance, said in a statement last Thursday that ''today's vehicles in many cases are virtually emissions-free with regards to smog-forming'' gases. ''However, CO2 emissions remain a significant contributor to global warming trends.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An ad sponsored by the auto industry, left, asserts that vehicles are environmentally cleaner than most people realize. But the Union of Concerned Scientists is sponsoring an ad denouncing the industry campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (94%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); EMISSIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SMOG (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



443 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Jets' Bid To Overtake The Patriots Is Flagging

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
FREE from salary-cap restrictions and in partnership with six real estate developers, the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson, submitted a $720 million bid yesterday for the rights to the site of a proposed $1.7 billion stadium on the Far West Side. But will it be enough?
 TransGas Energy Systems' bid was $1 billion, although its structure might not impress the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board. Cablevision, which planned a housing development called Hudson Gardens, improved its original $600 million bid, but by how much was unknown. 
 With a bid to the 2010 Super Bowl and perhaps the 2012 Olympics riding on the construction of a Jets stadium, the M.T.A. is expected to announce the winner at its March 31 board meeting. Approval from the state's Public Authority Control Board is also needed.
 But with all the controversy over the stadium, what about the team that the Jets will present for the 2005 season?
 Considering the players that departed so far in the free-agency free-for-all compared with those who have signed, the Jets' current roster is not as solid as it was when it produced a 10-6 record last season and earned a playoff victory over San Diego.
 LaMont Jordan, the dependable backup to running back Curtis Martin, jumped to the Oakland Raiders for many more millions than the Jets could afford under the salary cap. To replace him, the Jets signed Derrick Blaylock, who had been Priest Holmes's capable backup in Kansas City.
 In a swap of wide receivers, the Jets reacquired Laveranues Coles from the Redskins in a trade for Santana Moss. Needing a backup for quarterback Chad Pennington, they signed Jay Fiedler, the former Dolphins starter. He represents an upgrade over the former No. 2, Quincy Carter, who enrolled in a drug-rehabilitation program late last season.
 But the Jets have been weakened by the departure of offensive tackle Kareem McKenzie (to the Giants), defensive tackle Jason Ferguson (to the Cowboys) and tight end Anthony Becht (to the Buccaneers).
 To replace Ferguson, the Jets signed defensive tackle Lance Legree (from the Giants).
 Two questions also hover over the Jets:
 How completely has Pennington recovered from rotator-cuff surgery on his throwing shoulder, and how seriously will John Abraham pursue the multimillion dollar offers he is likely to attract as a franchise defensive end about to test the market as a restricted free agent?
 Although the Jets have the right to match another club's offer to Abraham, they would be compensated with two first-round choices if they let him go. But they would be losing one of pro football's most feared pass rushers.
 Like it or not, whatever the Jets do or don't do between now and training camp in July will be measured against the makeup of the New England Patriots, the reigning two-time Super Bowl champions who are on a 32-2 roll since early in the 2003 season. Until the Jets can challenge the Patriots, they are doomed to be no better than a second-place team in the American Football Conference East, and no better than a possible wild card in the playoffs.
 The Patriots quietly added cornerback Duane Starks (from the Cardinals) and wide receiver/kick returner Tim Dwight (from the Chargers), but the return of Tedy Bruschi, the Pro Bowl inside linebacker who is the soul of their defense, is uncertain.
 Bruschi was hospitalized on Feb. 16 with what was described as a mild stroke. Since then, the Patriots have considered his medical condition a personal matter, not a team matter. He is controlling the information on his future. When Stacey James, the Patriots' executive director of media relations, visited him and asked him what he wanted to say, Bruschi told him:
 ''I'm not ready yet. This isn't a knee injury.''
 This mild stroke is much more serious, not only to cope with, but to recover from. And if Bruschi can't rejoin the Patriots, they will be without one of their best big-game players -- the linebacker who always seemed to force a turnover against Peyton Manning just when the Indianapolis Colts thought they were about to score a touchdown.
 Bruschi's absence would be a severe loss to the Patriots in their drive to be the first team to win three straight Super Bowls.
 Despite adding Starks and Dwight, the Patriots released two longtime dependables -- wide receiver/cornerback Troy Brown, who might be re-signed, and cornerback Ty Law, who planned to talk to the Jets after his recent visits to the Chiefs and the Steelers.
 The Patriots also lost wide receiver David Patten, guard Joe Andruzzi, offensive lineman Adrian Klemm and the third-string quarterback Jim Miller, signed by the Giants as the backup to Eli Manning.
 Wisely, the Patriots put a franchise stamp on Adam Vinatieri, pro football's best kicker, to accompany their celebrated core -- quarterback Tom Brady, running back Corey Dillon, wide receiver Deion Branch, defensive tackle Richard Seymour, defensive end Willie McGinest and safety Rodney Harrison.
 And ensconced in Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Mass., for many years to come, the Patriots know the status of their stadium future. The Jets don't.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Jets Ken Schroy and Emerson Boozer helped deliver the team's bid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



444 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; AN APPRECIATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Bobby Short, Keeping the Party Going

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
There are few entertainers about whom one could say, So-and-so is simply the best. For nearly four decades, Bobby Short reigned at the Cafe Carlyle on New York's Upper East Side as America's quintessential male cabaret singer-pianist. The best at what he did, Mr. Short, who died yesterday, elevated the humble role of the piano-bar entertainer to an art. 
 To the extent that it flourishes in the music of Michael Feinstein, Steve Ross, Eric Comstock and Billy Stritch, to name four talented younger practitioners, that tradition owes an incalculable debt to Bobby Short. 
 Twice a year, this eternally boyish bon vivant bounced into the Cafe Carlyle to play the indefatigably merry host of a Manhattan party that lasted for only a little more than an hour, but left you feeling refreshed and aglow. He evoked the joyful hi-de-ho of Cab Calloway, refined for the salon. Giving himself to performance with the enthusiasm of an excitable child, he would often leap from his piano bench and throw out his arms as if to embrace the room, all the while maintaining perfect enunciation. At this elegant bash, guests from downtown, uptown, out of town and out of the country partied side by side under the spell of his unflappable bonhomie. 
 To dismiss Mr. Short, as some did, as a plaything of the rich and the chic is to overlook his contribution to jazz and to New York cultural life. He was one of the last exponents of an ebullient dusk-till-dawn nightclub culture that flourished in Manhattan until it was done in by television, rock 'n' roll and its own inflationary pressures. 
 At the keyboard, Mr. Short refined his own personal brand of stride piano. Vigorous and sophisticated but devoid of fuss and frills, it was as distinctive as his voice, to which it was inextricably wedded. Over the years, his sound evolved from that of a caroling choirboy into a huskier baritone whose timbre varied from fogbound to clear, depending on the night and sometimes on the moment. As his voice acquired deeper shades and rougher textures, he made adroit, expressive use of each new facet. 
 Championing the work of African-American songwriters like Duke Ellington, Calloway, Eubie Blake, James P. Johnson, Fats Waller and Andy Razaf, he placed their music on the same pedestal as standards by Cole Porter, Jerome Kern and Irving Berlin. Each performance suggested a continuing dialogue between uptown and downtown that demonstrated the depth of communication between Harlem and Broadway. His performances and recordings played a crucial role in leveling the racial playing field of American pop and helping bring a shamefully obscured history to light. 
 Because he entertained predominantly white audiences in upscale spaces like the Cafe Carlyle, Mr. Short could be mistakenly written off as a snob. Contributing to that impression was the air of la-di-dah insouciance he shared with other performers, like his friend Mabel Mercer, the great cabaret singer. A sense of style, however, is not to be confused with superficiality. Like Ms. Mercer, Mr. Short could plumb the depths of a song when the occasion demanded. 
 That style was an expression of Mr. Short's personal philosophy. Because his career was a fantastic feat of self-invention, it is little wonder that the predominant spirit he conveyed was a childlike awe and pleasure at living the high life. As the years piled up and he suffered from debilitating ailments that made walking increasingly difficult in his final years, he concealed his discomfort. Each performance became an act of self-transformation in which he threw off his troubles. Every time he sang Razaf and J.C. Johnson's racy announcement, ''Guess Who's in Town,'' he conveyed the exuberance of someone who had just breezed into the room to give the party a lift.
 For all his elegance, Mr. Short could never be called effete, and his performances burst with a playful, robust sensuality. Lil Green's bumping and grinding hymn to uninhibited lovemaking, ''Romance in the Dark,'' became a long-running showstopper that Mr. Short milked for every ounce of jolly lubricity.
 Taken together, the songs that formed the backbone of his enormous repertory became variations of that upbeat philosophy. At the very heart of it stood ''Just One of Those Things,'' Cole Porter's regret-free, laughing-it-off epitaph to a love affair that passes like a streak of lightning: ''It was great fun, but it was just one of those things.'' If there are regrets, they are minor compared with the sheer thrill of being alive and of having the chance to begin again. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bobby Short in the mid-1980's at his familiar spot at the Cafe Carlyle on the Upper East Side, where his appearances were legendary.
From left, Mr. Short in Hollywood in 1955
outside Le Cirque in 1987
and last May on an opening night, again at the Cafe Carlyle. (Photos by From left, William Claxton, courtesy Demont Photo
Bill Cunningham/The New York Times
Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Bobby Short, preparing for his New Year's Eve show in 2000 at the Cafe Carlyle
 it was his 33rd consecutive New Year's Eve there. (Photo by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%) Music

ORGANIZATION: Cafe Carlyle (NYC)

PERSON: Bobby Short; Stephen Holden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



445 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Similar Resume, Different Decade; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: For McNamara and Wolfowitz, a War and Then the World Bank

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
As defense secretary in the 1960's, Robert S. McNamara never showed any emotion in public about the war in Vietnam that he directed for seven years. But after he took over as the president of the World Bank in 1968, Mr. McNamara openly wept when he gave his annual reports about the dispossessed.
 ''I cried because I felt so involved in what we were doing,'' he said in an interview. 
 Now, a generation later, Mr. McNamara has a rare appreciation for the predicament facing President Bush's nominee to head the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense who is best known as an architect of the war in Iraq.
 Both men made their national reputations directing divisive wars. Both were rewarded with nominations to head the World Bank and both are adamant that their qualifications rest on their interest in development and the world's poor; in Mr. Wolfowitz's case, it includes his work in the 1980's as the American ambassador to Indonesia.
 But when the European members of the World Bank hold a private meeting on Tuesday to discuss Mr. Wolfowitz's qualifications, the Iraq war and Mr. Wolfowitz's advocacy of using American influence to spread democracy around the world will be at the top of the agenda. Since it appears that their governments are willing to approve of Mr. Wolfowitz, much of the discussion is expected to turn on how Mr. Wolfowitz's record will translate into development policy, especially on the question of whether he will seek to make democracy-building paramount over basic aid issues like education, health and economics, according to diplomats involved in the decisions.
 ''There is a sense of discomfort over Iraq, but the fact that he is a heavyweight political figure with good intellectual qualities makes us think that it could be worse,'' said one of the officials who insisted on not being identified because of the sensitivity of the nomination.
 European business journals that watch development issues, like The Financial Times and The Economist have been critical of Mr. Wolfowitz's appointment. In an editorial, ''Wolf at the Door,'' The Economist compared him to Mr. McNamara, who had ambitious ideas about eliminating poverty but, the magazine argued, ended up weakening the institution. 
 ''His appointment tells the world that Mr. Bush wants to capture the World Bank and make it an arm of American foreign policy,'' the editorial stated.
 Of special concern at the bank, an organization within the United Nations system, is how Mr. Wolfowitz handled Iraq after the Saddam Hussein regime fell. These include his public rejection of the recommendation by Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, then the Army chief of staff, to send more troops to stabilize the country, the subsequent breakdown in security needed to rebuild the country and the mistaken premise that the country could be rebuilt largely from Iraqi oil revenue.
 ''I support Paul Wolfowitz but with the big caveat that he shares responsibility for the failures of postwar Iraq,'' said Sebastian Mallaby, author of a contemporary history of the World Bank, ''The World's Banker: A Story of Failed States, Financial Crises and the Wealth and Poverty of Nations'' (Council on Foreign Relations/Penguin Press, 2004). ''That is a piece of his record that he has got to live down.'' 
 John Cavanagh, director of the liberal Institute for Policy Studies, said that Mr. Wolfowitz's record in Iraq suggested that he had a difficult time admitting mistakes and should not be given a second chance at the World Bank.
 "He ignored or belittled anyone who disagreed with him before the war in Iraq,'' Mr. Cavanagh said, ''and when it turned out there were no weapons of mass destruction, shut out the Europeans from most reconstruction contracts.'' 
 Mr. Wolfowitz frames his move as continuing to work for peace ''on a different line of action.''
 He points to his work as the American ambassador to Indonesia in Ronald Reagan's administration. According to two career diplomats who carried out his policies in Indonesia, Mr. Wolfowitz did break new ground promoting human rights in East Timor, giving financial aidto local labor unions and Islamic groups and documenting official corruption.
 David Merrill, a retired foreign service officer who directed the United States aid program under Mr. Wolfowitz, said that his former boss had supported economic development for its own sake as well as being a necessary means for building a middle class, the civil society and a democracy. To that end, he approved aid for environmental activists, labor rights groups and private Islamic groups, which was a rarity 20 years ago.
 ''He listened to our ideas and we listened to his and it was the perfect relationship,'' Mr. Merrill said.
 Fighting corruption was one of his big causes, Mr. Merrill said.
 At one point, Mr. Wolfowitz told him to end a food aid program because the wife of President Suharto was profiting hugely from the program through her partial ownership of the flour mill where the American wheat was milled.
 Timothy Carney, the political counselor at the embassy under Mr. Wolfowitz, said he had to make a long, extensively documented report on corruption. ''We weighed in against corruption and its bad effects, essentially arguing back to Washington that the Suharto administration had exceeded the norms,'' Mr. Carney said. Mr. Wolfowitz also encouraged him to publicize human rights abuses in East Timor and in Indonesia as a whole.
 Mr. Wolfowitz resists the idea that his work at the Pentagon played a role in his nomination to head the World Bank.
 Likewise, Mr. McNamara rejects the notion that he asked to run the World Bank to atone for the destruction in the Vietnam War.
 ''No, it was not redemption for Vietnam,'' he said. ''Frankly, I don't think Vietnam had anything to do with me going to the bank.''
 Mr. McNamara said he thought that Mr. Wolfowitz's war experience would be of little help at the World Bank.
 ''I know there is a theory out there that giving economic aid to failed states will help combat terrorism, but there are so many of those, you're not going to be able to deal with them all,'' Mr. McNamara said.
 It is really a question of political will, not of terrorism or democracy, Mr. McNamara said, and whether the richest countries in the world will give the resources needed to help poor countries improve.
 ''In the Defense Department I learned that identifying the problem is always more difficult than finding an answer,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Vietnam War

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Union; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Elizabeth Becker; Paul D Wolfowitz; Robert S Mcnamara

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); VIET NAM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Iraq; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



446 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A.I.G. Fires 2 Top Officers For Not Aiding Inquiry
Two American International Group executives were dismissed for refusing to cooperate with regulators in an investigation of the firm's accounting of certain reinsurance transactions.
 The two men, Howard Smith, the chief financial officer, and Christian Milton, the vice president for reinsurance, were fired after refusing to answer questions about a transaction between A.I.G. and General Re. [Page C3.]

SunGard Surges on Takeover Offer
Shares of SunGard Data Systems soared on news that a group of private investment companies was close to buying the company for more than $10.5 billion, or about $35 a share. The consortium, which includes Silver Lake Partners, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the Carlyle Group, Bain Capital, the Texas Pacific Group, and Thomas H. Lee Partners, is hoping to reach an agreement this week. [C16.]

A Battle for 2 Italian Banks
Takeover bids for two Italian banks have highlighted the uncertain status of power in Europe. Market Place: Floyd Norris. [C7.]

Ask Jeeves in Deal With IAC
IAC/InterActiveCorp is buying Ask Jeeves, the search engine, in a $1.95 billion deal. [C7.]

Offers Raised for Rail Yards
The Jets raised its offer to build a football stadium over the West Side rail yards, and two other bidders also increased their bids. [A1.]

Positive News on Cancer Drug
Bayer and Onyx Pharmaceuticals said that an experimental drug had delayed the worsening of kidney cancer in a late-stage clinical trial and that they would file for approval in hopes of getting the product on the market in the United States next year. [C2.]

Competition for MCI Heats Up
The war for MCI escalated as the chairmen of Qwest Communications and Verizon both released letters stating their cases for buying the long-distance carrier. [C16.]

Medicis Acquiring Inamed
Medicis Pharmaceutical has agreed to acquire Inamed in a deal valued at $2.8 billion. [C16.]

Dualing Emissions Campaigns
Several automakers, among them Toyota, Ford and BMW, are financing a campaign aimed at politicians that asserts that cars are ''virtually emission-free.'' The ads have ignited a countercampaign, left, by the Union of Concerned Scientists asking the Federal Trade Commission to investigate if the industry is making misleading claims. Advertising. [C8.]

Ex-WorldCom Head Settles Claims
Bert C. Roberts, the former chairman of WorldCom, has agreed to pay $5.5 million to settle claims by investors who said he should have known the books were falsified before signing off on $15.4 billion in bond sales. [C4.]

N.B.A. to Announce Game Deals
The National Basketball Association is expected to announced licensing deals with five major publishers of video games. [C8.]

Stocks Decline on Inflation Fears
Inflation fears sent stocks lower. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 64.28 points, to 10,565.39; the S.&P. 500-stock index declined 5.87 points, to 1,183.78; and the Nasdaq composite index lost 0.28 point, to 2,007.51. [C9.]

Praise for Cost-Efficient Luxury
Business travel with a touch of luxury makes a comeback. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,565.39 down 64.28Nasdaq composite -- 2,007.51 down 0.2810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.52% up 0.01The euro -- $1.3173 down 0.0138The dollar -- 105.04 yen up 0.36Graph: ''TODAY'' shows producer prices.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks share prices of SunGard for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BONDS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (70%); CLINICAL TRIALS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); CANCER DRUGS (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); CANCER (70%); TOYS & GAMES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (65%); KIDNEY DISEASE (65%); KIDNEY CANCER (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (65%); BASKETBALL (62%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); PUBLISHING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); KKR & CO LP (83%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); SUNGARD DATA SYSTEMS INC (57%); SILVER LAKE PARTNERS LTD (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (56%); TPG CAPITAL LP (56%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (54%); CENTURYLINK INC (53%); MEDICIS PHARMACEUTICAL CORP (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); KKR (NYSE) (83%); IACI (NASDAQ) (82%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (54%); CTL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



447 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: At Harvard, an Unseemly Display of Wealth or Merely a Clean Room?

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., March 21 

 BODY:
The cleaning implements in Leonard Novy's apartment at Harvard consist of two sponges so calcified they could be from the Mesozoic Era and a broom betraying few hints of much actual sweeping.
 The other day, there was a grimy handprint on the wall, a blizzard of dust on the television, and a carpet so littered with lint that it was hard to tell whether it was gray or had turned that color under a film of filth.
 ''I think we've set a record,'' said Mr. Novy, 27, a graduate student whose isosceles-triangle-shaped apartment is accessorized with a deck of cards and a corkscrew. ''I've lived here since September, and we haven't vacuumed once.'' 
 So he was delighted when his roommate, Gregor Schmitz, 29, hired a new cleaning service called DormAid, run by Harvard students.
 ''It really just struck me as a great idea, given the state of our apartment and given how expensive it is to buy all these tools,'' Mr. Novy said, watching two women from a professional cleaning service contracted by DormAid scrub and scour. For $85.57, they not only cleaned but also placed a Lindt chocolate truffle on the pillow of Mr. Novy's lumpy futon.
 But DormAid, the brainchild of some entrepreneurial sophomores who are offering the service at Boston University, Princeton and elsewhere, is not universally welcomed at Harvard.
 A recent editorial in The Crimson, the student newspaper, blasted it, calling for a boycott.
 ''Hiring someone to clean dorm rooms is a convenience, but it is also an obvious display of wealth that would establish a perceived, if unspoken, barrier between students of different economic means,'' the editorial said. ''It's up to each one of us to ensure that our peers feel comfortable on campus, and if that means plugging in a vacuum every two weeks, then so be it.''
 Alex Slack, a junior who is an associate editorial chairman at The Crimson and who wrote a separate column critical of DormAid in November, said: ''Frankly, I wouldn't really respect anyone who got this DormAid thing. Suck it up and pick up your own room, I guess.''
 Besides, said Mr. Slack, whose own room was strewn with clothes and beer cans on a recent visit, ''I kind of revel in being able to live sort of slovenly.''
 Such arguments irk DormAid's progenitors, Michael Kopko and Dave Eisenberg, whose agility with business models and marketing strategies would impress any Sam Walton.
 ''There's so many ways in which on our campus you're able to display wealth in so much more obvious a fashion than having someone quietly clean your room,'' said Mr. Eisenberg, 20, a psychology major from Westfield, N.J.. He said class differences were evident in clothes, cars and entertainment, even in a campus laundry service that would wash, fold and place students' clothes in a ''very noticeable'' yellow bag.
 ''A minimum cleaning is $17.99 per roommate,'' said Mr. Kopko, 20, an economics major from Nyack, N.Y., adding that to avoid stratifying people, if one roommate does not want the service, DormAid will clean only the rooms of those who do. ''How much does it cost to go to a movie with popcorn, buy a CD, buy a DVD?''
 Mr. Kopko said that the business might draw revenues of $200,000 at Harvard, but that most of it would go toward relatively high wages, making Harvard a sort of ''Saks Fifth Avenue'' for DormAid, a showcase to generate interest on other campuses.
 Mr. Kopko said that he was ''not, like, a neat freak,'' but that as a freshman he had hired professional cleaners for his room and eventually ''had half the building getting cleaned.''
 Last summer, after he and his brother Matt, 18, a freshman at Princeton, conceived DormAid, Mr. Kopko advertised it by writing a letter to parents of sophomores and by wearing a sandwich board the first few days of school. Then Harvard officials stopped him, vetoing DormAid because of concerns about insurance, security, the Fair Labor Standards Act and elitism, said Judith H. Kidd, an associate dean.
 Mr. Kopko and Mr. Eisenberg, who have invested about $7,000 in the business, appealed with a sheaf of counterarguments and fixes. (Princeton and Boston University, they said, put up no such fuss.)
 They proposed that a cleaning service would do the mopping, dusting and fumigating, but that a student would supervise each crew and earn about $10 an hour. 
 They agreed to change the company's name from DorMaid to DormAid because, Mr. Kopko said, some Harvard officials said ''maid'' was ''sexist and demeaning.''
 And they conducted a campus survey, finding that 74 percent of respondents supported the idea and that 26 percent would use the service. Of those who would not use it, only 25 percent said the reason was its cost. That convinced Harvard officials that a class clash was not a big issue, Ms. Kidd said.
 But one of those telephoned randomly for the survey was Mr. Slack, who was woken from a nap induced by his Arabic homework.
 He wrote a column titled ''Really Conspicuous Consumption,'' saying ''wealth probably shouldn't correlate with dust bunny size.''
 And in case readers failed to get a vivid picture, Mr. Slack, 20, a history major from Winnetka, Ill., added, ''Being clean is not something to be proud about here. My roommates and I sometimes measure our self-worths by comparing consecutive underwear-wearing days.''
 Some people share Mr. Slack's view.
 ''There is no reason to highlight the socioeconomic differences among the students here,'' said Ofole Mgbako, a freshman.
 But Elena Castaneda, another freshman, who requested a vacuum for Christmas, said that with Harvard's demanding schedules, ''the need for clean dorms is much greater than the silly idea that it would be another way to demarcate classes within Harvard.''
 Joseph Cianflone, 21, a sophomore who is DormAid's ''general counsel,'' said that as a student on full financial aid, ''I'm one of those who are supposed to be up in arms. But I work two or three jobs now. I never have time to clean my room.''
 Besides, the DormAid leaders said, no one objects to Dorm Crew, a university-run service that pays students to clean bathrooms on campus.
 Still, Mr. Novy, a visiting student from Germany, said he could understand the class warfare argument.
 ''I definitely wouldn't tell my parents about it,'' Mr. Novy said. ''They were students in the 60's, and they wouldn't have ordered such a service for political reasons. They would have probably done a sit-in in front of the apartments.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dave Eisenberg, left, and Michael Kopko organized DormAid. Critics of the cleaning service, including Alex Slack, a student journalist, right, say it could create tension among students.
 Leonard Novy, a graduate student, said his apartment had not been vacuumed since September. His roommate recently called on DormAid, which dispatched Phyllis Boseman, center, and Linda Terbel. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (78%); BOYCOTTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); COMPANY STRATEGY (60%) Colleges and Universities; Dormitories; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%) Harvard University; Boston University; Princeton University

PERSON: Pam Belluck; Dave Eisenberg; Michael Kopko

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



448 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2301 words

HEADLINE: Black Coaches In N.B.A. Have Shorter Tenures

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
The men coaching N.B.A. teams in recent seasons have looked like no other group of head coaches in the history of major American professional sports. Today, 10 of the league's 30 coaches are black, ranging from young former players like Terry Porter in Milwaukee to veterans of multiple coaching jobs like Bernie Bickerstaff in Charlotte.
 At a time when the National Football League can count only 10 black head coaches in its history, the National Basketball Association has reached a position rare for any business: when a black coach or executive is hired or fired, almost nobody mentions race. Opportunity in the N.B.A. appears to have become color blind.
 But the coaches who have received those opportunities have not had much time to enjoy them. In a pattern that has gone largely unnoticed, except among black coaches themselves, white coaches have been holding on to their jobs for significantly longer than black coaches. Yesterday, the Cleveland Cavaliers fired Paul Silas, who was in his second season with the team. 
 Over the last decade, black N.B.A. coaches have lasted an average of just 1.6 seasons, compared with 2.4 seasons for white coaches, according to a review of coaching records by The New York Times. That means the typical white coach lasts almost 50 percent longer and has most of an extra season to prove himself.
 This month alone, three of the six black coaches who had held their jobs for more than a season have been fired, including Silas, who had eight years of N.B.A coaching experience before joining Cleveland. The Orlando Magic dismissed Johnny Davis last Thursday after less than two seasons. On March 2, the Portland Trail Blazers fired Maurice Cheeks, then the black coach with the second-longest tenure; he had lasted almost four seasons.
 ''Our white counterparts are given more the benefit of the doubt,'' Silas said in an interview in January. ''Things have changed dramatically in our society, but it still has a long way to go.''
 The gap has created a deep division among coaches and executives, one that splits largely but not exclusively along racial lines. Some, including Commissioner David Stern, said the numbers surprised them and called them largely a coincidence. Doc Rivers, the coach of the Boston Celtics, who is black, said he thought that owners and general managers now gave white and black coaches equal chances to succeed.
 The league, some people said, is simply too competitive for race to affect executives.
 ''I believe that right now each coaching decision is based on a fierce determination made by the owner and general manager that they want to win -- and that that decision has become color blind,'' Stern said. He called the league ''the best example of equal-opportunity employment, even if against the judgment of perfection it isn't there yet.''
 The contrast in tenures might be most easily seen among coaches with the greatest longevity. Of the 14 N.B.A. coaches who have held jobs for at least five seasons since 1989, only one has been black -- Lenny Wilkens, in Atlanta, from 1993 to 2000 -- despite the fact that teams began to hire black coaches in large numbers in the late 1980's. The three active N.B.A. coaches with the longest tenure are all white, and they have been in place for about a decade on average.
 The pattern holds in almost any important category of coaches. Winning black coaches have been replaced sooner than winning white coaches on average, and experienced black coaches have served shorter tenures than experienced white coaches. The same is true among losing coaches, among rookie coaches and among coaches who played in the N.B.A. and those who did not.

Minding the Tenure Gap
 Black N.B.A. coaches and executives said they were proud that the league was one of just a handful of organizations to have turned over a large share of leadership jobs to minorities. They added that the situation was continuing to improve. But they also said they had long noticed the difference in coaching tenures, despite the lack of attention it has received and the speed with which many of those same coaches found new jobs.
 ''Does race have anything to do with this? Now I'm sure the people who do the hiring say no,'' said Al Attles, an assistant general manager of the Golden State Warriors, who in 1969 became the third black coach in N.B.A. history and later won a championship. ''But it surely has to be something more than wins and losses. If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, eventually you have to say it's a duck.''
 Even if the cause was rarely conscious racism, coaches said, age-old athletic stereotypes -- the black athlete as a prodigal talent and white athlete as hard-working gym rat -- can make blacks seem particularly unsuited to be good teachers. Some black coaches said they thought that team owners and general managers, a largely white group, were probably most at ease with people similar to them, just as most people were.
 And players, both black and white, are still far more accustomed to seeing whites in positions of authority than blacks, coaches said. Some black coaches, including Cheeks in Portland and Byron Scott with the Nets, lost their jobs after clashing with a black player.
 With any individual coaching change, the effect of race is almost impossible to perceive and may in fact be wholly absent. Black coaches were hesitant to point to specific examples.
 Silas, for example, seemed to lose control of his team recently, and the Cavaliers fined him $10,000 last week after he made a vulgar reference to a former member of the team. In New Jersey last season, Scott was fired after two straight trips to the N.B.A. finals, when the Nets were struggling to live up to expectations and some players seemed to have lost respect for him. 
 ''It's so subjective,'' Silas said earlier this season, referring to the effect that a coach's race has in any specific situation.
 The N.B.A. coach with the longest tenure today is Jerry Sloan, who is white and is in his 17th season as coach of the Utah Jazz. The calculations of average tenures by The Times included only coaches whose tenures had ended. But when Sloan and other active coaches were included, the gap between white and black coaches was nearly identical.
 To many white executives, the lack of a clear connection between race and individual firings makes the pattern seem all the more likely to be a coincidence. 
 ''My general feeling is that it's a performance league, and there is equality in it in that sense,'' said Donnie Walsh, the chief executive of the Indiana Pacers. ''If you do well, you're going to move on to a better job or another job. Those that aren't performing are going to get fired.''
 But researchers -- whether they study sports or the job market -- said the pattern in the N.B.A. matched that of many businesses. Across the economy, black workers have shorter job tenures on average than white workers. Some of the difference reflects the jobs blacks hold and the experience they bring. But some of the gap has no clear explanation.
 ''For black coaches, you have to be a Jesus miracle worker,'' said Butch Beard, who was fired after two disappointing years with the Nets in the mid-1990's and is now the head coach at Morgan State. ''With a bad team, ownership wants you to do more than what the team is capable of doing. If you don't pull it off right away, they think it is the coach's fault.''
 Beard added: ''This won't get me another job, but that's the truth. It's very disturbing to me.''
 A number of other coaches, current and former, declined to comment. Agents and team spokesmen said that coaches had little to gain by discussing a controversial topic that made some team executives uncomfortable. 

Building a Pipeline
 It was almost 40 years ago when Bill Russell succeeded Red Auerbach as the Celtics' coach, becoming the first black man to run a major league sports team since Fritz Pollard coached in the N.F.L. in the 1920's. The integration of the N.B.A. coaching ranks began to take off in the 1980's, when Stern and other league officials pushed teams to hire a diverse group of assistant coaches. 
 More recently, the league offered financial incentives for teams in its developmental league to hire former N.B.A. players, most of whom are black, as coaches. A coaching pipeline has been created. The N.B.A. also offers more opportunities today than it once did, because team executives have become less patient and tend to fire coaches more quickly than in the past. 
 Since Russell, the league has had dozens of black head coaches, and every one of the 30 N.B.A. franchises has had a black coach at some point.
 ''David Stern has made a conscious effort at building relationships'' between team executives and former players, said Rivers, the Celtics' coach. ''When you're comfortable with each other, it makes it easier to hire each other.''
 In the N.F.L., where a majority of players are also black, 3 of the 10 black men who became head coaches have been hired since 2002, when two outside lawyers and an economist released a report showing that black coaches had a better won-loss record, on average, when fired than white coaches did. The league later instituted a rule requiring teams looking for a head coach to interview at least one minority candidate or face a fine. 
 But if Russell represents the N.B.A.'s pioneering role in hiring, he is also a symbol of frustration to many black coaches and executives, and his experiences still echo with many of them. Critics called him lazy and aloof. Russell has said, ''A lot of it was pure racism.''
 Some of the whispers have not changed. Newspapers reported a few years ago that Silas, who was fired in 2003 after going 47-35 as the Hornets' coach, was angry that a white coach on another team had spread rumors that Silas was lazy.
 ''I've known a lot of white coaches who didn't work hard at all,'' Silas said in January. ''But the perception was that they did.''
 The stereotypes seem to spring from timeworn caricatures of athletes, which hold that whites work hard to make the most of limited skills while blacks are simply gifted, coaches said. Rivers said he could often tell whether a player described in a scouting report was white or black simply by looking at the adjectives. 
 The images extend beyond basketball. When Sports Illustrated surveyed major league baseball players recently and asked them to name a peer who got the best results from the least talent, the top five vote getters were white. Five of the six players said to be getting the least from the most talent were black.
 ''What really upsets me are the comments that came after the firing of Isiah Thomas and Byron Scott, that these guys were not organized enough, not committed enough,'' said Bill Walton, the Hall of Fame player and ABC announcer, who is white. ''This whole sense that these guys are not working at their craft is ridiculous.''
 Thomas, now the Knicks' president, was fired by the Pacers in 2002-3 after the team had gone 48-34.
 The stereotype has not prevented black coaches from being hired, but it might well seep into the minds of fans, players and ultimately the general manager when a team starts to struggle, coaches said. A losing record combined with faint doubts about a coach's work ethic or leadership ability can lead to a quick pink slip, they said.
 ''You still fight the myths and stereotypes,'' said Wayne Embry, a senior adviser to the Toronto Raptors, who in 1971, with the Bucks, became the first black general manager in a major sports league. ''I hate even talking about all these things, but that's where it is.''
 Lawrence F. Katz, an economics professor at Harvard, said that past discrimination could be contributing to the difference in coaching tenures. With more opportunities to coach in the past, white coaches could bring better resumes to a job vacancy and might be able to negotiate longer, richer contracts, making owners less willing to fire them.
 ''You would think that would erode over time,'' Katz said. ''But 'over time' can take a real long time.''
 Both black and white executives said they had no doubt that the situation had improved, though, and the records bear them out. Over the last decade, blacks have been hired to coach good teams just as often as whites have, based on teams' records in the season or partial season before a new coach took over. In the 1980's and the early 1990's, white coaches got significantly better jobs by this measure.
 ''I think it's something that will continue to get better,'' said Billy King, the general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers, who is black. ''Some of our better white coaches are getting up in age. It's going to be a new generation of coaches coming in.''

How the Study Was Conducted
 To determine whether there were differences in the tenures of white and black coaches in the National Basketball Association, The New York Times examined all coaching tenures in the N.B.A. since 1989. Other factors that could be related to a decision to dismiss a coach were also examined.
 The calculations were based on 159 coaching tenures, involving 110 different coaches, who either left their positions voluntarily or were dismissed. Only completed tenures were used in the calculations. Those currently coaching were not included, because some were hired very recently and that could skew the results. Any tenure that lasted fewer than 10 games was also excluded.
 Team performance turned out to be the most important factor in a coach's job security; winning games and making the playoffs strongly correlated with longer coach tenures. The quality of the team before the coach took it over was also a factor. But white coaches tended to keep their jobs longer than black coaches even when those factors were taken into account. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart in the sports pages yesterday of the longest-tenured coaches hired in the National Basketball Association in the last 15 years, with an article about the comparatively shorter tenures of black coaches, misstated the period that Jeff Van Gundy was head coach of the New York Knicks. It was March 1996 to December 2001, not 1995 to 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); BASEBALL (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers; Blacks; Baseball; Football; Basketball; Basketball

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%) National Basketball Assn; Major League Baseball; National Football League

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Ford Fessenden; David (Comr) Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



449 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Corruption Tarnishes China's Extraordinary Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 21 

 BODY:
China has been shaken by a series of large-scale bank robberies in recent years, but they are not the Bonnie-and-Clyde type.
 These are inside jobs: top executives, branch managers, loan officers and thousands of everyday employees have been running off with billions in customers' money.
 Consider what has happened in just the first two months of 2005. First, a branch manager at the Bank of China disappeared with more than $100 million in cash. A few weeks later, dozens of employees of another commercial bank were arrested for conspiring to steal nearly $1 billion. And then midlevel officials of the China Construction Bank fled with about $8 million. 
 There is no word yet whether any of the money has been recovered. But the chain of events underlines an ugly byproduct of China's aggressive embrace of a freewheeling, get-rich-quick form of capitalism: a long-running wave of corporate and government corruption scandals.
 The financial scandal watch gained new prominence last week with news reports that Zhang Enzhao, the head of the China Construction Bank, resigned after a lawsuit accused him of having accepted a $1 million bribe from an American company, Alltel Information Services. 
 The bank later issued a statement saying he resigned for ''personal reasons.''
 The scandals are by no means limited to banks. Since the early 1990's, China's modern robber barons have focused on all manner of state-run companies. Brokerage houses, government-controlled investment management firms and dozens of state-owned companies have been looted of billions, according to government investigators. The official media are filled with accounts of executives and public employees accused of embezzling money and sometimes gambling away those funds at border casinos.
 With China awash in speculative money intended to fuel its economic boom, many corporate executives have turned greedy, and even low-level employees are engaging in self-dealing transactions and learning how to funnel millions of dollars into offshore accounts.
 ''Corruption is pervasive in China,'' said Larry Lang, a professor of finance at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. ''A lot of state-owned companies have been simply stripped clean.''
 Few experts say that the scandals will slow China's roaring economic growth anytime soon. But economists and government officials worry that the glaring examples of fraud, bribery and embezzlement could badly hinder the development of the nation's banking and financial systems, which desperately need to be modernized for China to become a full-fledged economic superpower.
 In the last four years, at least 25 government officials have been sentenced to death for accepting bribes and kickbacks. Hundreds more are serving lengthy prison terms.
 But every month, the number of fraud cases seems to mushroom. Two weeks ago, the government announced that 58,000 people had been punished for misappropriating money or making unauthorized loans at just two of the big four state-owned banks. In 2003 alone, officials said that the equivalent of nearly $8 billion was pilfered from state-owned enterprises.
 In many ways, the corruption scandals offer a telling glimpse into the darker side of China's remarkable ascent. Though the economy is soaring, incomes are rising (per-capita income grew to $1,100 in 2003, the last year figures are available) and foreign investment continues to flood into the coastal provinces, China's finances are in a mess. 
 The benchmark Shanghai stock index is down about 40 percent over the last four years. Nearly half the nation's 130 brokerage houses are insolvent. And the biggest banks are weighed down by enormous debts. 
 ''The financing system that supports China's economic growth is very fragile,'' said Sun Lijian, a professor at Fudan University in Shanghai. ''People are often impressed by the look of cities like Beijing and Shanghai, or with the G.D.P. growth every year. But without a strong financing system, China's economic growth is unhealthy.''
 Experts say that weak regulation and oversight, deep-seated government corruption and poor risk-management practices are to blame for allowing fraud artists and looters to run off long before investigators discover that anything is amiss. 
 ''The incompleteness of the legal system provides an environment in which some people are willing and able to take chances to do illegal things,'' said Zhou Chunsheng, a Beijing University professor. 
 One industry plagued by scandal is also the one that holds everyone's cash: the state-run banks, which had bad loans valued around $204 billion last year, according to McKinsey & Company, the consultants. 
 Part of this results from greed at the top. In recent years, two high-ranking executives who worked at the Bank of China were sentenced to long prison terms for economic crimes. And in 2002, the Bank of China discovered that $500 million was missing from accounts after three of its bankers fled the country. 
 Hoping to prepare for foreign competition, some of the largest banks are trying to revamp their operations and tighten controls. The government helped by dipping into its huge foreign currency reserves last year to wipe out some $22.5 billion in bad loans at the Bank of China and the China Construction Bank. 
 Some of the worst-performing loans were taken over by state asset management companies. But they, too, are in trouble. In January, the government said four big state-run asset management companies engaged in illegal practices that involved $800 million. 
 Brokerage firms are in worse shape, with at least $20 billion in debt on their books. Many were poorly managed and undercapitalized when they began dealing in shares for investors in the 1990's, experts say. But for a while, those problems were masked by rising stock prices. 
 When prices began to fall in 2001, a lot of brokerage houses ran aground -- accused of gambling with investors' funds, investing in pet real estate projects that devoured money, and siphoning off large amounts into private or offshore accounts. With lawsuits piling up, more than a dozen brokerage firms have been seized by regulators in the last two years. 
 Part of the problem, experts say, is the poor state of the stock markets, which many liken to casinos. The Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, where 1,300 companies are listed, most state-run, are just over a decade old. Traders and experts complain about ineffective regulations, trading restrictions, a lack of transparency with listed companies and a disconnection between corporate profits and stock prices. 
 ''Here, earnings are irrelevant,'' said Song Fengming, a professor at Qinghua University in Beijing. ''Even if the performance is the worst, the stock price can still go up. And vice versa. Investors think the market is an A.T.M. machine.'' 
 In the last year, regulators have pressed hard to shore up the flagging stock market. Nonetheless, over the last four years, the Shanghai Stock Exchange has the worst-performing major stock index in the world.
 That the economy could be sizzling hot and the market sharply lower during much of the last few years is an oddity not lost on industry officials or small investors. 
 ''Why is G.D.P. going up and the stock market going down?'' asked an official at Gold State Securities who insisted on being identified only as Li. ''That's why investors won't come here.'' 
 Few investors seem to trust public companies created out of state enterprises. In one of the latest examples of fraud, three senior executives, including the chairman and chief financial officer at the Yili Corporation, a big dairy company, were arrested on suspicion that they had embezzled $50 million. 
 Can fraud here compare to cases in the United States, like those of Enron or WorldCom? The American companies were bigger, but analysts say that corporate fraud in China is far more routine and pervasive than in the West. ''The concept of an arm's-length transaction or arm's-length dealings are relatively new concepts in China,'' said Chen Zhiwu, a finance professor at the Yale School of Management.
 According to a study conducted by Beijing University, about 16 percent of the companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges over the last decade were subjected enforcement actions like fines or trading suspensions compared with 2 percent in the United States. 
 Professor Song at Qinghua University said he abandoned a research project with Standard & Poor's to rate state-owned companies because so many financial statements were not believable. Until that changes, China will find it tough to join the economic front ranks. 
 ''If China doesn't have a strong and stable financial system,'' said Din Jianping at the Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, ''the economy of the entire country won't be very stable.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Shanghai branch of China Construction Bank, whose chairman has quit. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 A branch of the China Construction Bank in Beijing. The chairman of the bank resigned last week amid a lawsuit that accused him of taking a bribe. Several leading banks have been cited in reports of corruption. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C6)Chart: ''One Thing After Another''As capitalism has taken hold in China, so, too, has corruption. In recent years, there have been a number of cases of embezzlement and other types of financial fraud that have caused billions of dollars in losses. Here are some of the biggest.FIRM/DATE: Delong (several related brokerage firms) -- April 2004AMOUNT STOLEN: As much as $3.6 billionWHAT HAPPENED: Some managers were arrested for illegal trading of state bonds. The firms were closed by the China Securities Commission. Investigations are continuing.FIRM/DATE: Huayin Trust, Dalian Securities -- Dec. 2004AMOUNT STOLEN: $3.2WHAT HAPPENED: Shi Xue, chairman of both firms, is on trial, accused of corruption, embezzling public money and state-owned assets, forging documents, contractual fraud, etc. Several dozen other people at companies have also been accused.FIRM/DATE: Southern Securities -- Jan. 2004AMOUNT STOLEN: $2.4WHAT HAPPENED: It was seized by regulators who accused it of illegally using investors' money to invest in the Hong Kong stock market.FIRM/DATE: Industrial and Commerce Bank of China -- June 2004AMOUNT STOLEN: $0.9WHAT HAPPENED: Several bank officials were arrested after Huaguang, a private company, obtained loans from the bank by forging documents.FIRM/DATE: China Aviation Singapore -- Dec. 2004AMOUNT STOLEN: $0.6WHAT HAPPENED: The chief executive was arrested for speculative investing without authorization.(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); BANK ROBBERY (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SCANDALS (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ROBBERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MISAPPROPRIATION (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); LITIGATION (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); ARRESTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TRENDS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); SENTENCING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Bribery; Frauds and Swindling; Embezzlement; Banks and Banking; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (57%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (57%); ALLTEL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of China; China Construction Bank 

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (57%); 0939 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Zhang Enzhao; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (89%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%) CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



450 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Drops. Jaws Drop. Prices? Well, You Know.

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
The big news in fashion this year is volume, massively so in skirts the shape of parachutes, billowing Empire waistlines and oversized shawl collars. Yet another way that fashion is expanding is in the prices of high-end designs.
 After years of relatively modest increases in luxury ready-to-wear, the prices of well-known items like a Chanel tweed jacket or a Giorgio Armani stretch wool pantsuit have spiked recently, largely because of the weakening dollar, which has declined about 30 percent against the euro since 2002. 
 That means that while European tourists are flocking to American department stores to take advantage of the exchange rate, American consumers of high-end fashion and leather goods from Europe may be in for sticker shock. Joan Stahl Israel, an independent personal shopper in New York, described looking at a price tag recently and thinking the number was so high, ''it's just a telephone number.'' Prices of spring designs, including accessories like watches and handbags, are about 10 percent to 15 percent higher than a year ago, retail executives say; after returning from buying trips to Milan and Paris for fall they predict there will be even steeper prices ahead for clothing made in Europe or with European fabrics. 
 ''Things are so expensive overall that it's really extraordinary,'' said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director at Barneys New York. ''If you want a well-tailored suit, don't even think of anything less than $2,000. If you want an evening gown, you're talking close to couture prices. And if you want a well-made handbag for less than $1,000, you'll be hard-pressed to find it.''
 The price of that trademark Chanel tweed jacket, for example, was $2,900 at Bergdorf Goodman in Manhattan in 2002. It is now $4,100, and the store will carry versions for $4,800 this fall. Bergdorf's also has ordered one of the most extravagant pieces in the fall Chanel collection: a $27,000 shearling barn jacket. 
 Prada's ''bowler'' handbag -- shaped like a bowling bag -- was first introduced in 2000, when the leather version was $870. The next year similar models cost $940 and $990, and a basic bowler in stores now is $1,325. A model for fall is expected to cost $1,445. 
 While the high end of fashion is getting higher, most of the $173 billion American apparel industry has moved in the opposite direction for more than a decade, as manufacturers have found ways to lower production costs. The practice of aggressively marking down merchandise early has also taught shoppers to expect to pay less. Illustrating this downward price trend, Levi Strauss has introduced a signature version of its jeans at Wal-Mart at less than half the price of its original 501's. 
 A 2004 holiday retail and consumer products report from Ernst & Young noted that overall apparel prices in December dropped 0.2 percent for the year and 8.7 percent from five years earlier. 
 Yet retail analysts also point to widespread demand for luxury goods, with companies like Neiman Marcus and LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, which specialize in expensive fashions, reporting robust sales, which has helped to moderate the rate of price deflation. LVMH has raised prices in the United States and Japan for its fashion merchandise, as well as for wine and Champagne, by about 5 percent.
 The soaring cost of European fashion is a sensitive issue for designers, who have been challenged by American retailers to help justify higher prices by improving their workmanship and styles. ''Designers are offering a lot more construction, fur trims in many cases, because if the price points will be up, the clothes will have to be more special,'' said Ronald Frasch, the chief merchant at Saks Fifth Avenue. 
 Fashion companies have taken different approaches to the declining dollar. Some have lowered their profit margins rather than steeply increase prices, and large companies can hedge currencies to lock in lower exchange rates for 2005 and 2006. 
 But the prevailing response is to pass on the expense to consumers with small seasonal adjustments, which have added up to significantly higher prices over three years. Consumers may be growing accustomed to paying more for basics like health care, gas and wireless services, but there may be a wall in terms of what they will pay for fashion.
 ''Last year the prices were somewhat within reason, but now they've priced themselves out of the market for me,'' said Rudy Torrijos, an equity researcher in New York who spends about $4,000 a year on clothes. ''I used to buy shirts from Etro and Dolce & Gabbana that were in the upper $200's, but now they are in the upper $300's. Some things are out of my price range.''
 Some companies have tried to hold on to customers like Mr. Torrijos by maintaining prices on classic pieces while marking up the trendier looks of the season. For example Loro Piana, the Italian cashmere company, is raising prices in the American market for fall by about 5 percent, with its staple V-neck sweaters priced at $550, and crew necks at $595, up $30. 
 ''We have had much more modest increases than we should have, as the problem is compounded by the fact that cashmere raw materials from China have increased significantly over the past six months,'' said Pier Luigi Guerci, the president of Loro Piana's United States division.
 Certain changes are modest enough that they may go unnoticed by the sort of affluent customers who are willing to spend on clothing what many Americans would consider exorbitant. Customers will pay $340, up from $310, for a ballet flat at Ferragamo's Fifth Avenue store this fall, and they also are likely to see the price of a man's tie go up $5, to $125. 
 A silk scarf from Hermes is currently $320, up about $25 from 2000. The company's chief executive, Robert Chavez, noted that Hermes had lowered its prices in 2001 to $250 to pass on to customers what was then a favorable exchange rate. 
 Other companies are bringing back some best sellers from seasons past and producing them with fewer bells and whistles to make them more competitive. Mr. Frasch noted that Dolce & Gabbana included an enormous amount of expensive astrakhan, a type of lambskin, in its fall runway show, but also offered a series of classic dresses in its showroom for less than $1,000.
 ''It seems like women's prices go up every year by 20 percent, but the make of the product tends to justify that,'' Mr. Frasch said. ''In men's suits it's more of a challenge, where the customer walks in with a price zone in his mind.''
 Ms. Gilhart of Barneys also pointed to pants and knitwear from Balenciaga that have been modified from the originals designed by Nicolas Ghesquiere so that they could be sold at a lower retail price, of $400 to $500.
 When comparing increases by some of Barneys' most popular labels, Ms. Gilhart pointed out that a Jil Sander wool stretch flannel jacket priced at $1,200 in 2003 had gone up to $2,010 this year, and that Armani wool suits rose to $3,450 for fall from $2,475 in 2003. But a Dolce & Gabbana suit had increased by only about $100, to $1,895, and Prada's classic boot-leg stretch pants had increased only to $495 from $450 in the same period. 
 ''Prada has been clever to hold their prices on the more basic comparable things, even though their average price point has gotten more expensive,'' Ms. Gilhart said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The weak dollar is a primary reason for the skyrocketing prices of high-end fashion and leather goods from Europe. Fashion executives predict that prices will go even higher.
CHANEL -- Comparable jacket in 2002: $2,900 NOW: $4,100 (Photo by Firstview)
PRADA -- Comparable bag in 2000: $870 NOW: $1,325 (Photo by Corina Lecca for The New York Times)
HERMES -- Scarf in 2001: $250 NOW: $320
PATEK PHILIPPE -- Watch in 2003: $9,400 NOW: $11,950
 CHANEL SHEARLING -- $27,000 (Photo by Firstview)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); READY TO WEAR (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); FABRICS (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); RETAILERS (75%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); EURO (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHANEL SAS (85%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3961 COSTUME JEWELRY & COSTUME NOVELTIES, EXCEPT PRECIOUS METAL (85%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (85%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (85%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005



451 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Iceland Granting Citizenship To Bobby Fischer, Held in Japan

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, March 21 

 BODY:
Iceland's Parliament voted Monday to grant citizenship to the American chess star Bobby Fischer, laying the groundwork, his supporters said, for his release from the Japanese prison where he has been held since last summer. 
 ''We are most happy,'' said Einar Einarsson, a spokesman for a committee that has been trying to free Mr. Fischer from Japan, where he is being detained while he fights deportation to the United States. 
 Mr. Einarsson, who called Mr. Fischer ''part of our modern saga and part of our recent history,'' said that the 62-year-old chess champion might be released ''in only a few days'' and that an Icelandic delegation planned to travel to Tokyo to escort him back to Reykjavik. 
 In Washington, the State Department had no comment, although a spokesman noted that renunciation of American citizenship did not allow citizens to escape prosecution of crimes in the United States.
 The vote appears to be a resolution of sorts to the curious legal limbo that Mr. Fischer fell into in 1992 when, the United States says, he violated sanctions against Yugoslavia by accepting a $3.3 million fee to play an exhibition match there. 
 After that, the always reclusive, progressively more difficult Mr. Fischer dropped out of sight, living in Budapest -- and possibly the Philippines and Switzerland -- and emerging now and then on radio stations in Iceland, Hungary and the Philippines to rant in increasingly belligerent terms against the United States and against Jews. 
 This latest episode began in July 2004, when he tried to board a plane from Japan to Manila and was seized by the Japanese authorities and accused of trying to leave the country on an invalid passport. He has been held in prison since then while the various governments, as well as a staunch group of supporters in the chess world, have tried to find some resolution to what has been a vexing and delicate jurisdictional issue. 
 But while the United States -- which is also investigating the possibility of charging him with tax evasion -- regards Mr. Fischer as a fugitive from justice, in Iceland he is seen as a national hero. It was in Reykjavik in 1972 that he defeated the Russian world champion, Boris Spassky, in an electrifying cold war chess contest that pitted East against West.
 As much as the African-American track star Jesse Owens's defeat of Hitler's Aryan athletes did at the 1936 Berlin Olympics, Mr. Fischer's victory in Iceland seemed to symbolize nothing less than the triumph of one way of life over another -- in this case, democracy over Communism. 
 It is partly for that reason, said Bjarni Benediktsson, chairman of the parliamentary committee that recommended last week that Mr. Fischer be granted citizenship, that Parliament voted in favor of his request on Monday. Iceland had already agreed to issue a resident's permit and special passport to Mr. Fischer, but that had not proved enough for the Japanese authorities. 
 His supporters said they had received assurances from Japan that with Icelandic citizenship and a passport, he would be free to leave. ''It was very clear from the outset that he had a great influence here,'' Mr. Benediktsson said, speaking by telephone from Reykjavik. ''A new generation of international chess players was born here in Iceland after the world championship match in Reykjavik, and it was very clear from the outset of this matter that the authorities in Iceland have very warm feelings toward this memory.''
 He emphasized that the granting of citizenship was considered only as a last resort, ''after the applicant had exhausted all other possibilities'' of gaining freedom. He also said Mr. Fischer's ''personal opinions on social issues'' had not been a factor. 
 An official at the Immigration Bureau of the Justice Ministry said nothing had been decided yet about whether or how Mr. Fischer might be released. But the official said it is legally possible that he could be sent to Iceland as a destination of repatriation under the deportation order, if he is granted citizenship there. 
 The Committee to Free Bobby Fischer, meanwhile, praised the Icelandic Parliament, saying in statement issued in Tokyo that it had ''made history by standing up to the earth's sole superpower.'' 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Einarsson played down the significance of Mr. Fischer's reputation for misanthropy and his habit of making incendiary public remarks. ''Everyone knows his views, and he doesn't need to repeat them again,'' he said. ''He's like Rembrandt or Mozart -- one of these very big people -- so his personality is beside the point.'' 
 He said Mr. Fischer was likely to make Iceland his home, at least for the time being. ''I think he will stay in Iceland a lot, at least for the coming months, and then he will travel feely around the world -- although I don't expect he will be going to America.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (92%); BOARD GAMES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); DEPORTATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ATHLETES (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); TAX FRAUD (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%) Chess; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Chess

PERSON: Sarah Lyall; Bobby Fischer; Boris Spassky

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (93%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ICELAND (97%); JAPAN (95%); PHILIPPINES (92%); HUNGARY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iceland ; Reykjavik (Iceland); Japan; Yugoslavia

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



452 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: State Court Is Debating The Future Of Casinos

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 21 

 BODY:
The future of casinos and video lotteries in New York was fiercely debated at the state's highest court on Monday, with some judges expressing concern that Indian-run casinos could someday lead to roulette wheels, poker tables and craps in populous cities like Manhattan and Buffalo.
 During two hours of legal arguments in Albany, the state's Court of Appeals weighed the constitutionality of permitting casinos on Indian tribal lands and so-called video lottery terminals at racetracks in New York. Both types of gambling exist, including four tribal casinos. Under a 2001 state law, three more are under consideration for the Catskills and one for western New York. Their fate is at stake before the high court. 
 Gambling opponents have sued to scuttle the 2001 law as a violation of the New York Constitution, which bans most gambling beyond some explicit exceptions like the state-run lottery, church bingo and charity-benefit casino nights.
 Several members of the seven-judge court appeared to envision a continuing, legally permissible place for tribal casinos in New York, if their questions and comments to lawyers for both sides were any measure. 
 They cited the federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, which allows states to negotiate casino deals with tribes if ''the state permits any person to conduct these particular gaming activities for any purpose'' already. The current exceptions in New York seem to allow that opening, the judges said.
 ''The people have already chosen, and by allowing gambling to some degree, no longer can we exclude it,'' said Judge Albert M. Rosenblatt, describing what he called a ''very compelling'' argument for the casinos. ''Had New York said there shall be no gambling, and really meant it, no gambling period, then there's no power in the world that can compel New York to go to the table.''
 Judith S. Kaye, New York's chief judge and head of the court, added, ''I share Judge Rosenblatt's concern.''
 Yet several on the bench also expressed concern that New York would be ''in for a penny, in for a pound,'' in the words of Judge Rosenblatt, if Indian-run casinos were allowed to proliferate. If New York politicians become addicted to any new revenue and economic lift that casinos may generate, gambling may eventually be encouraged or even foisted ''on every street corner'' of the state, Judge Rosenblatt said.
 ''Would it be theoretically possible to have three casinos in every county?'' he asked the state's solicitor general, Caitlin J. Halligan, offering a premise in which state and federal officials allowed nontribal land to be used for a casino. He referred to this notion as ''the prospect that looms maybe over all of us'' in the case.
 ''The question that you are presenting is absolutely a hypothetical,'' emphasized Ms. Halligan, who was defending the 2001 law. Then she said: ''Anything is possible depending on the facts, but that's a big if. As a legal matter, yes.''
 Lawyers for the gambling opponents, who include two state legislators and the president of the Saratoga County Chamber of Commerce, argued that the only permissible way to permit Indian casinos was to amend Article One of the State Constitution to create an exception for them. Doing so would be a far longer and politically arduous process than enacting the 2001 law required.
 Cornelius D. Murray, one of the lawyers for the opponents, argued that state officials were willing to violate the Constitution to generate new revenue from the deals creating Indian casinos and video lottery terminals. The 2001 law, referred to as Chapter 383 in Albany, was passed weeks after the Sept. 11 attack as a tool for economic development.
 ''The State of New York doesn't allow commercialized gambling,'' Mr. Murray said. ''We do allow very limited charitable gaming on a small basis for fire squadrons and not-for-profits. They're trying to take that loophole and now say, O.K., that allows tribes.''
 Lawyers for both sides also tussled over video lottery terminals at racetracks, and several judges struggled with whether these games were like a lottery, as state officials maintain, or amount to slot machines, which they somewhat resemble.
 A lower court ruling last summer upheld the gambling expansion as permissible under the federal Indian gaming act, but it struck down a formula that funneled some revenue from the video terminals into a breeding fund and larger purses at races. Proceeds from lottery games are intended to be used for education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); JUDGES (89%); POKER (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



453 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Road UpkeepWill Take $9 Billion Outlay

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
New York State should spend at least $9 billion over the next five years to prevent the deterioration of highways and bridges and reduce traffic congestion in the five boroughs and the surrounding suburbs, according to a New York University study to be released today.
 The study echoes the recommendations made in December by an official advisory panel convened by the state transportation commissioner, Joseph H. Boardman, but it is not clear whether either report will have much effect on budget negotiations in Albany.
 The new study focused on infrastructure conditions and traffic levels in New York City, on Long Island and in seven counties to the north: Columbia, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland, Ulster and Westchester. It was prepared by the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management, part of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at N.Y.U., and was financed by the General Contractors Association of New York, an industry group that usually advocates more spending on highways and bridges. 
 In January, Gov. George E. Pataki proposed spending $15.4 billion on projects by the state's Department of Transportation over the next five years, with an additional $2 billion in 2008 and 2009 to come from sources that have not yet been identified. The 14-county downstate region would get $6 billion of the total.
 The study concluded that $7.3 billion was needed to maintain existing bridge and road conditions, although congestion would worsen because little money would be available for projects to aid mobility. To prevent deterioration and keep congestion from worsening would require $9 billion, and to improve the infrastructure and reduce congestion to its 1996 level would take $13.7 billion, according to the study's author, Bruce Schaller, a transportation consultant who worked for the city government from 1982 to 1994 before joining the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, where he worked until 1998. 
 A spokesman for the state's budget division, Michael E. Marr, said the report seemed to be based on earlier spending patterns and did ''not reflect the maintenance-first approach we have taken in this budget.''
 New York City's bridges and roads improved in the mid-1990's but have leveled off in recent years, Mr. Schaller found. On Long Island, the condition of bridges has held steady, but in the Hudson Valley counties, it began worsening in 2000, he said.
 Without proper maintenance, bridges can deteriorate precipitously, Mr. Schaller wrote, citing as an example the deadly collapse of the bridge on the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway over the Schoharie Creek in April 1987. In addition, he said, single-layer asphalt and concrete coatings have been increasingly used for highway repair, saving money in the short term but requiring more frequent repaving.
 The study also cited two other studies completed last year. The Texas Transportation Institute, which prepares an annual report on mobility nationwide, found that the New York region was sixth in the nation in the amount of traffic delay experienced during an average car trip, after Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Washington and Boston.
 The New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, a government-sponsored planning agency, concluded that the region has some of the highest freight-shipment costs in the country, with trucking costs double the national average because of congestion. Mr. Schaller wrote that the ''congestion problem cannot be 'solved' the way the infrastructure problem can be solved,'' and that it is hurting economic growth.
 ''In some ways New York has benefited from other regions' congestion getting worse because of its extensive transit system and the alternatives to using a car,'' he said in an interview. ''However, I don't think that the highway and road systems in the New York area are a net plus in terms of attracting businesses.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); WRITERS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



454 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over Islets Frays Ties Between Tokyo and Seoul

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, March 21 

 BODY:
In what had been billed as the South Korea-Japan friendship year, in recognition of 40 years of normalized relations, Japanese claims over two disputed remote islets have recently worsened relations between America's two most important Asian allies.
 The claims over the islets, called Tokdo in South Korea and Takeshima in Japan, were regarded here as an attempt to justify Japanese colonial rule and have drawn huge protests in front of the Japanese Embassy in recent days. A mother and son each cut off a finger; a man whose father had been brutally forced to serve in the Japanese Imperial Army, Heo Kyung Wook, 54, set himself on fire.
 ''My father passed away 20 years ago, but he used to tell us stories about how the Japanese treated him, and my anger built up over the years,'' Mr. Heo said Monday, recuperating at a hospital here from burns to his lower body and neck. ''When I saw the news about Tokdo on television, I couldn't contain my anger.'' 
 Raw anger at Japan's militaristic past remains just below the surface here, as it does in other parts of Asia invaded by Japan, even as Japan itself grows less open to addressing its problematic history. In a region where the balance of power is shifting because of the rise of China and its perceived threat to American influence, the fracas over the islets shows the combustible addition of nationalism in Japan and on the Korean peninsula.
 The current dispute was touched off last month when Japan's ambassador to South Korea said at a news conference, here in the heart of the capital, that the islets historically and legally belonged to Japan. Then last week, Japan's Shimane Prefecture declared Feb. 22 as Takeshima Day, marking the date when the islets were incorporated into the prefecture in 1905 -- the same year Japan effectively began ruling the Korean peninsula. After Japan's defeat in World War II, the islets fell under the effective control of Seoul.
 When Shimane's assembly passed the Takeshima Day bill, Seoul protested. But Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, said only, ''We should deal with the situation in a forward-looking manner by considering how to develop friendship and overcome emotional conflicts.''
 Enraged by Mr. Koizumi's response, the South Korean government released a statement the following day, saying, ''A series of actions taken by Japan of late has caused us to raise a fundamental question as to whether Japan has the will to coexist with its neighbor as a peaceful power in Northeast Asia.''
 The good will built between the countries, especially since they were co-hosts of the World Cup in 2002, seemed to vanish.
 For older South Koreans, like Mr. Heo, the bitterness of the past resurfaced.
 His father had told him of working in a stable where he watched Japanese soldiers eat.
 ''The Japanese would say Koreans work hard only if they are hungry,'' Mr. Heo recalled his father saying. ''So when they finished eating, they would overturn the table, and my father would have to pick up the scraps.''
 For young South Koreans, who had grown up consuming Japanese anime and music, the dispute suddenly changed their view of Japan. At the J-Pop section in the Kyobo Bookstore here today, Lee You Mi, 18, a college student, was looking at a CD by a Japanese singer, Mika Nakashima.
 ''My image of Japan as an open country has changed to that of a closed country with remnants of imperialism,'' Ms. Lee said.
 The dispute comes as Japan, urged on by the United States, has been building up its military and taking a hard line against China and North Korea. A nationalism not previously seen in postwar Japan has emerged, with Mr. Koizumi unapologetically praying at Yasukuni Shrine, where 14 Class A war criminals are enshrined, and with teachers in Tokyo being punished for not forcing their students to stand and sing the national anthem during graduation ceremonies. It was also disclosed recently that senior members of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party pressed the public broadcaster, NHK, to soften a 2001 documentary on Japan's wartime sex slaves.
 In South Korea, generational change and a maturing democracy have brought to power an entirely different set of leaders in recent years. Eager to engage the North, the new leaders' nationalism extends peninsulawide.
 One of the most potent elements of this nationalism is the South and North's shared victimization at the hands of Japan. Two of the most popular television dramas in South Korea now deal with a pre-divided peninsula under Japanese threat: ''The Invincible Admiral Yi Sun Shin,'' about the Japanese invasion of Korea in the 16th century, and ''The Earth,'' about the Japanese colonial period.
 ''Japan should understand that its actions regarding Tokdo have regional repercussions,'' said Park Cheol Hee, a specialist on Japanese politics and diplomacy at Seoul National University, in an interview on Monday. ''If South Korean-Japan relations become twisted, the result will be that South Korea and North Korea will become united against Japan. And as China and Korea share the same historical perspective toward Japan, the unintended consequence will bring China and the Korean peninsula against Japan.''
 Japan has thought of itself as apart from Asia since the Meiji Restoration revived imperial rule in the mid-19th century. Today, Japan is responding to changes in East Asia by cementing its ties with the United States and standing against China, leading some critics in Japan to say that it will become increasingly isolated in Asia.
 ''I strongly urge the Japanese foreign office and Japanese government to take a much more independent and much more positive policy toward Asia,'' Makoto Taniguchi, a former Japanese ambassador to the United Nations who now teaches at universities in Japan and China, told reporters in Tokyo last week. ''Otherwise, there is no future for Japan. Japan will be totally neglected in Asia, and, in the future, if Japan's position and economic power go down, what is its use to the U.S.?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Heo Kyung Wook set himself on fire last week at a protest at the Japanese Embassy in Seoul. He is now recovering in a hospital. Tokyo's plan to designate a day promoting its claim on two islets, left, has sent anti-Japanese feeling in South Korea soaring, despite years of cordial relations. The islets are regarded as a symbol of Japanese imperial rule. (Photo by Chun Soo Young/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Reuters)Map of South Korea highlighting Disputed Islets: The islets called Tokdo in South Korea, and Takeshima in Japan, are claimed by both countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); BURN INJURIES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); FIRES (69%); RIOTS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots; Foreign Service

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) CHUGOKU, JAPAN (78%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%) South Korea; Japan; North Korea; Seoul (South Korea); South Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



455 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

GAS MONEY -- For weeks, airlines have been essentially asking passengers to chip in for gas by raising fares about $10 each way. Staggered by sharply rising fuel costs, the major airlines have managed to raise fares twice in the last month. And they are trying again. But it was not clear last night whether the latest attempt to add $10 to fares, begun last week by Continental Airlines and matched over the weekend by its competitors, was going to collapse. After Delta Air Lines retreated yesterday morning from the latest fare increase, Continental also abandoned it, according to The Associated Press. Competitors were assessing their positions last night. Still, with oil prices expected to remain at record levels, industry experts predict that fares will keep rising. ''Some leisure fares are now $50 more round-trip than they were Feb. 1,'' said Terry Trippler, an online air-fare analyst. ''I don't think this is the end of it. I think we're going to see more fare increases.''

FAST-GROWTH AIRPORTS -- The five airports where traffic will grow the most by 2010, and the reasons, according to the Boyd Group's latest forecast, are Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla. (34 percent growth, largely because of the entry of AirTran); Boston (32.7 percent, JetBlue expansion); Fort Myers, Fla. (27.6 percent, strong regional population growth); Phoenix (24 percent, strong regional population growth, assuming adequate water supply continues); and Atlanta (24 percent, increased competition with Delta Air Lines by other carriers moving in).

PAMPERING MORE FLIERS -- Bucking a trend, American Airlines is increasing the number of first-class seats in its fleet of MD-80 planes. All will have 16 seats in first class -- 4 more than previously -- by early June. When the modifications are completed, 78 percent of American's narrow-body planes will have at least 16 first-class seats. The airline's narrow-body Boeing 757's already have 22 seats in first. American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, cited the demand for upgrades by its elite-status frequent fliers as the main reason for the changes. ''While other airlines are shrinking first class, we are listening to our customers who say upgrades are important to them, and we're responding accordingly,'' David Cush, American's vice president for sales, said in a statement.

NEW NONSTOP TO THAILAND -- Thai Airways says it will begin nonstop service, daily except Mondays, between New York and Bangkok on May 1. Thai will use new A340-500 aircraft with 60 sleeper seats in its Royal Orchard business class, 42 seats in premium economy and 113 in economy. Flight time is 17 hours.

ADD ONE TO STAR ALLIANCE TAP -- Air Portugal has joined the Star Alliance. That means Lisbon is now one of 10 ''strategically placed connecting airports'' offering smooth hub-to-hub air transportation among alliance members in Europe, TAP said. The Star Alliance has 16 airline partners, including United Airlines, US Airways, ANA, Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines. JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: A JetBlue plane is refueled at Oakland International Airport in California. Airlines have been raising fares as a result of the rapidly increasing price of fuel, but the latest round is in question. (Photo by Noah Berger/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AMR CORP (83%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); BOEING CO (53%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (74%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (55%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



456 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L. Labor Talks in First Quarter

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

DATELINE: KAPALUA, Hawaii, March 21 

 BODY:
National Football League owners have traveled a long way to make a little progress on a new collective bargaining agreement.
 Commissioner Paul Tagliabue addressed the news media Monday at the annual owners meeting, and he indicated that the league's next labor agreement would not be reached easily. The current agreement does not expire until 2008, but if there is no extension reached by 2007, there will be no salary cap that season, an outcome the league wants to avoid.
 One of the key issues is how to divide revenue between the owners and the players in a climate in which more owners are spending big sums to build stadiums. The owners were still trying to agree on the best way to be equitable in handling some of their financial issues before submitting a proposal to the players. Owners of high-revenue teams with new stadiums have disagreed with owners of lower-revenue teams regarding how much each franchise should contribute to money that will be allocated to players. 
 ''We have a complicated set of new economic issues, and we're trying to figure out how to resolve them,'' Tagliabue said. ''Since we first did this collective bargaining agreement, the teams and the league have had to spend dramatically more sums of money to get stadiums built. The cost of paying for those stadiums represents 3 or 4 percent of total revenues. We have to figure out with the players association how to address that in the collective bargaining agreement.''
 No new talks between the owners and the players union have been scheduled, but it seemed far too early to say that the N.F.L. was in danger of reaching the situation faced by the N.H.L., which canceled its season because of a labor dispute.
 ''I'm not going to answer any questions that compare the N.F.L. to hockey as far as labor relations,'' Tagliabue said.
 Several owners said Monday that the talk of a pending labor dispute was more than rhetoric.
 ''We're trying to get the players association to understand that revenue growth benefits the players, new stadiums benefit the players, but in order to get people to go out and build new stadiums, you can't give all the benefits to the players and to the clubs that built the stadium, and have the other 31 clubs subsidize the whole operation,'' said Bob McNair, owner of the Houston Texans. ''That's what tends to happen the way it's structured now. We need to get everyone to understand that, and we need to balance those benefits out.''
 In other issues, the owners' vote on the site for the 2010 Super Bowl was pushed back to Wednesday from Tuesday. The owners are expected to vote in favor of awarding the 2010 game to the Jets' proposed $1.7 billion stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan, provided the stadium is ready by the 2009 season.
 On Monday, several Jets team officials were in New York, where they bid $720 million for the stadium site, and those officials were not expected in Hawaii until Tuesday. Asked on Monday if he thought the Jets would be successful in their bid for the stadium property, Tagliabue said: ''I have no idea. I know they are very serious about their plans.''
 League officials said that the decision to delay the 2010 Super Bowl vote until Wednesday was simply a matter of giving everyone involved a chance to arrive in Hawaii and to prepare.
 ''It just seemed more convenient for everybody to do it Wednesday,'' said Joe Browne, the league's executive vice president of communications. ''Don't read anything more into it.''
 In other matters, Tagliabue announced four games that would be played during Week 1 of the 2005 schedule. The regular season will begin Thursday, Sept. 8, with New England at home against Oakland. On Sunday, Sept. 11, San Diego will play host to Cowboys, and that evening, Baltimore will play at home against Indianapolis. On Monday, Sept. 12, Atlanta will be host to Philadelphia. The entire 2005 schedule will be announced at a later date.

EXTRA POINTS
 The N.F.L. will play its first regular-season game outside the United States on Oct. 2, when the San Francisco 49ers play the Arizona Cardinals in Mexico City. It will be a Cardinals home game. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ICE HOCKEY (75%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



457 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Simple Praise for Cost-Efficient Luxury

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's been four years now. Most of you have been very good soldiers, booking the cheapest connecting flight even when it meant the trip took you five hours longer than a slightly more expensive nonstop, and going downscale on hotels, even when it meant serious inconvenience.
 Now business travel has rebounded almost to the level of 2000, its peak. Here and there, the screws on spending are being loosened -- though not without a battle, as corporate travel departments remain under tight pressure to keep costs down. 
 The good news for business travelers is that the budget overlords are less successful these days at squeezing them into the middle seat on FlyByNite Airways and dumping them into a room at El Cheapo Gardens. Here and there are indications that comfort and convenience are again being factored in, along with cost.
 ''Corporate travel policy is not as strict as it was -- and maybe more important, the enforcement of corporate travel policy isn't as strict as it was,'' said Bjorn Hanson, who heads hospitality industry research at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 One indication can be seen in the domestic luxury hotel category -- hotels in the so-called upscale, upper-upscale and deluxe niches. Weekday occupancy (read business travel) in that segment, which includes brands in the four-star and five-star categories, increased about 13 percent last year over 2003, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
 But the price hasn't gone up much. 
 In 2000, the average rate for a domestic luxury hotel room was $239.68, Mr. Hanson said. This year, it is expected to be $245.95. In 2000, which Mr. Hanson calls ''the last great year till things went the way they did,'' the occupancy rate for domestic luxury hotels was 72.4 percent. This year, he estimated, the occupancy rate for those hotels is going to be about 69.8 percent. This means that the top hotels can't be ''as bold with rate increases as they might like to be,'' he said.
 At the same time, he said, there is ''definitely a growth in supply'' in luxury hotel rooms in the United States. In 2000, Mr. Hanson said, there were 61,100 such rooms. At the end of 2004, there were 75,900.
 The fact that rates for the top hotels have barely tracked inflation in recent years means that your corporate travel department might well be receptive to the argument that moving up to a better hotel, where you can work more efficiently and come home better rested, makes sense both economically and as a matter of productivity. 
 Back in the summer of 2000, when the hatches were first battened on travel spending, a parody of a corporate travel department memo was widely circulated on the Internet. It said, in part: ''All employees are encouraged to stay with relatives and friends while on company business. If that is not possible, the cost-effective alternative should be exploited. Public areas such as parks and parking lots will be used during periods of good weather.''
 As to getting there, ''Hitchhiking is strictly encouraged,'' the parody said.
 But things are obviously changing, even in the air. The anecdotal evidence is abundant. Just look at the current fare sales for premium-class air travel in the spring and into the fall. At the bottom of the scale, airlines are falling over one another to tack on incremental $10 fare increases to cover soaring fuel costs. But at the top -- especially in international travel -- fierce competition for premium business-class market share has ignited fare sales across the board. In some cases, business-class travel across the Atlantic and Pacific is now effectively half the price that it was a year ago.
 ''When 2005 is over, the business traveler flying premium class is going to find that he or she paid less than in 2004, but the leisure traveler is going to find they paid more,'' said Terry Trippler, an air fare analyst.
 By the way, not all companies imposed draconian cuts on business travel in 2000. Some companies maintain -- as I do -- that an employee leaving kith and kin to roam on business deserves a modicum of comfort and convenience. 
 One prime example is S.C. Johnson, the privately held Racine, Wis., marketer of household products, which has 12,000 employees worldwide. At S.C. Johnson, about 30 percent to 40 percent of the employees travel on business, said Kelly Semrau, the vice president for global public affairs.
 S.C. Johnson is known in the travel industry as a tough negotiator during corporate travel-purchasing negotiations. But the travel policy is deliberately not hard-nosed when applied to employees.
 ''The philosophy is that we want employees to feel as comfortable traveling as they possibly can,'' said Ms. Semrau, who describes herself as a ''huge international traveler.''
 For air travel, rates are negotiated with preferred airlines, and employees who go outside the box are expected to have a good reason. But business class travel is allowed for any trip over four and a half hours, and that policy didn't change when things got tough. Neither did the policy allowing stays at four-star hotels, when appropriate.
 Productivity is one reason. Ms. Semrau said that when she flew in business class it made ''a remarkable difference; I have more incentive to get my laptop out and work.''
 But attention to the toll of travel on employees is another. ''Business travel can be grueling,'' she said. ''It doesn't matter if you're in Shanghai or Cheyenne, Wyo. Business travel is a grind -- and anything that a company can do to help you with that, in my mind, makes me appreciate the company more.''

On the Road appears each Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LODGING (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRLINES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



458 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Pride and Death in U.S. Service

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: DEGOLLADO, Mexico 

 BODY:
The shrine set up on a broken television in the corner would be familiar to many American military families. The somber Stars and Stripes is folded neatly in a triangle, encased in wood and glass. A couple of medals lie in boxes, inert as rocks, collecting dust. 
 A stern young man in his dress United States Army uniform peers at visitors from a small photograph. His dog tags hang beside the photo. A photo of the same young man with his even younger wife, caught in a swirl of laughter, is nearby. These are the relics of a life cut short, in the name of honor, liberty and country. The question is whose?
 What seems odd is that the mementos are not in a living room in upstate New York or rural Virginia, but in an impoverished house with concrete floors in a dusty town deep in the hills of central Mexico. The soldier, Pfc. Jesus Fonseca, 19, was not an American citizen, but one of at least 22 Mexican citizens who have died fighting for the United States in two years of war. 
 As of January, about 41,000 permanent resident aliens were in the United States armed forces -- 3,639 of them from Mexico. The Mexicans are the largest group among the 63 immigrants who have been killed in action in Iraq, the Pentagon says. 
 It is a fact that points to Mexico's ambivalent yet deeply intertwined relationship with the United States, the country Mexico fought its last war against, and lost. That defeat, in 1848, is not forgotten here. 
 Yet so many Mexicans have migrated to the United States seeking jobs in recent years that they and their children are willing to fight and die for it, even if they are frequently motivated more by economic necessity than patriotism.
 For many, armed service is seen as a fast track to citizenship. During wartime, foreigners with residency permits need only to serve honorably for their citizenship to be all but guaranteed, immigration officials said. Of course, they must survive as well.
 Indeed, in a cruel twist, soldiers like Private Fonseca, who in the horrible minutes of Jan. 17 took a sniper's bullet in the stomach while patrolling in Ramadi, are accorded citizenship only after death. 
 ''He lost his life for another flag,'' said his cousin Noe Beltran, echoing the views of many in this town. ''Personally, I think it should have been for Mexico.''
 Like Private Fonseca, most Mexicans in the armed forces straddle two worlds. Some join the Army or the Marines for the usual reasons: poverty, a desire for adventure, love for their adopted country, the prospect of a subsidized education and, of course, the adolescent urge to prove themselves as something more than pimply youths.
 Fernando Suarez del Solar, a United States citizen who began a family in Mexico with a Tijuana woman, said a Marine Corps recruiter started working on his son, Jesus, when the boy was only 14 and still living in Tijuana. 
 Jesus Suarez del Solar, who was eligible for a residency permit but not citizenship, wanted to be a Tijuana police officer and fight drug traffickers. A recruiter convinced him that after a stint in the Marines he could easily be hired by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, his father said. 
 The family moved to Lomita, Calif., and after four years of high school, during which he received weekly calls from the recruiter, Jesus signed up. Part of his motivation was to become a United States citizen, his father said. 
 ''When he got out of boot camp, he called me and said, 'Papa, now I'm a marine, but I made a mistake,''' Fernando Suarez del Solar said. ''I don't want any of my cousins to go into the Army. There is a lot of discrimination here.''
 Jesus, a lance corporal, 20, was killed by fragments from an American cluster bomb on March 27, 2003, near Nasiriya, in the initial offensive to occupy Iraq. He left a wife and infant son in Escondido, Calif. 
 ''The recruitment system really goes after the Hispanic community,'' Mr. Suarez del Solar said. ''A lot of Hispanics are born in Mexico but live in the United States and don't have citizenship. They see a good option in the Army to get papers, to get citizenship more quickly, and one thing the recruiters say often is that military service will make it easier for them to become accepted in society.''
 For others citizenship is less important than economic opportunity. 
 Sergio Diaz Sr. said his son Sergio Jr. had few prospects when he graduated from Narbonne High School in Lomita. He was a lanky young man who played basketball well and liked to tinker with his family's old Mustang. 
 The father, a legal immigrant, made a meager living doing odd jobs and fixing cars. They lived in a trailer park. ''There weren't many other options, so he enlisted,'' Sergio Diaz Sr. said.
 The boy told relatives that someday he hoped to have a well-paid job in the States, as a full-fledged citizen. Then, he said, he wanted to buy his mother her own house in Mexico, so she would no longer have to live on her sister's charity.
 That dream ended last Thanksgiving, when a roadside bomb exploded near Ramadi and the shrapnel ripped through Specialist Sergio Diaz Varela's 21-year-old body. 
 He was buried in the cemetery in Tlaquepaque, a suburb of Guadalajara, on Dec. 12. His mother, Maria Guadalupe Varela, did not want the American flag draped over the coffin, but relented under pressure from family members. She blames United States Army recruiters for her son's death, Mr. Diaz Sr. said.
 Two hundred people turned out to bury the young soldier, including the local mayor and the American consul. He was eulogized as a hero, though some at the burial struggled to connect his sacrifice to Mexico, where many people oppose the Iraq war or are indifferent to it. 
 ''He is considered a hero because he died for peace and liberty, which are values that in some way we share with the United States,'' said Juan Ramon Cruz Mejia, the manager of the cemetery, who knows the family. ''Many people from here migrate over there, and they must have some sympathy for the United States to offer their lives. These things are also important for us, especially liberty and democracy.''
 Private Fonseca, too, had deep roots in Mexico. He returned every summer, like a migratory bird. 
 The lure of citizenship was not important, his parents said. His father said his son had earned good marks in high school and could easily have gone to college but had chosen a military career instead. His goal was to become an intelligence officer, family members said. 
 ''Citizenship was not important to him,'' the father said. ''I'm proud of my son, because even though he did not accomplish everything he wanted, it was still one of his dreams to belong to the Army.''
 Having gone to the United States as a toddler, Jesus Fonseca also felt as much a part of the community in Marietta, Ga., where his family had settled, as he did part of Degollado, his parents said. 
 But it was here that he met his wife, Marlene Zaragoza, 18, on the last of his long summer sojourns home. Theirs was a whirlwind romance that began when he saw her on the village soccer field. 
 To everyone's surprise, he appeared again in November 2003, fresh from basic training, and asked for her hand. They were wed in December, just before he was shipping off to his first posting in Korea. They talked of settling in Colorado after the war, once his citizenship papers were in hand.
 ''He was an easy person to love,'' she said. ''So open. He treated everything just as it was, without hypocrisy.'' 
 Private Fonseca's grandmother, Amada Ayala Garcia, fought back tears when she was asked whether she supported the war that had taken her grandson's life. ''I don't know about politics,'' she said. ''I can only say that it's a sad thing to see so many dead.''
 When they buried Private Fonseca on Feb. 2, an officer from the United States Army gingerly handed the flag that had covered his coffin to his teenage wife. Then a group of mariachis, including his father-in-law, belted out the classic ''Mexico Lindo y Querido'' as they lowered the casket. 
 ''Beloved and beautiful Mexico, if I die far from you, just say that I'm sleeping and bring me back to you,'' they sang.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Private Fonseca's wife, Marlene Zaragoza, at home in Mexico. He lived most of his life in Georgia but is buried in his hometown.
Relatives of Pfc. Jesus Fonseca, from left: brother Ricardo
grandmother Amada Ayala Garcia
 an aunt. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); MILITARY RECRUITING (73%); REFUGEES (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



459 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Fears Weigh on Market as Investors Watch Fed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Inflation fears sent stocks lower yesterday as investors nervously awaited the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of pricing pressures and interest rates. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to raise interest rates today. 
 High oil prices, which briefly topped $57 a barrel before retreating, also weighed on the market.
 With oil at near-record levels, investors are concerned that the economy is caught between surging energy prices, which could trickle down through the rest of the economy, and higher interest rates that could make capital harder to come by for businesses seeking to expand. 
 Oil prices fell somewhat after an early spike as OPEC mulled another production increase in an attempt to meet rising demand. Crude, however, remained well above $56 a barrel and appeared unlikely to drop in the short term. A barrel of light crude settled at $56.62, down 10 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 ''The inflation fears are out there, and they're at an elevated level today,'' said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan Beck & Company. ''There's a lot of fear out there over higher interest rates, and that oil bubble hasn't popped yet.''
 About stocks, he said: ''The buyers just aren't coming out to play. They're hiding.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 64.28 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,565.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 5.87 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,183.78, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 0.28 point, or 0.01 percent, ending at 2,007.51.
 Time Warner fell 28 cents, to $18.42, after the company said it would pay $300 million in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The S.E.C. accused Time Warner of making misleading statements about the advertising revenue and subscriber base in its America Online division. The company will also restate three years of financial results.
 Two long-suffering sectors, technology and pharmaceuticals, were in the spotlight because of mergers, helping to keep the Nasdaq's losses minimal. 
 IAC/InterActiveCorp announced it would buy the search engine Ask Jeeves for $1.85 billion in stock. Ask Jeeves rose $4.43, to $28.67, while IAC fell 66 cents, to $21.63.
 Inamed, a maker of cosmetic breast implants, added $1.97, to $68.21, as Medicis Pharmaceutical made a $2.8 billion cash-and-stock offer. Medicis, known for its skin care treatments, slid $2.57, to $29.11.
 The financial data and software company SunGard Data Systems said it was in talks to be acquired by private investors for as much as $10 billion, though it would not say anything about the prospective buyers. SunGard soared $6.12, to $31.07.
 Schering tumbled $11.75, to $66, and Novartis lost 92 cents, to $47.40, as patients in a clinical trial of the companies' jointly developed colon cancer drug failed to show any statistical improvement. Their rival Genentech, which markets a colon cancer drug, surged $5.49, to $58.
 General Motors could cut its nonunion work force of 38,000, according to The Wall Street Journal. Last week, G.M., a Dow industrials component, announced severe reductions in its earnings forecasts for the quarter and full year. G.M. was up $1.07, to $29.69.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, to a price of 95 27/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.52 percent from 4.51 percent on Friday. Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.292	98.465	High Rate	2.800	3.035	Investment Rate	2.859	3.125	Low Rate	2.750	3.000	Median Rate	2.775	3.030	Total applied for	$42,947,734	$46,098,292	Accepted	$26,952,664	$24,267,532	Noncompetitive	$1,642,091	$1,298,851	

Both issues are dated March 24, 2005. The three-month bills mature on June 23, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 22, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from December through March. (March: 2.800%)(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (81%); AOL INC (53%); NOVARTIS AG (52%); MEDICIS PHARMACEUTICAL CORP (51%); SUNGARD DATA SYSTEMS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (81%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (81%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



460 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The Return of Latin America's Left

BYLINE: By Alvaro Vargas Llosa. 
Alvaro Vargas Llosa is a senior fellow at the Independent Institute and the author of ''Liberty for Latin America.''

DATELINE: Oakland, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE left is in power in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic and Venezuela. With this month's inauguration of Tabare Vazquez as president of Uruguay, this trend will likely continue. The year 2006 could bring a similar leftward shift in Mexico and Peru, while in Bolivia the Socialist opposition has been setting much of the political agenda since the fall of President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada in 2003. Although this movement is hardly homogeneous (there are major differences between Venezuela's Hugo Chavez, Chile's Ricardo Lagos and Brazil's Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva), the continental pattern is clear.
 Behind this tilt is popular frustration with the failures of the 1990's, a decade of reform under governments of the right that were supposed to catapult the region toward development. Despite the success of many of these governments in curbing inflation, that development failed to happen. Instead of decentralization and the creation of a free, competitive economy and strong legal institutions open to all, crony capitalism and authoritarianism grew. 
 Countries replaced inflation with new taxes on the poor, high tariffs with regional trading blocs, and, especially, state monopolies with government-sanctioned private monopolies. The courts were subjected to the whims of those in power, widening the divide between official institutions and ordinary people -- one reason recent surveys in Latin America have pointed to such widespread disillusionment with democracy.
 This frustration opened the doors of power to the left. With some exceptions like Venezuela, this new left is trying to avoid the worst mistakes of the old, especially 1980's-style hyperinflation and open war against foreign investors. Some of the results are impressive: investment is picking up in Brazil, economic growth reached 8 percent in Argentina last year, and a Socialist president in Chile has overseen a big decrease in poverty (only 18 percent of the population, according to the Inter-American Development Bank, is below the poverty line in that country). Politically, despite a few authoritarian spasms in places like Argentina, the new governments are playing by democratic rules. 
 It would be a mistake, however, to think that all these governments need to do is stay the course. Unless Latin America's leftist governments are willing to deepen reform, the continent is unlikely to break free of its recurring cycle of economic stagnation and political disillusionment. The good news, however, is that left-of-center governments in other parts of the world have put such reforms into place and lived to tell the tale.
 Latin America's rebound owes a great deal to favorable international circumstances, from low interest rates in the United States to heightened demand for commodities by China and India. After experiencing little or no growth between 1998 and 2003, the region's economies have benefited from the high price of oil (Argentina, Ecuador, Mexico, Venezuela), minerals (Peru) and other commodities like soybeans (Argentina, Brazil). 
 But investment levels are still low: 15 percent to 17 percent of gross domestic product in the majority of countries, compared with roughly 25 percent in East Asia over the past two decades. With the exception of Chile, poverty is not diminishing. Last year the region had a net capital outflow of $77 billion, which is not surprising considering that foreign investment has not yet returned with force; that is in part a result of social unrest in the Andes but also of the perception that many of the structural reforms promoted in the 1990's have yet to be achieved. 
 In order to compete with economies that have undergone reform in East Asia and Europe, Latin America's left must dismantle corporatist states that hamper enterprise among those who are not close to government and, through legal privilege, mock the notion of equality before the law. 
 Many companies that were privatized in the 1990's (telephone service in Mexico and Argentina, and electricity in Peru) still have effective monopolies and are in cahoots with regulators. Getting rid of these privileges could help to persuade the poor to embrace the idea of economic freedom. Significantly reducing high sales taxes that were set in times of fiscal profligacy would lift a burden from the poorest citizens. Slashing the bureaucratic requirements that force citizens to spend up to 80 percent of their annual income if they want to set up a private company would also help to empower would-be entrepreneurs.
 Even more important, decoupling the judicial and the political spheres (for example, by reversing an expansion of Argentina's highest court that was undertaken by a former president to pack the bench) could begin a vital legal reform process in which all citizens are given real legal protection. 
 Such measures could turn current growth into sustained progress. More fundamentally, by reconciling human rights and free markets, two notions that have been sadly at odds across the continent, they could enfranchise millions. Further reform is the best way to meet the current social unrest and prepare for when the prices of Latin American commodities go down or interest rates in the United States go up -- a likely prospect if China's growth slows and deficits in the United States keep rising.
 Other left-of-center role models for reform abound, from New Zealand to Ireland, Estonia and Lithuania. Ultimately, the real challenge facing Latin America's left is to avoid the temptation of being too conservative.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jim Frazier) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POOR POPULATION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom and Human Rights; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%) Alvaro Vargas Llosa

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHILE (94%); MEXICO (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); URUGUAY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (90%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Latin America; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



461 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Value of Redemption? From 5 cents to Priceless

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
The lines on Charles Kelly's face are as deep as his voice, but they vanish once he starts singing in the choir at St. Mary's Episcopal Church in Manhattanville. He especially likes ''Pass Me Not, O Gentle Savior,'' a hymn about longing, hope and redemption.
 Mr. Kelly knows about these things, and not just the eternal reward the hymn promises. He makes his livelihood filling bags with bottles and cans of soda and beer, hauling them through the streets and redeeming them for the 5-cent deposit. It is hard work, braving the night and the cold -- and often the frosty attitudes of grocers -- to survive as an urban gleaner. Mr. Kelly and his friends know they need hardy souls. 
 ''When I'm out there I hear spirits,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''I hear my mentors. I hear the brothers saying: 'Stay steadfast. Stay strong. You're on the right track. It's going to be O.K. Persevere.''' 
 To his pastor, the Rev. Earl Kooperkamp, these thoughts suggest another kind of redemption, the one he and other Christians commemorate during Holy Week. 
 Father Kooperkamp joked that he first became aware of these connections years ago when he saw homeless men inserting cans into a bank of machines under a sign reading, ''Automatic Redemption Center.'' 
 ''I thought, 'Hey, that's my line of work!''' he said. ''Then, the more I got to investigate this, I realized there is a moral economy of redemption that is literally embedded in the Scriptures. God has created an abundance, and it is out of that abundance that we live in fellowship with one another.''
 He reached over to his Bible and read aloud a passage from Leviticus that said grapes and grains that fall to the earth were for the needy and the stranger. 
 ''Just like you cannot harvest to the edge of the field, what you drop on the ground is not yours anymore,'' Father Kooperkamp said. ''It never was yours. It's God's. And since He is the God of the poor and the alienated, you have got to leave something for them.''
 Redemption with a small ''r'' figures into that last thought, too, for him and other supporters of a revamped version of the bottle bill that is stuck in the Albany's legislative limbo. The proposed bill would make water and other noncarbonated drink containers eligible for deposits and, as an incentive, increase the handling fee offered grocers and others who operate redemption centers.
 It would also provide for the state to receive whatever money was leftover from unredeemed containers and use it for environmental programs. Laura Haight, a senior environmental associate at New York Public Interest Research Group, estimated that since the original bottle bill was enacted in 1982, the bottling companies have kept approximately $1.4 billion from unredeemed deposits. Opponents of the bill say the expansion of eligible containers would place an increased burden on grocers, for whom storage space is already at a premium. 
 Twenty years ago, no one imagined a fortune could have been made selling bottled water to New Yorkers. 
 ''I grew up in the Bronx, and we grew up thinking we had the best tap water in the world,'' said Robert Sann, the executive director of We Can, a nonprofit group that runs redemption centers in Manhattan and the Bronx. ''But it's a consumer society. And on the other side are people who are working hard to support themselves redeeming bottles.''
 Father Kooperkamp started thinking about all the unredeemed bottles and unclaimed nickels when he thought about how hard Mr. Kelly and several other members of his congregation worked to collect enough bottles to survive. He thinks including water bottles -- which litter the streets near his church -- would help the latter-day gleaners. And he still has hopes that some of the millions of dollars that go unclaimed could be used to finance health insurance for redeemers.
 Mr. Kelly sometimes wonders about his own endurance, now that he is 56 years old. He has covered a lot of ground since he started doing this 21 years ago after being laid off from his job with the Board of Education. 
 ''I asked a friend for a cigarette and he said, 'Put up two cans,''' Mr. Kelly said. ''At the time, loose cigarettes were 10 cents. Then I kept seeing more and more people collecting and redeeming bottles. Wow, I thought, this could work out.''
 He says he can earn $60 on a good day. He makes his rounds along the West Side, where he is a familiar figure to some doormen and porters who let him take away residents' recyclables. The hard part, he said, was finding stores that let him cash in his haul without ignoring him or making him wait hours. Lately, he has been going to a new mobile redemption center, We Can, established in West Harlem.
 ''It can be so iffy at the stores,'' he said. ''I always say the problem is not finding the stuff, it's getting rid of it. By the time you do get rid of it, you're all tired from walking from one end of the city to another.''
 In those walks, some people are warm and welcoming. Many others recoil or just walk on by. These moments do not escape his notice.
 ''Some people, if they can't judge you, they'll label you,'' he said. ''But if you can't take my spirit; you can't take what God gave me.''
 Redemption with a big ''R'' is what comes to Father Kooperkamp's mind when he hears that. The divine can be discerned even in the faces of the outcast and needy, he said, maybe even more so.
 ''On Good Friday, God does redemption big time,'' he said. ''The rest of the year, these guys do it small time, a nickel at a time.''
 His voice quickens at the thought. He admits he has preached on this more than a few times. 
 ''You can't help it,'' he said. ''It's out there in front of your eyes. You can't walk through the street without passing a redeemer. While we're worshiping God at the cathedral, redeemers are walking right by on the sidewalk collecting cans. That is as significant as any doctrine of atonement being preached.''
 When asked his definition of redemption, Mr. Kelly simply said, ''It's about being able to give back.''
 He was not just talking about bottles and cans. Every week, he helps at the St. Mary's soup kitchen and food pantry. On Sunday, he sings in the choir. During the week, he is trying to get word out to his friends about We Can's new center.
 ''I came here because I was hungry,'' he said at St. Mary's. ''But I also saw the need, and I have always been a person of service. If I can be a part of something that's worthwhile, count me in.''
 At last week's soup kitchen, he chatted with some visiting college students from Mississippi who were volunteering there during spring break. A steady flow of people made their way to the church basement, where the walls were decorated with drawings of Sarah Vaughan, Duke Ellington and James Brown. Shortly after 5 o'clock, four men, their faces weary from work, came in for a quick meal, while Mr. Kelly started to clean up.
 A few days later he was upstairs at choir practice, swaying ever so slightly as his deep, rich voice laid a foundation for the others. At one point, Father Kooperkamp joined in with his harmonica as they rehearsed. By early evening, Mr. Kelly returned to the streets to look for bottles. 
 He did not feel alone.
 ''Father Kooperkamp told me redemption is for everybody,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We're all redeemers.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Kelly, laid off from his job two decades ago, makes a living collecting bottles and cans for redemption on the West Side. He sings with the choir at St. Mary's Episcopal Church. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Charles Kelly rehearsed this month with the church choir at St. Mary's, joined by the Rev. Earl Kooperkamp. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (77%); EASTER SEASON (77%); SOFT DRINKS (76%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (75%); BEER & ALE (71%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



462 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Big Three Workers Give an Inch on Health Care

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 21 

 BODY:
Like other Big Three auto workers, Deborah Stewart has medical coverage that is, if not a free lunch, then close to it. No deductibles. No monthly premiums. But Ms. Stewart, who works at a sprawling General Motors complex in the shadows of the Detroit skyline, says she believes it cannot last. 
 ''They're losing money, saying they've got to make changes, and I think everybody expects that it's going to come,'' said Ms. Stewart, 55, referring to cuts in health care benefits. A 30-year G.M. veteran who oversees robots that attach fenders to cars, she was heading out after her shift Monday at the Detroit/Hamtramck assembly plant, which produces cars like the Buick LeSabre. ''I think it will come,'' she said, ''without a doubt.'' 
 With the decline of the domestic auto industry accelerating, the United Auto Workers union has agreed to a baby-step rollback of its vaunted ''first dollar'' health care coverage, which has long made assembly work at a Big Three automaker one of the most attractive blue-collar jobs in America. Under the coverage, workers at G.M., the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler pay no deductibles or monthly premiums. 
 But this year, the union agreed to let Chrysler start imposing the first deductibles to be paid by Big Three workers, ranging from $100 to $1,000 for workers or retirees who use preferred provider organizations, known as P.P.O.'s. Chrysler workers were informed in a letter on March 10, and the development was first reported this weekend by The Detroit News. 
 While Chrysler will reap only modest savings from the step, and while auto workers still have coverage that is the envy of many white-collar workers, the move is deeply symbolic and a sign of the union's acknowledgment of the competitive pressures from Toyota and other foreign-based competitors. Considering that Chrysler is the healthiest of the Big Three at the moment, and that similar provisions are in all of the Big Three contracts, such arrangements are expected to follow for G.M. and Ford. 
 ''It's a precedent breaker, and it's a union that relies on precedents and agreements,'' said Sean P. McAlinden, director of the economics and business group at the Center for Automotive Research, an independent research firm in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
 ''If something has never been done before, it's very difficult for the union to ratify it or an official to allow it. Then once it happens, it can be blown up.''
 Ford and G.M. would not respond when asked whether they would try to negotiate for the initial use of deductibles for P.P.O.'s. 
 A G.M. spokesman, Stefan Weinmann, said, ''we never talk about our contract with the U.A.W.''
 Marci Evans, a spokeswoman for Ford, said, ''Ford and the U.A.W. continually have discussions regarding contractual provisions which would include health care,'' but added, in reference to DaimlerChrysler, that Ford ''has similar language in its collective bargaining agreement.''
 In a statement Monday, Ron Gettelfinger, the union president, played down the significance of the use of deductibles, saying Big Three workers have co-pays for drugs and office visits, depending on the plan. He added that U.A.W. members in general, who include workers outside the auto industry, were not ''immune to the effects of rising health care costs.''
 Preserving the generous health care coverage of Big Three workers has been the top priority of Mr. Gettelfinger of the union. Before contract negotiations in 2003 he drew a line in the sand over health care costs, declaring at a news conference before the talks ''we're not going to share costs.'' Still, he did give some modest ground in the 2003 contract, agreeing to small increases of co-payments for prescription drugs and some doctor's visits. 
 Mr. McAlinden at Automotive Research said going beyond small cuts would not be easy to sell to union members, though many, like Ms. Stewart at G.M., are realistic about the depressed business climate. 
 ''When it comes to really making a concession of health costs, it's going to be very difficult for them,'' he said. 
 If deductibles came to G.M., ''obviously, everybody would be upset,'' said Craig A. Nothnagel, a G.M. worker and the president of union Local 22 in Detroit. 
 ''Nobody wants to give up any money if they don't have to, but I believe the membership is educated enough and understands enough what's going on around us, with this world economy we were forced into, that things are changing for all of us,'' he said. 
 In the arrangement with Chrysler, the company invoked a little-known provision of its labor contract that allows for a revamping of some aspects of its health care agreements if costs accelerate. Since costs at P.P.O.'s used by the company have recently surpassed those of traditional fee-for-service health plans, Chrysler and the union considered a number of options but agreed to a $100 to $1,000 deductible for workers and retirees who want to remain in P.P.O.'s. 
 Of the 390,000 Americans covered by Chrysler, about 35,000 blue-collar workers and retirees, and their family members, use P.P.O.'s. The company expects to reap savings in the low tens of millions of dollars on its annual $2 billion health care bill. 
 ''It's a drop in the bucket next to $2 billion, but at the same time it's a significant step and certainly indicates that the U.A.W. has their eye on the same issue,'' said David Elshoff, a spokesman for Chrysler. 
 Since the 2003 contract was negotiated, Chrysler has been the one member of the Big Three to show signs of a turnaround. Both G.M. and Ford have continued to see a sharp erosion of their customer base, but G.M.'s sales and financial erosion has been particularly steep. The company held about a quarter of the United States market in February, down from 33 percent a decade ago, and its stock hit a more than 10-year low last week after it announced that it would report two consecutive quarters of losses. 
 G.M. also plans to produce 10 percent fewer vehicles in the first half of the year than it did a year ago. And as it has for the last half-decade, it continues to cut white-collar jobs through buyouts and early retirement packages at a pace of 1,000 to 2,000 workers annually. 
 G.M. is meeting next month with union leaders to discuss its current financial situation, including health care costs. 
 A substantial part of G.M.'s problem -- but hardly the only issue -- is that it is supporting about two and a half retirees for every worker. With health care costs more than $5 billion a year -- and about $1,400 on a vehicle produced in the United States -- many G.M. workers are expecting that long-cherished benefits could be pared back. 
 ''I really don't think that it should come out of our pocket, but it's getting to that point,'' said Rhonda West, 37, a rare recent G.M. hire at the Detroit/Hamtramck plant. 
 Mike Wakely, 49, a production supervisor at the plant who is worried about cuts to salaried benefits, said, ''I fully expect to pay some share of my health care somewhere down the road. Would I like it? No. Would I understand it? Yes. It's not 1950 anymore and there's no longer just three auto companies in the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Wakely, 49, said he expected to pay for health care at some point. ''Would I like it?'' he asked. ''No. Would I understand it? Yes.'' (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Automobiles; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%) Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; General Motors Corp; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



463 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: EUROPEANS SAID TO KEEP EMBARGO ON ARMS TO CHINA

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
Yielding to pressure from President Bush and threats of retaliation from Congress, the European Union has put off plans to lift its arms embargo on China this spring and may not press the issue until next year, American and European officials said Monday. 
 The officials said that in addition to American pressure, European nations have been shaken by the recent adoption of legislation by the Chinese National People's Congress authorizing the use of force to stop Taiwan from seceding. The Chinese action, they said, jolted France and undercut its moves to end the embargo before June.
 ''Europe wants to move forward on the embargo, but the recent actions by China have made things a lot more complex,'' said a senior European official. ''The timeline has become more difficult. The timeline is going to have to slip.'' 
 The embargo was imposed after China's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989, and although some countries have eased their restrictions, it has curbed the supply of weapons to China while also becoming a major irritant in China's relations with the West. 
 A senior State Department official said European ''signals'' of a shift in position had been transmitted in the last few days, most notably by Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, and by a comment from the British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, over the weekend. 
 Mr. Straw said in a television interview in Britain on Sunday that the problems of lifting the embargo ''have actually got more difficult rather than less difficult,'' and that the Chinese action on Taiwan had created ''a difficult political environment'' that had stirred concern by both conservatives and liberals in Europe.
 In Beijing early Monday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Mr. Straw's ''sobering comments'' reinforced the United States' continuing concern that lifting the embargo now would alter the balance of military forces in the region and undercut American efforts to get China to improve its human rights record.
 Ms. Rice returned from Asia on Monday evening after several tough comments directed at China and, less directly, at Europeans. With tensions building in the Taiwan Strait, she said, and China seeking advanced technology for its navy, the sale of European equipment would jeopardize American efforts to secure the area.
 ''After all, it is American forces here in the Pacific that have played the role of security guarantor,'' Ms. Rice said.
 European officials say the European Union will not back off its commitment, made last December and pressed by President Jacques Chirac of France, to lift the embargo at some point, but that doing so now would not be worth jeopardizing relations with the United States.
 American and European officials said internal European politics had played a role in the timing of the planned easing of restrictions: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain was willing to go along with the move, but he did not want it to occur while he serves as president of the European Union. 
 The presidency alternates among the union's 25 members every six months. Mr. Blair, who takes over at the end of June, could not be seen as defying American wishes on such a critical issue, those officials said. Some European and American officials said action on the embargo would probably wait until next year, after he has stepped down.
 In the past few weeks, Europeans have pressed their case for lifting the embargo with the administration and with Congress, arguing that the rules covered lethal weapons but not the high-tech equipment that the United States worries about, like equipment that could help China with its command and control systems and tracking submarines and ships.
 A top European envoy, Annalisa Giannella, was sent by Mr. Solana to Washington last week to make the case that Europe would expand a ''code of conduct'' restricting such equipment and set up a regime that would be effectively tighter than the current one. But Ms. Giannella was said to have persuaded no one, especially in Congress.
 Indeed, administration and European officials say that Europeans have been taken aback by the ferocity of Congressional opposition to lifting the embargo, led by such Republican heavyweights as Senators Ted Stevens of Alaska and John McCain of Arizona.
 Mr. Bush and his top aides have been increasingly vocal over the last couple of months in their demands that the arms embargo not be lifted. In addition, President Bush was reported by administration officials to have told the Europeans in Februrary that even if he went along with lifting the embargo, Congress would not. Congress has been alarmed by Chinese military expansion since the 1990's, when it opposed moves by President Clinton to expand military sales to the Chinese.
 After Ms. Giannella's visit, Congressional leaders reiterated their opposition to lifting the embargo, in some cases threatening retaliation by blocking purchases of European military equipment for American forces. 
 The senior State Department official noted that Ms. Giannella ''said she was here on a listening mode'' and was ''pummeled'' on Capitol Hill. ''The alarm bells tipped off Brussels that this wasn't going to work,'' he said, referring to the headquarters of the European Union.
 President Chirac first proposed lifting the embargo in late 2003, arguing that it was obsolete. European diplomats say that France is not so much interested in selling arms to China as using the possibility of such sales as a way to sell commercial equipment, from Airbus planes to computers. 
 The European Union cannot take any action without a consensus. Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice have impressed enough European leaders with their stance that consensus to move on the embargo is now unlikely.
 ''You won't see a backing away from the commitment,'' said a European official. ''But there's no consensus to act right now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (96%); ARMS TRADE (91%); ARMS EMBARGOES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); RIOTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); JACK STRAW (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%) Steven R Weisman; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Jack (Min) Straw

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (93%); ASIA (79%) China; France; Taiwan; China; Great Britain; Tiananmen Square (Beijing); Beijing (China); China

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



464 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Europe Delays Plans to Lift Arms Embargo on China
Yielding to pressure from President Bush and threats of retaliation from Congress, the European Union has put off plans to lift its arms embargo on China this spring and may not press the issue until next year, officials said. Also, European nations have been shaken by the recent adoption of legislation by China authorizing the use of force to stop Taiwan from seceding. A1

China Balks at Urging N. Korea
In meetings held in Beijing, Chinese government leaders offered Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice no assurances that they would step up pressure on North Korea to return to nuclear disarmament talks, senior officials traveling with her said. A10

Iraqi Cleric Calls for Agreement
The most powerful Shiite cleric in Iraq, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, called for quick agreement on a new government, expressing displeasure with weeks of drawn-out haggling that has begun to stir up unrest in the Iraqi public. The ayatollah appeared to be putting pressure on Kurdish politicians. Continuing violence in Iraq left at least 10 Iraqis dead. A6

Israel to Expand Settlement
Israel publicly confirmed plans to build 3,500 new housing units in the largest Jewish settlement in the West Bank, Maale Adumim. Palestinians angrily responded that such an action would violate the Middle East peace plan. A11

Tensions Rise Over Asian Islets
Japanese claims over two disputed remote islets have recently worsened the country's relations with South Korea. The claims were regarded in South Korea as an attempt to justify Japanese colonial rule and have recently drawn huge protests in front of the Japanese Embassy. A3

Arab Meeting in Algeria
Arab leaders began arriving in the Algerian capital for a summit meeting that opens today and will include a statement of solidarity with Syria and a rejection of any further ''foreign intervention'' in that country's promised pullout from Lebanon. A5

NATIONAL A14-20

Ten Are Dead in Minnesota After Rampage at School
A high school student went on a shooting rampage on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota, killing two of his grandparents, seven people at school and himself, the authorities said. A1

Schiavo Case in Federal Court
The fate of Terri Schiavo landed in federal court, with the judge refusing to immediately rule on whether to restore nutrition and hydration amid pleadings from Ms. Schiavo's parents to act before time ran out. A1

The legislation passed by Congress to keep Ms. Schiavo alive was the culmination of a two-year campaign by social conservatives who had been building support for this cause, along with Ms. Schiavo's parents and brother. A1

President Bush made a public case for helping Ms. Schiavo, praising Congress for sending him the legislation that allowed federal courts to intervene in the case adding, it was wisest to ''err on the side of life.'' A19

Social Security Name Game
In the debate over Social Security, one of the most ferocious struggles is over language, whether President Bush is proposing to create ''personal'' or ''private'' accounts in the program. A16

Details on F.B.I. Memo
The Justice Department released a previously blacked-out F.B.I. memorandum in which departmental lawyers dismissed intelligence obtained by coercive methods used by the military at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba as ''suspect at best.'' A17

High Court Hears Arguments
The Supreme Court heard arguments about how far Congress may go to create and protect religious rights for prison inmates. A20

The justices considered whether the police may be held liable for damages for failing to enforce a court-issued order of protection obtained by a woman whose former husband kidnapped their three young daughters and murdered them while she fruitlessly sought the help of the local police. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Jets Raise the Stakes In Final Bid for Railyards
The Jets offered substantially more money to New York State for the right to build a football stadium over the West Side railyards, raising the stakes for the sought-after site by adding a large commercial development to their original plan. A1

Outsize Political Influence
Four years after it was formed, the Glover Park Group, which has close ties to the Clintons, has become the consulting firm of choice for a broad array of Democratic organizations in New York -- as well as major corporations looking to bring political tactics to boardroom campaigns. B1

Banned in Yonkers
Mayor Philip A. Amicone ordered that all computers at Yonkers City Hall and at the Board of Education be blocked from connecting to a Web site he deemed particularly scurrilous. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F6

FASHION B8

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

More Trouble for Barry Bonds
A woman who says she had nine-year relationship with Barry Bonds has come forward to say that he told her he used steroids. The woman also contends that Bonds gave her $80,000 in cash and advised her how to deposit the money to avoid detection by the authorities. D4

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C16-17

Bobby Short
The singer and pianist whose renditions of popular standards evoked the glamor and sophistication of Manhattan nightlife, he was 80. C17

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Cause for Concern in China
There have been a number of corruption scandals and major bank robberies that raise questions about the future stability of China's economy. Top executives, branch managers, loan officers and thousands of everyday employees have been running off with billions in customers' money. C1

Radio Titan Loses in Court
A jury in Chicago ruled that the entertainment giant Clear Channel Communications had competed unfairly in fighting to win back a contract to hold Supercross motorcycle races and awarded a smaller Chicago promoter $90 million in damages. C1

Benefits Cut in Detroit
The United Auto Workers union has agreed to a baby-step rollback of its vaunted ''first dollar'' health care coverage, which has long made assembly work at a Big Three automaker one of the most attractive blue-collar jobs in America. Many workers expect further benefits cuts as the domestic auto industry continues to decline. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Exploiting Terri Schiavo; Congress's midnight frenzy; time to litigate those Airbus subsidies; Serge Schmemann on World War II.

Column: David Brooks.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); DISARMAMENT (71%); SHOOTINGS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); EUROPE (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ALGERIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



465 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Lending the Good Loan

BYLINE: By James P. Rubin. 
James P. Rubin, assistant secretary of state under , President Bill Clinton, was an adviser to Senator John Kerry during the 2004 presidential campaign.

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
IN the days since President Bush announced the appointment of Paul Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, to lead the World Bank, some Democrats and Europeans have not been shy about expressing their concerns. For example, Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, said the choice was ''hard to understand.'' Responding to the nomination, a German development minister told The Financial Times, ''We are not exactly seeing floods of enthusiasm across old Europe.''
 Along with the selection of John Bolton as ambassador to the United Nations, the nomination of Mr. Wolfowitz has raised fears that Mr. Bush is trying to ''pack the court'' -- to fill international organizations with ideologues who oppose the very idea of international cooperation. 
 But there is an important difference between Mr. Wolfowitz and Mr. Bolton. While Mr. Bolton appears to reject the very purpose of the United Nations, Mr. Wolfowitz has supported the idea that the advanced countries should use their resources to promote democracy and prosperity around the world. Indeed, at the core of the neoconservative mission is the expenditure of American resources in support of democratic values.
 Mr. Wolfowitz himself has called the World Bank's mission of reducing poverty ''one of the greatest moral challenges of our time.'' He is just the right person to build support for this crucial task during the Bush administration.
 As head of the World Bank, Mr. Wolfowitz's effectiveness will be determined by the willingness of the United States and other countries to contribute resources for nonmilitary programs. Thus, for bureaucratic reasons alone, he is sure to become the world's main advocate for foreign aid. Considering that the United States still ranks last among the major industrialized countries in its per capita contributions to foreign aid, and considering that the Republican Party has historically been critical of foreign assistance, it is good news indeed that such an advocate will have the ear of President Bush.
 Some critics oppose Mr. Wolfowitz on the grounds that he was responsible for so many military and political failures in Iraq. It is true that the civilians in the Pentagon were negligent in planning for the aftermath of war in Iraq; there weren't enough American troops and there were few contingency plans to secure the country against a potential insurgency. It is also true that Mr. Wolfowitz was naive in predicting that American forces would be seen as liberators instead of occupiers by many Iraqis, and that reconstruction could be financed largely through Iraqi oil revenues.
 But these were questions of means, not motive. His motives were laudable and in line with a tradition of foreign policy idealism that both parties have supported at different times: the use of American power to fight tyranny and support democratic values. Mr. Wolfowitz was one of the few Republicans who supported President Clinton's interventions in Bosnia and Kosovo.
 The neoconservative movement is distinctive in part for its willingness to expend American resources -- military and economic -- to promote democratic change. Mr. Wolfowitz has shown poor judgment in significant military matters, and that is a legitimate critique. But at the World Bank, he will be leading not an army but a painstaking campaign to build respect for the rule of law, openness and good governance through development projects and international cooperation. He will be doing something that Democratic presidents from John F. Kennedy to Bill Clinton have supported -- and that today's Democrats should support, too.
 Members of the aid community worry that Mr. Wolfowitz will undermine the World Bank's central mission of alleviating poverty. Greenpeace, for example, has called his nomination a ''disaster'' because he will ''put U.S. and oil industry interests first.'' But he has made clear that whether it is aid to countries like Burma or Iran, which the United States has opposed, or the American preference for grants rather than loans, he recognizes that his new role will entail a new way of doing business. If he becomes president of the bank, he has said that his job will be to see if he ''can shape a consensus on these things'' not push the American view. By most accounts, during his time as United States ambassador to Indonesia, he was an effective diplomat and consensus-builder.
 Finally, there is the issue of Mr. Wolfowitz's critique of multilateralism. Again, this concern is mainly relevant in the military sphere, where the United States has such overwhelming power that unilateral action is a realistic option. When it comes to development programs, multilateralism is the only option. Mr. Wolfowitz has said in his new job he would be an ''international civil servant,'' a term that undoubtedly makes many conservatives cringe. Because of their huge financial contributions, European and Asian nations have far more influence on development issues than they do on military matters. To succeed, by necessity Mr. Wolfowitz will have to shelve the unilateral rhetoric he relished while at the Pentagon.
 Democrats struggling with the appointment of Mr. Wolfowitz may want to keep in mind that spreading democracy is a bipartisan mission. As they say, in politics sometimes you have to let the other guy have your way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); RANKINGS (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); IRAQ WAR (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); BILL CLINTON (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) James P Rubin; Paul D (Deputy Sec) Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



466 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Another Top Treasury Official Announces Resignation Plans

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
John B. Taylor, the Treasury Department's under secretary for international affairs, said Monday that he would resign on April 22, the latest in a series of top-level resignations at the department since the elections in November. 
 Administration officials are hoping to replace Mr. Taylor with Tim Adams, a former Treasury official who coordinated economic policy issues for President Bush's re-election campaign last year. Many of the other vacant posts have not been filled. 
 Mr. Taylor, a monetary economist who signed on at the start of President Bush's first term, had periodically been rumored as a candidate to lead the World Bank or even as a possible successor to Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
 But Mr. Bush nominated Paul D. Wolfowitz, deputy secretary of defense, to run the World Bank. Administration officials said Mr. Taylor had made it clear for months that he wanted to resign.
 After he leaves, Mr. Taylor is likely to resume his post as a professor at Stanford University, a friend of his said.
 ''I have been flexible about the date of my return to the private sector,'' Mr. Taylor said in his resignation letter to President Bush. ''I would now like to set April 22 as the effective date of my resignation.''
 That will keep him at his post until after this spring's meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 But his departure will add to the large number of empty positions at the top of the Treasury Department, which many specialists say has lost much of its power as President Bush has concentrated economic decision-making in a small circle of White House advisers.
 The open posts include the No.2 spot of deputy secretary, which became vacant when Samuel Bodman was named secretary of energy; the assistant secretary in charge of tax policy; and the assistant secretary for domestic finance, who oversees the department's issuance of federal debt.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, who had appeared in jeopardy of being replaced shortly after the elections, has focused much of his time on promoting Mr. Bush's campaign to overhaul Social Security.
 As under secretary for international affairs, Mr. Taylor has been responsible for the administration's dealings with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, including the negotiations to provide a rescue package for Brazil in 2002 and talks with Argentina after its financial collapse in 2001.
 The most important international issue for Mr. Taylor's successor is likely to be China, which had a trade surplus of $162 billion with the United States last year and has kept its currency, the yuan, pegged at a fixed exchange rate to the dollar for a decade.
 Treasury officials have been prodding Chinese leaders for two years to adopt a more flexible exchange rate. Some economists say the existing rate is undervalued by at least 25 percent and makes Chinese imports to the United States cheaper than they would be otherwise.
 Mr. Adams, who served as chief of staff to Paul H. O'Neill when he was Treasury secretary and to Mr. Snow before joining the Bush campaign, is expected to be nominated to succeed Mr. Taylor. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: John B. Taylor has been liaison to the World Bank and I.M.F. (Photo by Faleh Kheiber/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); RESIGNATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



467 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Time to Litigate Those Airbus Subsidies

 BODY:
Negotiations between the United States and Europe over Europe's subsidies to Airbus aren't going well -- to say the least. A contentious telephone session late last Friday between Peter Mandelson, the European Union's trade commissioner, and Robert Zoellick, the American deputy secretary of state, ended abruptly, with an irate Mr. Mandelson narrowly winning the race to hang up first. Mr. Zoellick then publicly derided the European Union for its refusal to eliminate key Airbus subsidies. A spokesman said the European trade minister was ''completely surprised'' by the outburst. 
 Actually, the real surprise is that the United States ever thought the Europeans would voluntarily take Airbus off the dole in the first place. Anyone who watched the once-fledgling Airbus grow up, spoonfed subsidies from inception, could predict this is a company addicted to corporate welfare.
 Airbus has received some $15 billion in launch aid loans from the governments of Spain, France, Britain and Germany -- risk-free loans, since Airbus doesn't have to pay the money back unless the planes sell. For years, European governments claimed it was necessary to help their infant industry compete against a more mature American competitor, Boeing. 
 Well, that argument doesn't sell anymore, since Airbus now sells more planes than Boeing does. The two sides have been trying one last time to hash out a resolution. Last week Mr. Zoellick stopped short of breaking off the talks. But he warned, in delicate bureaucratese, that if Airbus went back to the public trough for more launch aid for the new midsize airplane it is designing to compete with Boeing's new 7E7 Dreamliner, the United States would go to the World Trade Organization. Great. This case should have been taken to the W.T.O. a long time ago. 
 Airbus and the European Union like to counter with the red herring that Boeing also gets government help, through defense contracts, and through tax breaks from Washington State. Neither argument holds up. Airbus's parent companies receive more in defense revenue than Boeing, according to American negotiators. The Washington State tax breaks would take 20 years to realize, while Airbus gets to munch on launch aid in the here and now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (68%); AIRLINES (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (61%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%) Airlines and Airplanes; Editorials; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%) European Union; Airbus Industrie; Boeing Co; World Trade Organization

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (88%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005



468 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; New York Has to Import Dirt?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: 100 Truckloads Turn Convention Center Into a Track

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
A glacier had to melt for something like a millennium to dump enough dirt and rock to create Brooklyn's highest elevation. And Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux required 16 years to conjure the rolling hills of Central Park.
 But it took only eight days to build the dirt mountain on West 39th Street.
 This temporary ridge is actually part of a test track at the 2005 New York International Auto Show. And though the course is now essentially complete, a small army of workers is still toiling to perfect the auto show, which opens to the public on Friday at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. 
 Yesterday, even as technicians tweaked the ''exhibitry,'' as they like to call it, trained drivers began testing the track at a maximum of four miles per hour over a series of obstacles that included a water hazard, a boulder field, a log traverse and a gravel pit. 
 One nonnatural wonder, however, is the most distinctive feature of the 45,000-square-foot display, whose formal name is Camp Jeep New York, a $1 million promotional celebration of vehicular branding. It is a hill -- Jeep Mountain, of course -- that will elevate visitors more than 20 feet above the floor as they climb its precipitous slopes in shiny new vehicles. 
 The exhibit takes up the entire North Pavilion of Javits, which its management describes as a ''permanent tent'' west of 11th Avenue between West 39th Street and West 40th Street. 
 It will take five minutes to ride the entire track circuit, ''which is an eighth of a mile -- double the length of a great roller-coaster ride,'' said John Tulloch, senior vice president of client services for the George P. Johnson Company of Auburn Hills, Mich., a design firm that helped to create Camp Jeep. 
 Some assembly has definitely been required. 
 Raw materials have included the dirt deposited by more than 100 dump trucks, in addition to four tons of rocks, boulders and gravel. Not to mention 26 truckloads of exhibits and 7,200 feet of graphic signs and displays.
 ''This attraction at the auto show is becoming a destination location, as if people are going to a theme park for 4X4's,'' said Candida Romanelli, the director of the show, which will charge an admission of $12, $4 for children under 12. 
 Theme park indeed. During the show's 10-day run, 37 bands will perform 30-minute sets and there will be video game attractions and even children's rides on Fisher-Price mini-Jeeps. 
 The test track, which is 12 to 14 feet wide, made its world debut at the New York auto show last year. It is higher and steeper this time around, and now has a second, shorter hill. During the show, 10 vehicles will navigate the track at any one time, and an additional 26 Jeeps will be on display.
 As the cost of crude oil keeps rising, are all these gas-guzzlers on the test course little more than dinosaurs, circuiting some Hell's Kitchen equivalent of Jurassic Park? ''No one who is developing automobiles can afford not to consider the price of oil in planning for the future,'' said Jeff Bell, vice president for Jeep and Chrysler at DaimlerChrysler. ''But we feel that these can be really efficient vehicles,'' he added, describing Jeep engines that permit disengaging some of their cylinders for better fuel economy. 
 So far, oil-shock recoil seems unlikely to limit visitors to the auto show, which drew 1.2 million people last year and is expected to draw 24,000 more this year, according to Ms. Romanelli, who said that some 200 exhibitors would be displaying 1,000 vehicles, 30 more than last year.
 More than 300,000 auto show visitors last year took in Camp Jeep, according to Mr. Bell, and some 36,000 waited in line for more than an hour to take test drives. 
 But beyond its popularity, the dirt mountain was actually a solution to a visibility problem for Jeep at the auto show, since the company had been relegated to the bottom floor of Javits with its ''lower ceilings and lots of columns,'' Mr. Tulloch said. ''So when we stumbled on this space, which had been underutilized, we thought, maybe this could get Jeep out of the basement,'' he said.
 On March 14, the 52,000-square-foot North Pavilion was a phenomenally large, and phenomenally empty, space, until shortly before 8 a.m., when a flotilla of 53-foot semi-tractor-trailers full of exhibit boxes began roaring into the building. 
 Looking on were Blaise Pewinsky and Steve Rachwal, supervisors from the Johnson firm. As more and more material arrived, the pavilion space seemed to shrink. ''This'll look like a big mess for days,'' Mr. Pewinsky said cheerfully as 24 carpenters, four electricians and a six forklift operators raced to prepare the exhibit. 
 Last Wednesday, workmen continued the construction of the summit of Jeep Mountain, a humpbacked steel road with guide rails that, with its elaborate black support latticework, resembled a section of the Cyclone in Coney Island. 
 Last year's 12-foot-high mountain was constructed entirely of packed dirt, ''and we had reached the height limit for the bulldozers in creating a hill, and in giving it a steep slope,'' Mr. Tulloch said. This year, with the steel frame, the angle is steeper and the slope higher ''and it now looks like a roller coaster,'' he said. 
 The dirt arrived on Thursday, in truck after truck: clean, photogenic reddish soil that was pushed by a phalanx of Bluto-size Caterpillar tractors into a 15-foot-tall mountain of loose dirt at the eastern side of the pavilion. 
 The mountain ultimately became a molehill when it was pushed around the hall to create the driving track, and used to pack the approaches and sides of the hills. By Friday, an oasis of 12-foot-tall artificial trees had sprouted. Sunday was decorating day: many remaining exhibit bits and pieces emerged from the crates as backdrops and visuals were lifted into place.
 It was not until this week that most of the vehicles had arrived, and by yesterday the hall had seemed to shrink so much, thanks to the sheer mass of the show, that the Jeep Mountain seemed to soar Fuji-like, at an impossibly steep angle, up into the pavilion's lighting grid. Its hill climb ascends at a 35-degree slope and descends at a 45-degree angle, beginning and ending, yes, in dirt. 
 Not only was this dirt distributed by bulldozer and shovel, but also by pail, thanks to Lendell Erwin, 26, a scenic artist who described himself as a ''dirt dresser.'' He sprayed a clear coat of acrylic on the bosky contoured fiberglass-foam facade of the shorter hill. Then he reached into the pail and liberally tossed up handfuls of dirt, which adhered to the acrylic. ''It's harder than you'd think,'' Mr. Erwin said, ''to place the dirt artistically.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 2005 Jeep takes on the obstacle course at the Javits Convention Center, where the auto show opens on Friday.
A dirt track being formed at the center. More that 1.2 million visitors are expected to attend the 10-day auto show. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Workers unload fake boulders, part of a giant mountain obstacle course for Jeeps at the 2005 New York International Auto Show. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GEORGE P JOHNSON CO INC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



469 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Fed Lifts Rate 7th Time in Year And Warns of Greater Inflation 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve raised new worries about inflation on Tuesday, setting off alarms in the stock and bond markets that the central bank might drive up interest rates faster than investors had been expecting. 
 The Fed nudged up short-term interest rates for the seventh time in the last year, raising the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent. It restated its intention to keep raising them at a ''measured'' pace in the months ahead.
 But in a departure from previous declarations, the central bank said there were rising inflationary pressures beyond those tied directly to the recent jumps in oil prices. 
 ''Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident,'' the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.
 The Fed also changed its assessment of risks to the economy. Last month, it said the risks to inflation and growth were ''roughly equal.'' On Tuesday, it said the risks ''should be kept roughly equal,'' but said its outlook was dependent on ''appropriate monetary policy action.'' That implied that the Fed might have to take tougher action. 
 The hawkish new language jolted investors, who immediately raised their bets on the possibility of bigger rate increase by the end of June and higher long-term interest rates.
 Continuing a slide in recent weeks, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq both dropped by 0.9 percent after the Fed announcement. The Dow, which had been approaching 11,000 not long ago, closed at 10,470.51 yesterday. [Page C1.]
 Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds, which are closely tied to mortgage rates, jumped to 4.64 percent from 4.47 after the announcement. That came on top of a rise from about 4.10 percent in mid-February. 
 ''There's a greater prospect that they will raise faster in the relatively near term,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm. ''In addition, there is a prospect that the cumulative increase will be larger than expected.'' 
 The statement came shortly after the release of new data showing that wholesale prices climbed much more slowly in February than they had in January.
 The Commerce Department reported that the Producer Price Index climbed 0.4 percent in February, mostly because of a sharp run-up in oil prices. Though much less than the rise of 0.8 percent in January, the two-month gain pushed up producer prices at the fastest pace in years. Excluding energy and food, producer prices climbed only 0.1 percent. 
 Fed officials pay much less heed to producer prices than to consumer prices, and they have argued that oil prices have fairly little enduring impact on inflation.
 But there have been other indicators of rising price pressures. Import prices, which had climbed very slowly despite a significant drop in the value of the dollar, have started to rise more rapidly. Commodity prices, measured by the Reuters-CRB index, have climbed to their highest level in 24 years.
 Possibly more important to Fed officials is the increased ability of companies to pass on higher costs to customers. Fed officials were fixated on the absence of ''pricing power'' two years ago, when worries about declining prices were dominant.
 The Fed's most recent beige book, a collection of anecdotal reports, said that companies across the country were facing higher supply costs but that manufacturers in many districts were ''finding it increasingly easy to pass along price increases.''
 In an effort to reassure investors, the central bank once again said that it could afford to raise rates at a ''pace that is likely to be measured.'' Investors have interpreted that phrase to mean a series of quarter-point rate increases that would bring overnight rates to about 3.5 percent by the end of this year.
 The Fed also played down worries about the inflationary impact of higher oil prices, which policy makers view as essentially a one-time event. 
 Fed officials have frequently used communications as a way to manage expectations without actually changing rates. But the central bank's tone about the underlying trend revealed a growing concern.
 In January and February, the Fed said it expected underlying inflation to be ''relatively low.'' On Tuesday, it said it expected inflation to be ''contained,'' a more vague and less confident assertion. More important, it conditioned its benign outlook on inflation and growth on ''appropriate'' monetary policy -- a hint that tougher action may be required. 
 ''The Fed is recognizing that inflation pressures are picking up,'' said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. ''The statement says pretty explicitly that they are committed to making sure that it doesn't pick up any further.''
 In advance of Tuesday's policy meeting, analysts had been fixated on whether Fed officials would abandon any reference to raising rates at a ''measured'' pace.
 Numerous Fed officials have acknowledged that they would have to drop that language at some point, because the series of rate increases would eventually bring the Federal funds rate back near a ''neutral'' level that neither stimulates nor slows down the economy.
 But with inflation indicators ticking up in the recent weeks, analysts had begun to speculate that a removal of the ''measured'' language would signal a bigger rate increase, perhaps half a point. 
 In effect, the Fed distanced itself from its past language without quite dropping it. By keeping the language about a measured pace, but adding new cautions about inflation, analysts said the Federal Reserve had essentially retreated from the implicit promise of raising rates by only a quarter-point at a time.
 Even without the prospect of inflation, Fed officials had been planning to keep raising short-term rates until they reached a neutral level.
 Historically, the federal funds rate has averaged about 23/4 percentage points above the rate of inflation, according to Mr. Meyer of Macroeconomic Advisers.
 But Mr. Meyer said the Federal Reserve's idea of neutral is probably much closer to 13/4 percent above the inflation rate. That would be higher than today's federal funds rate, perhaps about 4 percent. 
 Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has refused to hint at what a neutral rate might be but warned last month about the dangers of ''complacency'' and expressed bewilderment that long-term interest rates had actually been falling even as short-term rates were rising.
 Investors may have taken the hint. Long-term rates have been inching up since Mr. Greenspan's comments in mid-February.
 ''When Greenspan is short on complacency, I would recommend to my clients that they be long on volatility,'' said David A. Rosenberg, chief United States economist at Merrill Lynch. ''It injects some uncertainty into the markets.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a warning on inflation by the Federal Reserve as it raised short-term interest rates for a seventh time misidentified the government agency that reports the Producer Price Index, which measures wholesale prices. It is the Department of Labor, not Commerce.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the New York Stock Exchange waited for news from the Federal Reserve Board yesterday. (Photo by Diane Bondareff/Bloomberg News)(pg. C8)Graph tracks Federal funds target rate since 2001.(Source by Bloomberg Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%) United States Economy; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds; Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



470 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: Fulton Market Looks Forward To Bronx Dawns

BYLINE: By DANA BOWEN

 BODY:
IT IS easy to become sentimental about the Fulton Fish Market as you tour it in its final weeks, in its 184th year. Arrive at daybreak, when the sky is turning pink beyond the Brooklyn Bridge, and you have found a forgotten city. Salesmen with gaff hooks engraved with their nicknames hoist silver fish over their shoulders, shouting orders. Journeymen cart boxes through clouds of their own frozen breath. Hire-by-night laborers huddle around bonfires, looking for warmth and work. 
 On June 10, said George Maroulis, Fulton's market manager, this will all be a memory like pushcarts on Hester Street. By then the hawkers and squawkers will leave their home by the harbor for the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx and a squeaky-clean box of a building, as long as the Empire State Building is tall. There, arrows on the floor will direct a fleet of new battery-operated forklifts past neat vendor stalls flanking a central corridor, with sinks, floor drains and other instruments of government-regulated food safety. A bland Costco to Fulton's choreographed chaos.
 For Fulton merchants like Frank Minio, though, the move, which was first scheduled for Jan. 15, cannot come quickly enough. While per capita seafood consumption in the United States climbed almost 10 percent between 1999 and 2003, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, wholesalers here say business has held steady at best. 
 ''It became in vogue not to buy at Fulton,'' Mr. Minio said, standing in a dank, noirishly lighted room at Smitty's Fillet House, where two men and a woman filleted fish with thin curved knives. ''If you see a picture of this, you think, I don't want my fish from there.''
 Mr. Minio, a son of Smitty and an owner, beamed as he described his new fillet station, with Marlite walls and the latest ice technology from Europe, which covers fish in salt-water slush. Not the kind of place you would expect to find Johnny Dirtyface, Smitty's legendary filleter, who famously treated a knife wound with half a bottle of whiskey from Carmine's bar and drank the rest before resuming his shad-cutting marathon.
 The new market's improvements, including constant refrigeration, larger storage facilities and faster unloading, will make it easier for Mr. Minio to maintain the quality of his hand-filleted fish, ''a dying art,'' he said. Unlike the more uniform machine fillets from production houses ''over the road'' in New Bedford, Mass., hand cuts are packaged without sodium tripolyphosphate, which retains moisture and preserves appearance. ''It kills the flavor,'' Mr. Minio added.
 Mr. Maroulis, hired to manage the fish market after running the Hunts Point Produce Market for six years, estimated that more than 4.5 million pounds of fish moves through Fulton each week, making it the largest fish market in this hemisphere. But its dinosaur looks and lumpen reputation have been scaring away business.
 ''I don't like the way they treat fish down there,'' said Cornelius Gallagher, the chef at Oceana. ''It will have gaff marks. It will be all bruised up. The flesh won't be consistent.'' In a race to land the best fish, most chefs buy from suppliers, many based outside of Fulton, who in turn buy most of their fish directly from boats or brokers. 
 Large companies have also bought direct. ''A.&P. used to be down here, Food Fair used to be down here,'' said Robert Kirby -- Blue Eyes to his colleagues -- a soft-spoken salesman who has worked for Joseph H. Carter at the market for 40 years. ''Now they've cut the market out altogether.''
 His office, a wooden shack the size of a roomy outhouse, flanks a pier where boats used to unload their catches. The last, according to ''The Official Fulton Fish Market Cookbook'' by Bruce Beck (Dutton, 1989), was a scallop boat called the Felicia in 1979. Now trucks haul in fish from auctions in the Northeast, wharves and airports around the country. 
 Still, some of New York's best seafood chefs are loyal to Fulton, and dealers like Pierless Fish -- which supplies Oceana and Chanterelle, among others -- shop there to fill gaps and maintain relationships. 
 ''We work exclusively with Blue Ribbon'' at the market, said Eric Ripert, the chef at Le Bernardin. That morning, David Samuels, Blue Ribbon's owner, was shopping for Mr. Ripert. ''I know what they want, I know what they use it for,'' he said. ''The fish has to be so good for the way they prepare it.''
 Mr. Samuels hovered over a batch of glossy pink Apalachicola shrimp. ''Fresh,'' he said. ''Never been frozen. And believe it or not, that's very rare for shrimp.'' A salesman grabbed one with a gloved hand and bit into it raw. They were destined for the restaurant Jean Georges.
 Mr. Samuels said picky chefs have raised the standard of seafood over the years. He said Gilbert Le Coze, the charismatic founder of Le Bernardin, even cooked for him to demonstrate the fresh imperative. He wistfully recalled a sea urchin soup speckled with roe.
 Le Coze never asked prices, and as a result Mr. Samuels paid more for fresher fish. ''He took the whole industry to a new level. He took us to a new level.''
 Wholesalers today are paying top dollar for shipping, packaging and piscatorial buzzwords like ''day boat'' fish (guaranteed fresher than catches from boats that fish for days at a time) and ''line caught'' (which does not damage the fish or its ecosystem). 
 But, Mr. Samuels said, most of his business is less pampered. ''For every red snapper or sea bass, we sell 100 pounds of whiting, porgies, things people never heard of.'' 
 Of whiting, the inexpensive cousin of cod sold in fry shops, he added, ''It's a wonderful fish.'' David Pasternack, the chef of the seafood shrine Esca and of the new Bistro du Vent, puts it on the menu when it is abundant in local waters, about now. 
 Many seasonal and imported fish land on menus as a result of market visits from chefs and their buyers. Today's dizzying selection of imported fish is a result of quotas placed on American fish to protect and replenish their populations as well as of the market's shift toward Caribbean, Asian and Russian customers. 
 To demonstrate the flavor of new-to-market fish, fishmongers have been known to serve samples. When Danny Feig and his colleague, Ronnie Breyer, were importing clams from New Zealand, they made a stew called ''giambot.'' In Italian that means the kitchen sink, Mr. Breyer said, because it also contained shrimp, whitefish and anything else they needed to get rid of.
 Other soups followed -- chowders, even chili -- and became as popular with other fishmongers as with market customers. ''It got out of hand,'' said Mr. Breyer, bundled in four layers, an earring glinting under his hood, recalling the 70 gallons he carted from home every week in the late 1990's.
 Recipes are used as selling points, too, especially among the market's increasingly diverse population. ''When I first started, I was the only Puerto Rican doing what I'm doing,'' said Ziggy Galarza, a salesman at Fair Fish for 23 years. 
 He threw a four-foot silver-skinned kingfish, which he calls by its Spanish name, sierra, onto a scale, and said he tells his boss to order extra during Lent -- the market's busiest season -- because families like his ''eat this fish cold, pickled, in escabeche.''
 In many ways food is the tie that binds this market together. ''Customers bring food down here,'' said Naima Rauam, a watercolorist who has painted the market since 1965 and will rent space from Mr. Samuels at the new market. ''There are parties. Everyone mingles.''
 ''When Sloppy Louie's was still in business, the fishmongers would go there at the breakfast hour, and they would take a piece of fish that they'd eyed over the course of the night,'' she recalled over the phone. Until 1998, when Sloppy Louie's closed, its cook would prepare fish to their specifications. 
 The market has historically sold to anyone willing to brave it. During the 1940's the Works Progress Administration sponsored radio broadcasts from there, which began ''Good morning, housewives,'' and ended with cooking tips for fish in season. 
 Annie, who has peddled papers and cigarettes at the market for more than 50 years (and won't reveal her last name), says Fulton still feeds the neighborhood. ''The old Jewish women smell the fish, put it in a bag,'' she said of shoppers from the Lower East Side. ''They want fresh cod.''
 But Janel Patterson, the spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation, said the new market ''will be a regulated, secured entry.'' Buyers will have to pass a guarded checkpoint off Food Center Drive in an industrial zone crowded with trucks and pay a fee to enter. (Fishmongers say they will give Annie a lift or hire her a car.)
 Klara Trofimova, a home cook from the Bronx, has been buying fish for her family at Fulton for six years. ''I like this view, I like this smell,'' she said around midnight at the M. Slavin & Sons stall, after picking a 16-pound salmon her husband intended to cure with salt. ''I don't know about the Bronx.''
 The new market may still be as much of a bargain as the old one, where last week you could have scored hake from Maine for $2 a pound and a bag of 150 local cherrystone clams for $25, along with culinary tips. 
 ''You put three tablespoons of olive oil in the bottom of the pot with three cloves of fresh garlic,'' Blue Eyes began his clam sauce recipe, which he makes for his wife, Lynne Kirby. Mr. Kirby said he will try out the new market but is counting down the days until retirement in a year and a half. 
 Carter is one of the 43 wholesalers moving north and filling the new market to capacity. The handful remaining are either moving elsewhere or going out of business. 
 And no one is quite sure what will be left behind. General Growth Properties, the developer that last year bought the Rouse Corporation, which owned Pier 17, holds lease options on half the market buildings.
 Meanwhile, importers like Mr. Feig undeterred by the move, look for the next big fish. Some once-offbeat varieties have been crossover hits, like the yellowtail snapper he started importing in 1987. Others, like parrotfish, which he recalls hauling back from Antigua in dripping wet suitcases in 1985, are popular only with Caribbean shoppers.
 Mr. Feig is banking on an Amazonian beauty called tambaqui, which, he said, eats berries and tastes like pork. Peacock bass, a wild species cultivated in Brazil, can hit big, too. And, he has his eye on the next frontier. 
 ''Africa,'' he whispered. ''It's an untapped source.''

Seafood Giambot
Adapted from Ronnie Breyer
Time: 30 minutes

12 large chowder clams (quahogs) or 1 cup minced clams plus 2 to 3 8-ounce bottles clam juice
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 carrot, peeled and diced
1 medium onion, peeled and coarsely chopped
1 celery stalk, diced
2 teaspoons minced garlic
1 1/2 cups zucchini, quartered, then sliced
1 cup diced potatoes
1 cup chopped parsley, plus more for garnish
1 1/2 cups dry white wine
28 ounces canned tomatoes
1 pound large shrimp, peeled
1 1/2 pounds skinless fillets of cod, snapper or haddock, cut into chunks
Salt and freshly ground black pepper.

1. If using fresh clams, combine them in a large pot with 3/4 cup water. Cover, and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Cook until the clams open, 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer clams to a bowl, discard any that are broken or unopened, and strain liquid into another bowl through a fine-meshed strainer lined with cheesecloth. Remove meat from shells, and chop into bite-size pieces. Reserve clams and liquid separately.
2. Combine butter and oil in a large soup pot, and place over medium heat. Add carrots, onion, celery and garlic, and saute until the onions are translucent, about 3 minutes. Add zucchini, potatoes and parsley. Cover, and cook until vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes. Stir in wine and 2 cups of reserved or bottled clam juice. Add tomatoes and 2 1/2 cups water. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low.
3. Add shrimp, fish and clams. If additional liquid is needed, add more clam juice or water. Cook for 10 minutes, until fish is flaky. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle with parsley, and serve immediately.

Yield: 8 servings

Sierra Escabeche
Adapted from Ramona Galarza
Time: 25 minutes

3 pounds kingfish or mackerel steaks
Goya adobo seasoning
1 cup canola oil
1 large Spanish onion, peeled and thinly sliced
1 medium green pepper, thinly sliced
1/2 cup white vinegar
3 to 4 bay leaves
Freshly ground black pepper.

1. Season fish steaks on both sides with adobo to taste. In a large saute pan heat 3/4 cup of oil over medium heat, and fry steaks for 3 minutes to a side. Transfer to a plate. Discard oil in pan, and wash pan.
2. Return pan to medium heat, and add remaining 1/4 cup oil, onion and pepper. Saute until vegetables begin to soften, 1 to 2 minutes. Add vinegar and bay leaves, and continue to saute until vegetables are soft, 2 to 3 minutes more. Transfer half the mixture to a bowl, and return pan to medium heat.
3. Add the steaks to the skillet, and pour the mixture in the bowl on top. Season to taste with black pepper, cover, and cook for 10 minutes. Transfer everything to a covered dish, and place in the refrigerator to chill. Serve steaks, with vegetables, chilled or at room temperature, whole or in large pieces (careful of bones), within 5 days.

Yield: 8 to 10 appetizer or side-dish servings.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A NEW DAY, A NEW ERA -- The Fulton Fish Market on the East River bustles with predawn action. The fish sellers will move to the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx in June. (Photographs by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
ONLY THE MEMORIES WILL STAY BEHIND -- Modern indoor facilities await fish wholesalers in the Bronx, but their jobs will not become any easier. Clockwise from top left: Patrick O'Connor and other workers try to keep warm on a frigid morning. Warren Kremlin tosses a fish on a scale. Robert Kirby has worked at the Fulton market for 40 years. Jimmy Valentine wrestles with a four-foot kingfish and wins.
A LENTEN FAVORITE -- John Rebolo weighs a kingfish at M. Slavin & Sons.
AKA CHOWDER -- Giambot bubbles with clams, codand shrimp. (Photographs by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times
 below left, Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (78%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); SEAFOOD (73%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



471 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Founding Curmudgeon Who Spared the Nation a War

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

'John Adams'
''Party of One''
By James Grant
Illustrated. 530 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $30.
 Of all the Founding Fathers, John Adams may be the hardest to love, or even appreciate. Vain, querulous, disputatious and stubborn, he often cuts a poor figure in that crowded company of geniuses, and his own countrymen responded accordingly. 
 After a single term as president, notable for the passage of the repressive Alien and Sedition Acts, he failed to win re-election and retired to his farm, complaining constantly that a life in public service had left him low on cash.
 Yet this is the man who won the heart of the brilliant, passionate Abigail, and who, as a leader of the independence faction at the Continental Congress, profoundly impressed Thomas Jefferson, for many years a bitter rival, who wrote: ''He was not graceful or elegant, nor remarkably fluent, but came out occasionally with a power of thought or expression, that moved us from our seats.'' He was, Jefferson added, ''our Colossus on the floor.'' 
 In this urbane, gracefully written biography, James Grant wages the kind of tough, uphill battle that his tough-minded subject would appreciate, acknowledging Adams's weaknesses and character flaws, appraising his political blunders coolly but in the end leaving the reader with a richer appreciation of the Adams that Abigail and Jefferson saw, a man of firm principles who, for most of his very long life, labored tirelessly for the country-in-the-making whose future he never doubted, even when those around him wavered and trembled.
 Mr. Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer and the author of several books on finance and financial history, has a sharp eye for the subtleties and contradictions that made Adams a baffling character to friends and enemies alike. 
 He was a conservative revolutionary, with a firm belief in ''liberty, learning and progress,'' but his deep suspicion of popular rule led him, early on, to argue for a system of checks and balances, and throughout his life, for a property requirement for voters. 
 He was a fourth-generation Puritan who could write, in a letter to his wife, ''I have no confidence in any Man who is not exact in his morals,'' yet he rejected the Calvinist doctrine of predestination, arranged for the consecration of America's first Episcopal bishops and, at the very end of his life, when Massachusetts was rewriting its Constitution, argued for equal protection under the law for ''all men of all religions,'' even Jews. 
 Although an ardent patriot, he defended in court Capt. Thomas Preston, the officer accused of ordering the Boston Massacre, and won his acquittal. Fiercely ambitious, he despised worldly fame. (''What an Atom, an Animalcule I am,'' he once wrote.) He fretted constantly about his poor health, yet lived to 90. 
 Mr. Grant is much taken with the theory that many of Adams's quirks and character defects can be attributed to Graves' disease, a thyroid condition that would account for Adam's sore eyes and the bouts of depression, irritability and paranoia that caused some contemporaries to label him mad. Benjamin Franklin, along with the French, did not know what to make of Adams and his strange approach to diplomacy, which relied heavily on blunt demands and long, lecturing letters to the Count de Vergennes, the French foreign minister, who, Mr. Grant writes, regarded Adams as ''contentious, ungracious and even delusional,'' and at one point tried to have him recalled. 
 The Graves' theory is intriguing, plausible and unprovable. Mr. Grant stands on firmer ground in detailing the frustrations and obstacles that brought out the worst and the best in Adams, who again and again met adversity head on and more often than not triumphed. Against forbidding odds, he coaxed loans from the Dutch that kept the United States afloat and, by dogged persistence, helped negotiate the Treaty of Paris with Britain, which, for all its flaws, ended the conflict between the United States and its mother country. 
 For most of his life, Adams took on the heavy lifting and dirty work that transformed the fractious colonies into a nation and got it up and running. ''Nobody knows of it,'' Adams wrote of his diplomatic work in a letter to Abigail. ''Nobody cares for it. But I shall be rewarded for it, in heaven I hope.'' The reader, at this point, is prepared to heave a sympathetic sigh, but then Adams adds: ''Is it not Strange and Sad that Simple Integrity should have so many Ennemies?'' 
 Throughout, Mr. Grant displays a light touch with a heavy subject. He looks at Adams with deep sympathy and admiration, but also with amusement. The years in France make rich comedy, with the stiff-necked, thoroughly American Adams pitted against the decadent, duplicitous French, and, even worse, Franklin, so lax, easygoing and worldly that he might as well have been French himself. Adams hated him, and, as Mr. Grant writes, ''his hatreds were throbbing, intricately constructed and obsessive.''
 Adams was not a very good president. It seems totally in character that, as president, his main achievement, avoiding all-out war with France, was intangible -- not something he did, but something he did not do. Mr. Grant concedes the point, and many others. Adams was a diplomat with no diplomatic skills, a politician incapable of playing politics. He was indeed a party of one. Yet in the end it's impossible not to feel something like reverence and yes, even affection, for this awkward, off-putting, impossible and thoroughly principled man.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Grant (Photo by Sigrid Estrada/Farrar, Straus & Giroux) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (85%); ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (64%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); EQUAL PROTECTION (63%); ACQUITTAL (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: William Grimes; James Grant; John (1735-1826) Adams

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



472 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Investigation of A.I.G.'s Deals Moves Offshore

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Regulators are examining whether the American International Group has in recent years burnished its results by striking deals with offshore insurers that appear to be independent companies but that may in fact be affiliates of A.I.G. If these companies are indeed A.I.G.'s affiliates, the transactions between them may not involve a true transfer of risk and may run afoul of insurance accounting rules.
 The companies drawing scrutiny are Richmond Insurance and Union Excess Reinsurance, reinsurers that, according to regulatory filings, do business solely with A.I.G. Both are registered in Barbados, an offshore tax haven that is loosely regulated. Another offshore insurer that counts A.I.G. as its only customer is Pillar Insurance, also of Barbados.
 Regulators are trying to determine whether the transactions between these companies and A.I.G. were intended to smooth A.I.G.'s earnings, shift some of its troubled assets offshore or circumvent capital requirements.
 Big insurers like A.I.G. typically use reinsurers, many based in Bermuda or outside the United States, to offload some of their risk. But for such transactions to be considered insurance, with all of the accounting and tax benefits that accompany them, they must involve a substantial, genuine transfer of risk to an independent, third party. 
 ''If it's all within the same economic family, then there's not real transfer of risk,'' said Robert E. Hoyt, a professor of risk management and insurance at the University of Georgia's Terry College of Business.
 The company declined to comment about its use of offshore entities yesterday. 
 Shares of A.I.G. fell nearly 3 percent yesterday, after two top executives -- Howard Smith, the chief financial officer, and Christian Milton, the vice president for reinsurance -- were both dismissed for refusing to cooperate with regulators investigating a transaction between A.I.G. and General Re. The stock, which fell $1.70, to $56.20 yesterday, is now down 23 percent since the company disclosed it had received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York attorney general's office. 
 The transactions being investigated involve finite risk, a nontraditional form of reinsurance that can be used to dress up financial statements. Of the offshore entities, regulators are looking in particular at Richmond Insurance, a reinsurer that operates out of A.I.G.'s office on Richmond Road in the Bermuda capital of Hamilton. Richmond executives, including the chief executive J.C.H. Johnson, and the chief underwriting officer, Ralph Rathjen, use A.I.G. e-mail addresses, according to a Bermuda business directory. (Neither of the men returned calls for comment.) Calls to Richmond are answered with, ''American International insurance, may I help you?''
 But A.I.G. does not report Richmond's results, even though Richmond does all of its business with A.I.G. , according to recent filings from ScheduleF.com, a research organization owned by Dowling Partners, an insurance research firm. ScheduleF.com combs through insurers' voluminous filings to state regulators.
 A.I.G. owns 19.9 percent of Richmond, with other unidentified investors, Munich Re reportedly among them, owning the rest. A senior former A.I.G. executive with knowledge of Richmond's operations called Richmond ''a dumping ground.'' 
 Richmond, the former executive said, was where A.I.G. would put certain finite-risk deals, like loss-portfolio transfers, that it had done in A.I.G.'s Global Risk Management unit for other companies. Through the 1990's and up to now, the former executive said, Richmond basically allowed A.I.G. to temporarily hide certain finite-risk policies that were expected to generate losses early in their life.
 A.I.G. expected to make money on those deals over time. But finite-risk transactions tend to initially produce more losses than premiums. As the policies mature, the premium payments outweigh the losses, producing profits for their underwriter, in this case, A.I.G. 
 ''A.I.G. would cede business to Richmond as if it was a reinsurer of A.I.G., when all it was was an alter ego of A.I.G.,'' the former executive said.
 The American International Group was among the first American insurers to set up subsidiaries in Bermuda. Its predecessor company set up a unit on the island in 1947; today, it has five subsidiaries there. 
 In the insurance industry, there are plenty of offshore reinsurance entities, known as captives, with just one customer and one owner. But a reinsurance entity that serves one customer but is not fully owned by it is the exception rather than the rule, according to analysts.
 In the mid-1990's, state insurance regulators raised questions about an A.I.G.-related entity in the Caribbean, a company called Coral Re, registered in Barbados. 
 A.I.G. has always denied having functional control over Coral Re, whose sole client was A.I.G. Coral Re was set up by Goldman Sachs, A.I.G.'s longtime banker, in 1987 with personal friends of Maurice R. Greenberg, the company's chairman who recently stepped down as chief executive, as investors. Richmond was set up the same way and around the same time, according to two former executives of A.I.G. 
 With Coral Re, regulators were concerned that A.I.G. was not really transferring risk to the entity and was thus improperly accounting for its dealings with them, which effectively allowed A.I.G. to write additional premiums out of its insurance lines based in the United States. Coral Re at one point had was owed money from A.I.G. units totaling $1 billion, according to David Schiff, an independent insurance analyst who has studied the company.
 In 1997, after an investigation, Delaware insurance regulators cleared A.I.G. of any wrongdoing with Coral Re, and ordered the entity to mark down $100 million in reinsurance credits. Coral Re's operations were wound down shortly after. The regulators also ordered A.I.G. to disclose to them any similar, future arrangements with offshore reinsurers. 
 It is unclear what A.I.G. has disclosed to various state regulators about its offshore insurance operations. Michael L. Vild, the deputy insurance commissioner for Delaware, said that the agency would not comment on current or planned investigations.
 A 1997 report on Bermuda insurers by the auditing firm Deloitte describes Richmond Insurance as a major finite reinsurer. The report said that while Richmond that year had only 2 percent of the $2.1 billion in capital and surplus of all Bermuda finite reinsurers, it had 12 percent of the $7.7 billion in assets of all Bermuda finite reinsurers, making it second only to Centre Re, a reinsurer that basically invented finite transactions. All of Richmond's premiums were earned on finite deals, the Deloitte report said.
 A.I.G. briefly mentions only Richmond in its 1999 and 2000 annual filings to the S.E.C., but does not provide any details of Richmond's financial position or operations. 
 Union Excess appears even more shadowy than Richmond. The two senior former A.I.G. executives, one of whom was involved in working with Richmond, said that they had never heard of Union Excess.
 According to data compiled from regulators by ScheduleF.com, Richmond had what are known as net recoverables of $665.9 million as of the end of 2003. The term refers to the amount of money that Richmond is due, all from nine A.I.G. subsidiaries, its only source of business. 
 Like Richmond, Union Excess's sole customer is A.I.G. -- in this case, 11 A.I.G. subsidiaries. Union Excess had net recoverables, meaning money owed to it by the A.I.G. units whose reinsurance it handled, of $497.7 million as of the end of 2003, according to ScheduleF.com. 
 That means that together with Richmond, the Barbados reinsurer technically accounts for around $1.2 billion of recoverables as of the end of 2003 -- about a quarter of the money A.I.G. owes offshore reinsurers, a person close to the company said. If regulators find that Richmond and Union Excess are controlled by the A.I.G., the $1.2 billion would be a liability that should be represented on the company's balance sheet. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about an investigation of offshore insurance companies referred incorrectly to the party that is owed money in reinsurance deals between American International Group and several offshore companies. It is A.I.G., not the two offshore companies.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); REINSURANCE (91%); TAX FRAUD (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); EXCESS & SURPLUS LINES INSURANCE (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (75%); ETHICS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%) Insurance; Insurance; Insurance; Tax Evasion ; Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (54%) General Re Corp; American International Group; Richmond Insurance; Union Excess Reinsurance; Pillar Insurance

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: Howard (AIG Exec) Smith; Christian Milton; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BARBADOS (93%); BERMUDA (87%) Barbados

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



473 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Investment Bubble Builds New China

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: YANGSHUO, China 

 BODY:
Nature spent millennia carving the jagged limestone mountains of Guangxi Province into the fanciful forest of stand-alone peaks so prized by ancient painters and modern tourists.
 Ren Ping and his crew of a few dozen migrant workers have been at their jobs only a few months, but the elevated superhighway they are building has already burrowed a path through the prehistoric crags. ''We'll go around this one, but we will have to slice through that one over there,'' Mr. Ren said over the roar of dump trucks pouring cement. ''Drivers on this road will have the most beautiful view in all China.''
 Environmentalists are less enthusiastic. But the highway will link mountainous northern Guangxi to the booming Pearl River delta in the southeast. It is the sort of grand development project that elicits official support and opens checkbooks in China's economy, which some critics say has become dangerously dependent on such state-directed spending. 
 After a road-building campaign unmatched by any country except the United States in the 1950's, China has created an extensive network of multiple-lane highways, complete with landscaped verges and well-equipped rest areas. 
 The Communications Ministry announced in January that it planned to pave a further 53,000 miles of intercity highways and urban ring roads within 30 years at a cost of $250 billion. Total mileage is expected to overtake the American Interstate system, the world's biggest, around 2020.
 The spending has transformed China's landscape, adding roads, bridges, subways and ports -- as well as factories, mines, steel mills and power plants -- that could provide the foundation for double-digit growth far into the future.
 But to an extent that is alarming some Chinese and Western economists, such investment itself is a main driver of China's economy, which grew at a 9.5 percent pace last year. The investment binge, like any bubble, could produce unneeded factories and underused highways and power plants, weakening the country's already shaky financial system.
 ''If China keeps relying on cheap capital to generate growth, sooner or later it will face a major crisis,'' said Xu Xiaonian, an economist at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai. ''Right now, the economy is afflicted by the curse of diminishing returns.''
 China's leadership agrees to an extent. Officials in Beijing have been trying to cut what they see as unneeded investment projects and reduce growth to a more sustainable pace. Yet in 2004, independent experts who examined government statistics say, investment in such projects represented 45 percent of China's gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the economy. 
 Mr. Xu said the economic payoff from these huge investments had fallen sharply. He estimates that 15 years ago, China generated 50 cents of growth for each dollar it invested in fixed assets -- roads, subways, and steel mills and the like. That return has fallen to about 20 cents for each dollar invested, he says.
 While it is not unusual for a fast-developing country to derive a substantial part of its growth from new investment, no other major country has depended so heavily on fixed investment. The United States, which relies mainly on consumer spending to generate growth, invests about 15 percent of its G.D.P. in fixed assets. 
 Japan and South Korea never invested as much as 40 percent in fixed assets. Today, the share is below 30 percent in both countries.
 Senior Chinese officials and most private economists agree that investment rates cannot remain at such levels without setting off high inflation, unneeded capacity and fresh piles of bad bank loans. The question is how much investment must come down and whether the reduction will cause a slump in the broad economy.
 Morris Goldstein and Nicholas R. Lardy, economists at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, wrote in a recent survey that the Chinese investment surge might take a few years to unwind at considerable cost to growth. 
 They said China would have to limit investment to the high 30's as a percentage of the gross domestic product to avoid widespread waste. Yet doing so would probably cause the overall growth rate to dive to perhaps half its current level. ''At the heart of the imbalances in the Chinese economy,'' they wrote, ''is an unsustainable investment boom that has been in the making for at least four years and that will probably take at least several years to undo.'' 
 Communist Party leaders have said that the economy must expand at least 7 percent a year to create jobs for the huge numbers of urban and rural laborers who would otherwise be unemployed. They worry deeply about slowdowns that could lead to social unrest and potentially weaken the party's rule.
 Yet top officials also worry about the investment binge. Ma Kai, the country's leading day-to-day economic planner, said at the nation's annual legislative meeting in Beijing that government efforts to control investment would intensify.
 ''As soon as we make progress addressing overinvestment in one area, it crops up in another area,'' he said, citing new bubbles in power generating and real estate.
 Mr. Ma said the government would aim to slow the increase in overall investment spending to 16 percent this year from 27 percent in 2004. Investment would remain the main driver of growth. Economists say such a controlled slowdown is the only way to ease the economy off its dependence on new capital injections without risking a crash.
 Arthur R. Kroeber, editor of The China Economic Review, a widely read academic business monthly based in Hong Kong, argues that China can maintain high levels of investment as industrialization spreads inland from the coastal cities. Modernization will take much more time in China than it did elsewhere in East Asia, meaning that government-directed financing could play a big role far into the future, he said.
 Officials in Guangxi hope that a new network of expressways will attract companies and stimulate the economy there. Though the province is just west of the fast-growing economic center of Guangdong, it remains one of China's poorest.
 They plan to open 146 miles of expressways this year with total highway spending reaching $1.6 billion.
 Workers are now blasting a major highway through rocky hillsides and terraced sugar cane fields to link the provincial capital of Nanning to Vietnam in the south. The highway towers 20 feet over sparsely populated villages in its shadow. The elevation prevents peasants and their water buffalo from crossing the tarmac. On the Vietnam side of the border, trucks still crowd a two-lane country road shared with farmers.
 Construction also began recently on the expressway linking Guilin to Guangzhou. It traverses a hauntingly beautiful mountain range near Yangshuo, one of the country's most popular tourist destinations.
 ''It is an absolutely perfect model of karst mountains, and this road goes right through the middle,'' said Wang Yingke of the Institute of Karst Geology, part of the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences.
 Mr. Wang and several other scholars petitioned the authorities to have the road redirected, to no avail. ''They consider the economic factors but nothing else,'' he said.
 Jiang Jihong, an official of the Communications Bureau of the Guangxi government, said local officials took the environment into consideration and adjusted the route to minimize the geological impact. But she said the highway was vital for the area's overall development.
 Yet some experts say that China's poor inland provinces may need good schools and affordable health care more than elevated expressways.
 Mr. Xu of the China Europe International Business School said some rural road projects were examples of overeager spending favored by local officials intent on their share of state-backed financing. Despite Beijing's vow to wean the economy from its dependence on such investment, the level has increased, he said, adding, ''There is an addiction to this style of economic management that may be very difficult to overcome.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction workers building a foundation for a section of a new expressway near Guilin in southern China. (Photo by Mark Ralston for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Road building in the Lijiang River scenic area near Guilin. The region is known for its limestone peaks. (Photo by Mark Ralston for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''A Sustainable Pace?''One significant factor in China's growth in recent years has been an infusion of money to build roads, bridges, office towers, factories and power plants. No other country invests as much of its resources in such fixed assets, and some economists say China has become dangerously dependent on an investment boom that cannot be sustained.Chart tracks Investment as a percentage of gross domestic product for China, India, Japan, Russian Federation and the United States, since 1992.(Source by World Development Indicators, World Bank)Map of China shows the location of Yangshuo: Building has started near Yangshuo, a prime tourist destination. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); POWER PLANTS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TRENDS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); STATISTICS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; Factories and Industrial Plants; Roads and Traffic; Electric Light and Power; Finances

PERSON: Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) GUANGXI, CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



474 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Globalization of Wine, a Plea for Its Individuality and Expression of History

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
Wine is more than a beverage. It is, proverbially, the soul of a meal and, in some accounts, the very cornerstone of civilization, which is one of the reasons I prefer beer. Innocent talk of noses and finishes, therefore, has a way of drifting toward headier matters. Intoxicated though he is by the rolling, hilly landscapes of Napa, Tuscany and Languedoc, Jonathan Nossiter, in his new documentary, ''Mondovino,'' is more interested in the sobering facts of global marketing, economic competition and cultural imperialism. 
 As it has made its way across Europe (after being shown at the Cannes Film Festival last spring), ''Mondovino'' has trailed controversy behind it, and the debate is likely to continue now that it has arrived in this country. Part of what it is about, after all, is the cultural tension between the new world and the old -- between crusty, fatalistic French peasants and smooth-faced, forward-looking Californians. In many ways, the battle being played out in the vineyards -- between European (but especially French) particularism and a global consumerism driven by American ideas about marketing and brand awareness -- echoes other, similar skirmishes; for instance, about movies themselves. At times, the quarrel pitting partisans of ''terroir'' -- that mysterious sensory quality by which wine supposedly evokes the climate and history of its place of origin -- against the proponents of an equally mysterious process called micro-oxygenation, recalls the rhetorical warfare of the French ''cinema des auteurs'' against the blockbuster mentality of Hollywood.
 But in wine, as in movies, things are not so black (or do I mean red?) and white. Some of the most energetic proponents of vino-globalization (mondovinismo?) are French, many of them concentrated in Bordeaux. One of the film's most flamboyant figures -- and perhaps its designated villain -- is Michel Rolland, a fast-moving consultant who motors around the countryside in a chauffeured sedan, cigarillo and cellphone in hand, preaching the gospel of new oak and big flavor. Among his allies are the Mondavi family of California and the well-known wine critic Robert Parker, whose ratings allegedly have the power to propel some wines to international prestige.
 Arrayed against these avatars of jet-set, high-end wine marketing are stubborn, old-style growers like Hubert de Montille, a marvelously cranky philosopher of the grape, and Aime Guibert, who declares that ''wine is dead'' but nonetheless revels in his successful crusade to prevent the Mondavis from developing some land near his vineyards. 
 Mr. Nossiter covers a lot of ground, roaming from Bordeaux to Napa, from Sardinia to South America. He is an enthusiastic interviewer, proficient in several languages and able to put people at ease with his air of smiling, unassuming curiosity. His editing style is less ingratiating, though, as he repeats the same points over and over and stacks the deck to suit his political assumptions. One of his favorite ploys is to scan the walls behind his interlocutors' heads for an incriminating detail, which usually takes the form of a signed picture of Ronald Reagan. 
 The ideological subtext of ''Mondovino'' is perhaps more complex than Mr. Nossiter would allow, but there is no doubt that wine talk can become pretty heated. Mr. Parker, who views himself as a plain-spoken American democrat, is among the least inflammatory. Others indulge in unapologetic hyperbole. ''It's not the traditionalists versus the modernists,'' says Neal Rosenthal, a New York importer who decries the ''Napaization'' of the world's vintages. ''It's the collaborators against the resistance.'' Not to be outdone, a Bordeaux executive refers to Mr. Rosenthal's ilk as ''ayatollahs of terroir.'' Tim Mondavi makes much of the fact that the mayor who stopped the Mondavi family's project in Mr. Guibert's neighborhood was a Communist. He does not mention that the man's predecessor, who supported the project, was a Socialist. The glorious history of the French left, it seems, has come to this: a Socialist is someone who supports transnational investment, while a Communist intervenes to protect the interests of landowners. Vive la difference. 
 Mr. Nossiter's presentation takes at face value Mr. de Montille and Mr. Guibert's view that they represent authenticity and tradition against crass consumerism, and it is possible to sympathize without being entirely persuaded. An interview with Michael Broadbent, a London auctioneer with a chalk-striped suit and an accent out of P.G. Wodehouse, recalls that the prestige of first-growth French wine arose in an earlier era of marketing and international trade, albeit one that was much more restricted. One of the unexamined ironies of this smart, sincere and sloppy film is its assumption that the tastes of the imperial British aristocracy of the 19th century were not only superior to those of the 21st-century American middle class but also friendlier to the enduring values of civilization. I don't know much about wine, but to me that leaves a funny aftertaste.
 ''Mondovino'' is rated PG-13 (Parental guidance suggested), for strong language and scenes of wine drinking.

'Mondovino'
Opens today in Manhattan.

Directed and edited by Jonathan Nossiter; in English, French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish, with English subtitles; director of photography, Mr. Nossiter; produced by Mr. Nossiter and Emmanuel Giraud; released by ThinkFilm. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 131 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Michel Rolland, Battista and Lina Columbu, Aime Guibert, Robert Parker, Neal Rosenthal, Robert Mondavi, Margrit Mondavi, Michael Mondavi and Tim Mondavi.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michel Rolland, a wine consultant, is one of the more flamboyant figures in the documentary ''Mondovino.'' (Photo by ThinkFilm) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FILM (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (87%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); BRANDING (70%); AWARENESS MARKETING (70%); FESTIVALS (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: A O Scott; Jonathan Nossiter

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



475 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: More Help Wanted: Older Workers Please Apply

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
In a push to recruit older workers, Home Depot, the hardware chain, now offers ''snowbird specials'' -- winter work in Florida and summers in Maine. 
 Borders bookstores lure retired teachers to sales jobs with discounts and the promise of reading and discussion groups. Pitney Bowes, the business services company, pays tuition for courses in computer programming as well as spare-time skills like golf and flower arranging. 
 After years of encouraging workers to take early retirement as a way to cut jobs, a growing number of companies are hunting for older workers because they have lower turnover rates and, in many cases, better work performance. 
 Some companies like Wal-Mart are making their pitches at senior centers and others are sending company brochures to churches and community libraries and posting their attractions on Web sites. 
 AARP, the advocacy group for older people, recently put on its Web site links to 13 ''featured employers'' -- including MetLife, Pitney Bowes, Borders, Home Depot, Principal Financial and Walgreens -- that are recruiting older workers with offers of health benefits, training and flexible work schedules. More than 71,000 people have used the Web site this month to seek job information. 
 At Home Depot, Ed Wright, 71, a retired electrical contractor, works the early shift from October to May in the electrical products department at the store in Lake Wales, Fla. Then, when the weather changes, he heads north and works part time from June to September in the Home Depot in Tullytown, Pa. 
 ''I had heard you could do that, so I applied for a job here in Florida,'' he said. ''It's the best of both worlds.'' Mr. Wright is not the only north-south commuter at the Lake Wales store. He said he had colleagues who went to Maine, Connecticut and Colorado in the summer. 
 Cindy Milburn, senior director of staffing at Home Depot, said the company was looking to older workers to fill a labor shortage a decade from now. ''We wanted to plant seeds early on,'' she said, to build relationships with groups like AARP and government agencies that help people, including military retirees, find jobs.
 Conventional wisdom has long held that workers become more costly as they grow older, with more medical problems and more missed workdays. But ''overall costs are not much different based on the age of employees,'' said Dan Smith, senior vice president for human resources at the Borders Group. ''Training and recruitment costs are much lower than for younger workers. It all evens out.'' 
 Mr. Smith said nearly 16 percent of Borders's current 32,000 employees were 50 or older, compared with only 6 percent six years ago.
 For one thing, the older workers are much less likely to depart after a few years. The turnover rate for employees 50 and older was one-tenth that of workers under 30, according to Mr. Smith. ''Costs of training, recruitment and learning the job routine,'' he said, ''are all much lower than for younger workers.'' 
 That is no small matter, especially in retailing, where 60 percent annual turnover, not counting part-time help, is the norm for specialty stores, according to the National Retail Federation, an industry trade group. If part-timers and temporary workers are covered, the turnover rate soars to 110 percent. (The group's survey did not cover department stores and outlet stores.)
 Even with its loyal older people and a low turnover rate by retailing standards, Home Depot, which has 325,000 employees, hires 160,000 people each year, including part-time and seasonal workers and 20,000 for new jobs as the company adds stores, Ms. Milburn said. 
 Eileen Applebaum, a labor economist at Rutgers University, said the cost of turnover per worker was $2,335, on average, in a survey of representative California employers last year conducted by researchers at Rutgers and U.C.L.A. Simply holding down the turnover rate could mean annual savings in the millions of dollars for large employers.
 The recruitment efforts for the elderly are reaching a willing audience, as more older people seek work because they need extra cash and health benefits and sometimes because they miss having a 9-to-5 routine with other workers.
 In the 65-to-69 age group, ''about one-third of men and almost one-fourth of women were working in 2004,'' said Joseph F. Quinn, a labor economist and dean at Boston College. ''Already, there has been a dramatic change since the mid-1980's in the labor force participation of older workers.'' 
 The percentage of men in that age group still working rose to 33 percent in 2004 from 27 percent in 1994; the percentage of women in that age group working rose to 23 percent from 18 percent. According to AARP, almost one in three workers will be 50 or older within five years. 
 Larry Gershell, 72, for example, was a marketing executive when he retired at 65 after 40 years in book publishing. Within a year, he found a full-time job selling books at a Borders store in Midtown Manhattan. 
 ''I like books; I like to read; I like to know what's going on,'' he said. ''I love talking to mothers. I tell them not to worry about their kids who read comic books.'' 
 He also likes the relaxed atmosphere. ''It's not stressful,'' he said. ''No pain in the belly anymore. When I got home from my office, my wife used to say 'you want to kick the dog.' But we didn't have a dog.'' Now he takes home $30 worth of free books every month, a benefit he finds ''marvelous, '' and he also gets Borders's health benefits. 
 At Wal-Mart, which has 220,000 employees 55 and older, store officials are often sent on recruiting missions to churches, senior centers and meetings of local AARP chapters, said Sarah Clark, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman.
 Older workers are still mostly in sales, office work and management, according to an analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data by Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. 
 But at Pitney Bowes, a manufacturing company that is also big in business services, almost 1 in 4 employees is over 50. 
 The company is ''very aware of the demographic trends,'' said Bruce Nolop, Pitney's chief financial officer. ''It will be very essential to appeal to the older portion of the work force.'' 
 Terry Dendy, 56, a large-format preparation-press operator, was recently hired at the company's digital imaging center in Manhattan. Mr. Dendy said he worried about his age when he looked for work after his former employer closed. ''But I had friends in my age category at Pitney Bowes and they told me I should apply,'' he said. ''I did, and after that there was no problem.''
 These recruiting successes, of course, also reflect economic realities as dwindling company-subsidized health coverage for retirees and inadequate savings and pensions force many older people to stay on their jobs or look for other work. Still, as baby boomers age, many are eager to work for benefits beyond the paycheck. 
 ''They don't want to go fishing; they want to stay sharp,'' said Jeanne Benoit, principal director of human resources at the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, a military research contractor in Cambridge, Mass., that creates prototypes for aerospace projects. 
 In industries with labor shortages, like nursing, older workers already have an edge. Nurses, who typically retire at 53, are being recruited at high rates, said Peter Buerhaus, associate dean of the school of nursing at Vanderbilt University. ''They are probably the fastest-aging work force in the country.''
 In 2002 and 2003, hospitals raised pay scales and hired 130,000 nurses over age 50, which made up more than 70 percent of the 185,000 total hired in those two years, Mr. Buerhaus said.
 Many of those nurses may well agree with Ellen Van Valen, 67, a Home Depot manager, who says that age has little do with the desire to work. 
 Ms. Van Valen, who is assistant manager for internal operations at the company's store in Stratford, Conn., supervises a group that includes five workers in their 60's. 
 ''The older folks seem to catch on a lot quicker,'' she said. ''They're used to life in general.'' 
 Ms. Van Valen plans to work full time until she is 75. ''Every day is a learning process,'' she said. ''Hey, I could become a store manager down the road, but not right now.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed Wright, 71, a retired electrical contractor, left, works at Home Depot in Lake Wales, Fla., in the winter and then moves north to Tullytown, Pa. Ellen Van Valen, 67, right, a Home Depot manager, says age has little do with the desire to work: ''The older folks seem to catch on a lot quicker.'' (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)
(Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. C3)
 Larry Gershell, 72, was a marketing executive until he retired at 65. He now helps customers like Steve Preefar at a Borders in Manhattan. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. A1)Graph: ''Still Working for a Living''The percentage of older Americans in the work force has risen.Graph tracks labor force participation rates, by sex and age since 1994.(Source by Analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data by Joseph Quinn, Boston College)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); FLEXTIME (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); SALES FORCE (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); WEB SITES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (65%) Labor; Age, Chronological; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion; Aged; Computers and the Internet; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Fringe Benefits ; Labor

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (96%); HOME DEPOT INC (95%); PITNEY BOWES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BOSTON COLLEGE (59%) Aarp

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); PBI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (96%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (96%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (58%)

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



476 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Is Booming Since 9/11, at Least for the Well-Off

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: KARACHI, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Umar Sheikh, 31, British-born, New York-trained and married to a woman from New Jersey, long dreamed of running his own restaurant. London was too expensive. New York was too risky. Karachi seemed just right.
 His gamble, in this restive port city better known for its religious radicals than its ravioli, has worked so far. Limoncello, Mr. Sheikh's cozy Italian-inspired fine dining spot with lemon-colored walls and a kebab-free menu that features arugula and Norwegian salmon, is thriving. 
 Its success reflects an unexpected post-Sept. 11 boon: prompted by a mix of government policy, serendipity and changing global tides brought on by the American campaign against terrorism, Pakistan's economy is booming. The well-off, at least, are living extremely well.
 In its first two months, Limoncello has brought in revenue that Mr. Sheikh did not expect for several more. Already, three investors have offered to pitch in on his next venture.
 One recent Friday night, nearly all of the tables were occupied. Dinner for four -- not including wine, since alcohol is banned at public accommodations -- came to $70, substantially more than a Karachi housemaid's monthly salary.
 ''I'm getting a lot of corporate heads, a lot of nouveau riche, people who come from abroad who are not necessarily wealthy but are educated about cuisine,'' said Mr. Sheikh, the son of Pakistani immigrants to Britain. ''People want high-end products.''
 The country's economy grew 6.4 percent during the last fiscal year, and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz, a former Citibank executive, projects 8 percent annual growth in two years' time. 
 ''Pakistan is a country today that has gone through a very intensive five-year reform,'' Mr. Aziz said in an interview in the capital, Islamabad. ''We are seeing the results.''
 There are many factors behind the boom. Remittances that Pakistani expatriates once sent home through informal banking channels are now landing in the banks, lifting the country's foreign reserves to $12.7 billion a year, compared with $1 billion in 2001. 
 As an important ally of the United States, Pakistan has been able to slash its external debts. In the last five years, export earnings have doubled to more than $13 billion, mostly from textiles, according to the State Bank of Pakistan. ''There's a lot of confidence in Pakistan's economy,'' said Ishrat Husain, the state bank chief.
 Wealthy expatriates jittery about their futures in the United States and Europe since Sept. 11, 2001, have set aside nest eggs back home or returned. The Karachi stock market has soared. The real estate market has exploded. A residential plot that Mr. Sheikh bought two years ago in his mother's native Lahore has tripled in value.
 ''People are feeling more optimistic,'' Muhammad Yasin Lakhani, chairman of the Karachi Stock Exchange, said in a recent interview. ''People want to put their money in a growing economy any day rather than in a developed economy.''
 Mr. Lakhani had cause for optimism. That morning, the stock exchange had jumped a record 295 points. Its market capitalization had reached $40 billion, up from $5 billion in 1998. Much of the stock market's rise, analysts say, is a result of the government's moves to privatize state-owned assets.
 The big question now is whether such impressive growth can lift a majority of Pakistanis. Poverty grew steadily in the late 1990's, according to the last government study, conducted four years ago. In 2001, 32 percent of Pakistanis lived below the poverty line. That remains the most widely cited and reliable barometer of poverty.
 A smaller survey done in 2004, Prime Minister Aziz said, showed a decline in poverty, but people outside the government noted that the survey was smaller in scale and therefore not comparable to the earlier studies. ''The trickle-down effect has not really taken place,'' Mr. Lakhani said.
 In a working-class enclave pressed against one of Karachi's high-toned neighborhoods, small girls filled up big buckets of water from a neighbor's tap and heaved it home on their shoulders. Only some houses here are connected to the city water supply. Those who can get water from their neighbors do so; others pay to have it trucked in.
 It is not that people here are unaware of Pakistan's economic boom. ''What's the change for us?'' said a laconic Ishtiaq Malik, 28. ''The rent has increased. The petrol price has increased. The electricity bill has increased.''
 Like many of his neighbors in the crowded slum of winding muddy alleys, Mr. Malik came from a village in rural Punjab to make a living in the city. Today, as a gardener, he fetches about $85 a month. After rent and food and electric bill, he says, there is not much left to send home to his parents, landless peasants back in the village.
 Kaneez Gazar, a housemaid in her 40's who came to Karachi to escape the grinding poverty of her own village, offered a smile when asked about her country's economic growth. ''We earn, we eat,'' is how she put it.
 Between her own earnings and those of her two daughters, also housemaids, the family brings in about $100 a month. Half of that goes to rent. The prices of sugar and butter have gone up. She must buy water from a private tanker. With her heart ailment and her daughter's chronic cough, there are medical bills to pay. Hanging over her head is a $420 debt for an older daughter's wedding.
 Still, she says, life in Karachi has meant a measure of dignity. ''At least I'm feeding myself,'' she said. ''At least we get clothes and shoes.''
 It is Pakistan's deeply stratified society that makes some analysts skeptical of how and when the spoils at the top will filter down to those among the 150 million Pakistanis who still barely scrape by. A study last December by the Social Policy and Development Center, a Karachi-based research institute, reported that of every rupee of economic growth, 34 percent went to the richest 10 percent of the population, and only 3 percent to the poorest 10 percent.
 It is Pakistanis like Limoncello's owner, Mr. Sheikh, who have buoyed and exploited their country's economic boom. Some of it, he reckons, has been driven by overseas Pakistanis' concerns about their futures in the United States and Europe. Some of it, as in his case, was driven by opportunity: common sense told him there was money to be made here.
 In the last few years, his father-in-law returned and bought up property across the country. A friend from London opened a call center. A woman who runs a bakery in London is now opening a patisserie, called Truffles, down the street. 
 Recalling those who had gone abroad before, Mr. Sheikh said, ''There were all kinds of people, of all kinds of mentality, who were leaving and taking their money with them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Karachi, Pakistan's main port, is having a renaissance. Prices on the Karachi Stock Exchange have soared.
Drinking water is brought to some wealthy neighborhoods in Karachi, but many fear that development funds are not reaching the poor.
 Umar Sheikh, center, born in Britain and raised in New York, has been far more successful with his Italian restaurant than he had hoped. (Photographs by Scott Eells for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); IMMIGRATION (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); EXPORT TRADE (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism

COMPANY: STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: Somini Sengupta; Shaukat (Prime Min) Aziz

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



477 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco's Goldilocks Market

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Once this city's largest office landlord, the privately owned Shorenstein Company has sold its interests in four properties over the last 18 months, including its flagship Bank of America Center, which is often described as the financial district's best address.
 Disposing of a substantial portion of its office portfolio here is consistent with Shorenstein's new strategy as it evolves from a local business to a company that invests in commercial real estate throughout the country.
 The company is also taking advantage of an investment market that seems surprisingly feverish for a city that has yet to recover from the collapse of the dot-com industry. 
 ''Prices are staggeringly high relative to the returns and the underlying fundamentals,'' said Douglas W. Shorenstein, the chief executive of his family business, in an interview in his 49th-floor corner office at the Bank of America Center overlooking San Francisco Bay. ''If somebody is willing to pay a lot more than I would pay, then we're a seller.'' 
 Shorenstein's role as the city's top landlord has now been assumed by Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest owner of office real estate. But Equity Office has put five of its buildings here on the market, in the hope of either selling them outright or forming joint ventures with other investors. 
 Nearly $2 billion worth of prime office buildings changed hands in 2004, exceeding the 1998 record of $1.92 billion, with some properties drawing as many as two dozen bids. The average price for all buildings in the central business district was $304 a square foot last year, up from $235 a square foot in 2003, according to Reis Inc., a New York research firm. 
 Several buildings have traded for $400 a square foot or more, including 555 California Street, which is no longer the national headquarters of Bank of America but has a roster of blue-chip tenants, including Goldman Sachs.
 The 52-story reddish-brown granite tower and adjacent buildings were bought by a group of New York investors, led by Mark Karasick and David Werner, for $825 million, or about $487 for each rentable square foot. Mr. Shorenstein's father, Walter, acquired the building from the bank in 1985 and later sold a half interest back to the bank.
 The investment market here is beginning to resemble that of Washington, where the average trading price last year was $363 a square foot, according to Cassidy & Pinkard, a local real estate services company. But the average vacancy rate in Washington was just 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year.
 In this city, by contrast, some brokers estimate that the top buildings have a vacancy rate of 19 percent, with most of the empty space on the lower floors. Employment has only just begun growing slowly after four years of job losses. Employment is expected to increase 1.2 percent this year, said Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Economy.com. 
 The spike in commercial real estate prices here has left many real estate specialists scratching their heads. Only two years ago, Tishman Speyer Properties was forced to sell Market Center, two buildings on Market Street that were 83 percent vacant, for $79.5 million, less than half of the $189 million it had paid for the complex in 1999.
 For the last year and a half, landlords in San Francisco have gained more new tenants than they have lost, but new leases are being signed at 1997 levels, with owners paying $35 or more a square foot to help with remodeling. 
 ''We're still seeing $50 worth of work and a year's worth of free rent,'' said Jacque Ducharme, a vice chairman at Studley, a real estate firm that represents tenants.
 Although rents for the more desirable space on higher floors are slowly inching up -- sometimes reaching $40 a square foot -- space below is getting $25 to $30. On average, rents are 45.4 percent of what they were at their peak in 2000, according to Moody's Investors Service.
 ''What we are seeing is a further widening of the spread between rents for view space and nonview space,'' said Michael van Konynenburg, the chief executive of Secured Capital, which has represented landlords in several recent high-priced sales.
 Jeanne R. Myerson, the chief executive of the Swig Company, a private company based in San Francisco that has real estate holdings across the country, has been looking for properties to buy here. But she said that the high prices suggest that many buyers are overly optimistic that there will be enough job growth to drive up rents. ''It's hard to make the numbers work on a lot of the buildings right now,'' she said.
 This is hardly the only real estate market currently attractive to investors, in light of low interest rates, the sluggish stock market and the widespread availability of cheap capital. With a lack of alternative investment vehicles, many people are willing to accept much lower initial returns than they were a few years ago, hoping for greater cash flow in the future. 
 Steel and concrete prices have been rising, adding to the cost of developing new buildings so that any price that is safely below the so-called replacement cost -- as much as $450 a square foot in this city -- can look like a good deal.
 In a report issued last week, however, Moody's said the city is the riskiest major office market in the country. The ratings agency warned that many tenants here were still paying high rents negotiated during the technology boom and would expect a sharp reduction when their leases expire. 
 ''The point is that rents could be stable for the next three years, and then cash flow could decline materially,'' said Sally Gordon, a vice president and senior credit officer. ''We're alerting people to the fact that you might see an increase in defaults.''
 Few real estate specialists doubt that this city will rebound in the long run, both because it appeals to highly educated people willing to make sacrifices to live here and because it is hard to build here. An initiative approved in 1986 limits commercial high-rise construction to 875,000 square feet a year. 
 In fact, apart from a jazzy federal building rising at Seventh and Mission Streets, no office buildings are currently under construction, although the city is awash in residential projects and several lower-grade office buildings are being converted into condominiums. Owners with lots authorized for commercial construction say they will not build until they can charge $65 a square foot annually for rent, utilities and services. 
 No longer the financial capital it once was, this city now relies mainly on smaller tenants -- advertising agencies, boutique law firms and hedge funds -- to fill its office towers. Last year, three-quarters of the companies that signed new leases took 6,500 square feet or less, according to Newmark Pacific, a real estate services company here. 
 Unlike the corporate tenants of the past, who were willing to put their back-office employees on lower floors, many smaller businesses insist on giving everyone access to a view, making it hard to find takers for much of the ordinary space, said Jim Sullivan, an analyst at Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif.
 Because of the growing premium paid for view space, a current owner of Market Center, Divco West Properties, a real estate firm based in Palo Alto, said it was not in a rush to lease the top floors of the building, which is now more than half full. ''We're holding out for better rents on the upper floors,'' said Stephen J. Pilch, the chief operating officer.
 Last year, the city's only sizable new tenant was Gymboree, a children's clothing retailer, which relocated its offices from Burlingame, Calif., to a new building at 500 Howard Street, south of Market Street. The building is in a once-seedy neighborhood, sometimes known as SoMa, that blossomed with new office buildings during the technology boom. 
 In moving to the city, Gymboree sublet space from Sun Microsystems, the building's sole tenant. Though this was a record deal in terms of price per square foot, Monica Finnegan, a managing principal of Newmark Pacific, said it was an aberration because Sun Microsystems had signed an unusually long lease, giving the new owner an assured income stream for the next decade. In 2003, Equity Office Properties sold 500 Howard to the Utah State Retirement System and Cottonwood Partners, a private investment firm, for $119.4 million, or $512 a square foot.
 Equity Office, which has withdrawn from markets like Philadelphia, is not giving up on this city, although it wants to limit its holdings to properties it considers strategic, especially those with great views, said Jeffrey L. Johnson, the chief investment officer. 
 But Kevin Brennan, a senior vice president at the Staubach Company, which represents tenants, said that the sell-off by Shorenstein and Equity Office should serve as a warning to other potential investors. ''We don't see where the market is going to be tightening anytime soon,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas W. Shorenstein, the chief executive of his family business, sold his company's interest in the Bank of America Center and three other properties in San Francisco in the last 18 months. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); SHORENSTEIN CO (91%); REIS INC (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); REIS (NASDAQ) (65%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



478 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: More High-Rises Sure to Result From Bidding Over Railyards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Now that the bids have been submitted for the West Side railyards, two things have become clear: The regional transit system will make far more money as a result of the auction for the site than it would have from the Jets' original proposal for a football stadium alone. And to pay the higher cost, whoever wins the auction will have to build far more high-rise construction along the Hudson than city planners ever intended.
 To pay for their new $720 million bid, the Jets and their new development partners have proposed building 4,400 housing units on the West Side, in addition to the nearly 14,000 apartments the city originally envisioned in a West Side rezoning completed in January. Cablevision, which submitted the other major bid, would build 5,800 new housing units. In total, either bid would produce more apartments for the neighborhood than now exist in Co-op City, the sprawling Bronx enclave of 15,372 apartments that is home to 50,000 people. 
 In combination with the recently completed rezoning of the 42-block area for office skyscrapers and apartment towers, the amount of projected commercial development envisioned in either bid would be greater than all the office space in downtown Denver or downtown Cleveland.
 Elliott Sclar, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, said he thought the proposals had gone overboard, and he predicted that the economy would not sustain thousands of expensive new apartments and dozens of skyscrapers.
 ''There's a presumption that Manhattan Island will become a monoculture, like the coffee plantations in South America,'' Mr. Sclar said. ''But instead of coffee, we're building condominiums and office towers. The strength of New York has always been in the diversity of its land use.'' 
 Only a few weeks ago, city officials were the ones making the argument that there was too much density in Cablevision's plans, saying the neighborhood could not sustain the additional housing. But in a sharp turnabout, stadium proponents at City Hall and in the real estate industry have now been forced into the high-rise construction business, if only to compete at the same financial level as Cablevision.
 The railyards are owned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which had been negotiating for a year with the Jets when Cablevision suddenly offered $600 million for the property and the construction of a platform over the yards -- $500 million more than the team had offered. Cablevision's bid required that the property be rezoned for housing.
 Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of the transportation authority, threw open the bidding, saying it was important to get top dollar for the property because the authority was facing fare increases and service cuts.
 Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, who helped the Jets raise their bid for the development rights by bringing in a group of six residential developers, said his plan was a challenge.
 ''I think this is going to bring out the critics,'' he said. ''We'll see if they're willing to let it be upzoned so that the M.T.A. can get top value for the property.''
 The Jets themselves are now offering $280 million for the development rights over the railyard. If the city agrees to rezone the 13-acre parcel, six developers have agreed to buy the unused development rights for $440 million. In all likelihood, they would transfer those rights to blocks north and east of the stadium -- which the Jets envision being built between 11th and 12th Avenues from 30th to 33rd Streets -- so that they could build bigger buildings than would ordinarily be allowed, and the additional 4,400 apartments.
 But that would require yet another trip through the city's land-use review process, an environmental review and approval by the City Council, which could take a year or longer.
 On Monday, Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden and views the stadium as competition, unveiled its plan for a mixed-used development over the railyards that would include roughly 5,800 new apartments, a 750-room hotel, a five-acre park, a grade school, stores and an arts center. This plan would also entail rezoning the railyards, but unlike the Jets' proposal it would not require a permit to transfer unused development rights elsewhere.
 So far, Cablevision has refused to release the dollar amount of its bid. But one executive who has seen the offer said it exceeded the company's original $600 million bid. The transportation authority said yesterday that it would release the bids next week if the prospective buyers did not do it themselves.
 Neighborhood advocates, who might otherwise be expected to oppose such large amounts of high-rise growth, have reluctantly accepted the possibility as an alternative to the stadium proposal.
 ''The Cablevision plan is better than a stadium,'' said Councilwoman Christine Quinn, who represents the area, ''but it's still more development than we would've wanted in a perfect world.''
 Some community groups have also warily embraced the Cablevision proposal. Walter Mankoff, chairman of Community Board 4, which includes the Far West Side, said the Cablevision plan was more or less in keeping with alternative proposals for residential development atop the yards. The stadium, he said, would be an ''environmental disaster.''
 Council Speaker Gifford Miller, a Democratic mayoral candidate who opposes the stadium, has said that he plans to introduce a proposal to rezone the yards in keeping with Cablevision's plans, so the M.T.A. can get the highest possible price for the development rights. But yesterday Mr. Miller was antagonistic to a rezoning that might help the Jets. 
 That sparked a retort from the Jets.
 ''Since Speaker Miller has made it very clear that he favors rezoning the site for whatever is in the best interests of the M.T.A. and New Yorkers,'' said Marissa Shorenstein, a spokeswoman for the Jets, ''we are confident he will follow through after the decision is made.''
 The entire swirl of events and turnabouts has left John Fisher, a member of the West Side Coalition, a bit dizzy. Mr. Fisher opposes all the rezoning proposals and the stadium. He loves the relatively low-scale neighborhood of tenements, factories, warehouses and offices, and worries about it resembling the Midtown skyscraper canyons.
 ''It's unfortunate that this whole thing has been put out as either the Jets or Cablevision,'' he said. ''We've lost sight of reality. The housing bubble will burst at some point.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the development proposed by Cablevision for the West Side railyards is depicted in a rendering looking toward the northwest. (Photo by Cablevision)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ZONING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); COFFEE FARMING (64%); COFFEE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



479 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plunge As Fed Stirs Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks and bonds fell sharply yesterday and interest rates rose after the Federal Reserve said that inflation pressures had increased in the last few months. The dollar rallied on the anticipation of higher interest rates to curb price increases.
 ''The Fed acknowledged the inflation concerns that have been driving up bond yields in the last month,'' said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP. He was referring to the recent surge in oil prices and the rise in February producer prices, which was higher than expected. 
 The three main stock market gauges dropped 0.9 percent or more, with the Nasdaq composite index now down 8.6 percent for the year, a new 2005 low. The Dow Jones industrial average, off 2.9 percent for the year, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, off 3.3 percent for the year, are both within striking distance of the 2005 lows they reached in January. 
 ''As long as energy prices remain elevated, they will keep a level of fear in the market,'' said Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank. ''So equities are more likely to move sideways.''
 In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 4.64 percent. That is higher than it was on June 30, when Fed officials made the first of their seven quarter-point rate increases in their short-term interest rate benchmark, the federal funds rate. (Prices and yields move in opposite directions.) 
 The seventh quarter-point increase came yesterday, but was overshadowed by the inflation language in the statement.
 ''They are heightening inflation worries and reminding you that if the inflation picture changes, their policy would change,'' said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J.P. Morgan. A policy change could mean rate increases of more than a quarter-point in the future. 
 Although the Fed statement kept previous references to a ''measured'' pace of rate increases, which has been interpreted as a series of quarter-point jumps, Mr. Crandall said that the Fed, nonetheless, moved away from that commitment yesterday. 
 The Fed, he said, ''didn't explicitly signal it was planning a half-point rate increase in the upcoming meetings, but it left the door open to that if there are more disappointments on inflation.''
 As for the dollar, it rose 0.8 percent against the euro and 0.5 percent against the yen, bolstered by the Fed announcement at 2:15 p.m. The dollar rallied on the belief that higher interest rates here will attract foreign investors to the bond market. The euro was valued at $1.3071, down from $1.3173 Monday, while the dollar was worth 105.57 yen, up from 105.04. 
 In a stock market already stymied by higher crude oil prices, the Fed's comments amounted to two doses of bad news: one that inflation, which erodes the value of future earnings, is now a headline concern for the central bank, and, two, that the antidote is higher interest rates, a cure that Fed officials went out of their way to say they were ready to administer.
 Mr. Jaffrey said that the ability of companies to raise prices, which Fed officials referred to in their statement, should be a positive for stocks, because higher prices can translate into higher corporate earnings.
 But he said that it appears that the threat of inflation will lower the overall attractiveness of stocks because it will raise the valuation of the overall market, making it look more expensive for the risk.
 Investing in stocks will be harder now, he said, because to do well investors have to be much better pickers of companies. 
 For bonds, the threat of higher rates from policy makers and inflation was also a double negative dose. But longer-term rates are still lower at this point in a cycle of Fed rate increases than would be expected.
 While the 10-year yield, at 4.64 percent, is higher than the 4.58 on June 30, Fed policy makers have pushed up short-term rates by 1.75 percentage points since then. And, normally, longer-term yields would be expected to be higher than they are now.
 Despite the sell-off yesterday, the Fed statement could be seen as relatively positive for the longer term, because it re-emphasized the central bank's pledge to keep inflation in check. 
 Mr. Crandall of Wrightson said the added emphasis was found by linking a sentence that has been in the Fed statement for months with a new one.
 For many meetings, Fed officials have promised to act against inflation by saying, ''Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.''
 Yesterday, in discussing inflation concerns, the statement said, ''Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident.''
 Mr. Crandall said that taken together these sentences can be interpreted as the Fed's saying that conditions for an assault on inflation ''are potentially getting closer.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 94.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,470.51. On March 4, the Dow was less than 60 points from returning to 11,000 for the first time in nearly four years.
 The S.&P. 500-stock index declined 12.07 points, or 1 percent, to 1,171.71, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 18.17 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,989.34
 The stock market was led lower by sectors that would be hurt by rising interest rates, including financial and utility stocks. The S.&P.'s broad financial sector was down 1.9 percent on the day, as Citigroup dropped $1.32, or 2.9 percent, to $44.44. Bank of America fell 64 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $43.66.
 American International Group, the insurance company under investigation over a transaction with General Re, declined $1.70, or 2.9 percent, to $56.20, after two executives were fired. 
 The utility sector decreased 1.9 percent, led by Exelon, which distributes electricity and gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania and is acquiring New Jersey's biggest utility. It was down $1.16, or 2.5 percent, to $44.42. In the Treasury market, the price of the 10-year note fell 29/32, to 9430/32. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks Treasury securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Government Bonds; Currency; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



480 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed Statement on Interest Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter point:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 23/4 percent.
 The committee believes that, even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Output evidently continues to grow at a solid pace despite the rise in energy prices, and labor market conditions continue to improve gradually. Though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident. The rise in energy prices, however, has not notably fed through to core consumer prices.
 The committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate, to 33/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



481 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: New vs. Old, This Time With a River

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: COLD SPRING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHEN Scenic Hudson needed to develop a plan for restoring the West Point Foundry, one of the nation's most significant early industrial sites, it imported four noted industrial archaeologists to come up with ideas for the site, where steam engines, cannons, iron ships and machines for sugar production were made from 1817 to 1911.
 But there are really two amazing historical artifacts in this lovely Hudson River village, 55 miles up the river from Manhattan. The first is the foundry, which got its start when President James Madison recognized the need for heavy artillery after the War of 1812 and, at its peak, employed more than 1,000 workers. The second is the village the foundry once defined, a rickety, compact jewel with a Main Street from central casting, a cheek-to-jowl jumble of architectural styles and a neo-Hudson Valley population mix of longtime river families and a new breed of artists, urban refugees and weekenders. 
 It's harder, however, to import experts to come up with a plan for a living entity than a defunct one. Hence the degree of tumult in this village of 2,000 people where a big political controversy used to be whether or not to allow selling hot dogs down by the riverfront.
 Over the last few months residents have filed a challenge to a zoning change that would allow a condominium development on an abandoned riverfront lumberyard. Dissenters have mounted a rare political challenge to the group of lifelong Springers who control the government, only to have two of three challengers ruled off the ballot because of technical errors on their petitions.
 They then ran write-in campaigns in which one was victorious and a second, after three vote counts, ended up tied with an incumbent. The candidates are scheduled to meet today with Justice Andrew P. O'Rourke of State Supreme Court to come up with a way to determine the winner.
 It's not entirely clear why things have become so muddled all of a sudden, but it may just be an inevitable result of navigating change in a place where people want to preserve elements of the past, but not necessarily the same ones. 
 ''This is a little bit of a time warp,'' said Karn Dunn, who has lived here for 24 years, which still makes her a relative newcomer to some eyes. ''And I think everyone wants to keep it a little time warpy. They just don't agree on how to do it.''
 The most conspicuous cause of discord was a proposal by Paul Guillaro, a politically connected developer, to build 11 high-end condos on the old waterfront lumberyard, vacant since the early 1980's. Critics say the zoning change approved for the project opens the whole waterfront to high-density residential development that the town doesn't need and can't afford at the expense of development that could do more for the waterfront. Mayor Anthony Phillips, recently re-elected to a seventh two-year term, said that the zoning is appropriate and that there's no possibility of the kind of overbuilding critics fear.
 Mr. Phillips, a lifelong Springer, viewed even by critics as savvy and relentlessly focused on administering town services, in many ways exemplifies the basic divide in Cold Spring between lifers and newcomers -- e.g., anyone not born in town.
 BUT the fact is there are fewer and fewer Springers left. The mayor estimates that they make up 40 to 45 percent of the town. Ed Cretelli, who went to high school with Mr. Phillips and now runs C&E Paint Supply, thinks it's more like 15 to 20 percent. 
 To Mr. Cretelli, the change is fine, a reminder that the place has always evolved from industrial town to the one that adapted after the foundry closed, from the prosperous village of the early 50's, to one of boarded-up storefronts in the early 60's, to one filled with weekend tourists that is now part SoHo, part Wobegon. ''I think you have to let the market decide, like an invisible hand,'' he said.
 That seems to be the main divide between old and new -- not on change versus stasis, but on how change comes about, whether to get ahead of it, develop a vision for the waterfront, enhance a new tourism-based economy or let the market decide much as it has in the past. 
 In that sense, Cold Spring's story is one of many towns along the Hudson, once forgotten, now courted, once left for dead, now facing a menace that was unthinkable two decades ago -- sky-high real estate prices, runaway development, the downside of being places where dead foundries get a post-industrial life and there's no such thing as a Hudson River Brigadoon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (86%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (86%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); PETITIONS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



482 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Who's Minding the Store?

 BODY:
Don't be fooled by the location of the United States Treasury, right next door to the White House. The department has suffered a steady diminution of prestige and influence during the Bush administration, starting with the unceremonious firing of its first Treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, less than two years into the job, in part for suggesting that deficits do, in fact, matter. 
 Things have been downhill ever since. Last December, Republican power brokers made no bones about wanting to oust the current Treasury secretary, John Snow, only to find that the administration couldn't entice anyone better to take the job. Of course, it is always difficult to lure people with Hamiltonian intellect, expertise and reputation away from the private sector. But Mr. Bush has a particularly hard time doing so. 
 The reason in large measure is that from the start of his administration, tax policy and economic policy -- the purview of the Treasury -- have been handmaids to politics and ideology emanating from the White House. Without the clear-cut opportunity to drive policy making, the best and the brightest aren't exactly clamoring for jobs at Treasury. And Mr. Snow is still in his post, reprising his first-term performance as cheerleader for Mr. Bush's tax cuts in his current role as salesperson for Mr. Bush's misbegotten plan to privatize Social Security.
 Meanwhile, vacancies are piling up. The post of deputy secretary, the No. 2 job, has been vacant for nearly two months, and the first-choice candidate recently removed his name from consideration. The post of under secretary for domestic finance, the Treasury's main liaison with Wall Street and the person responsible for issuance of the federal debt, has been open all year. The job of assistant secretary for tax policy has also gone unfilled this year, a disturbing absence at a time when the president is calling for comprehensive tax reform. And on Monday, the under secretary for international affairs, the person who coordinates with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund and steps in when a country like Argentina or Brazil teeters on collapse, announced his resignation effective April 22. 
 The United States faces unprecedented financial risks, uncertainties and challenges, right now. The interplay of our federal budget deficit with our record deficits in trade and global transactions has become the focus of the international financial community, with repercussions for the dollar, inflation, interest rates and economic growth.
 The clear lack of a deep bench from which to fill vacancies is cause for alarm, as is the extent to which our complex economic problems are beyond the ken of a mostly political, loyalist band of policy makers. That alarm, insistent though not yet overwhelming, would quickly reach deafening proportions if the United States were forced to respond to a sudden, destabilizing event like 9/11 without a credible Treasury team. 
 To attract the people the Treasury needs, the White House must assure the best candidates that they will exercise true power and influence. The administration must also work in good faith, and with all due speed, to reach consensus with the Senate on its Treasury nominees, which would streamline the confirmation process and, in so doing, begin to restore the Treasury to its vital place and function.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Editorials; Taxation; United States Economy; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department; Treasury Department

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Paul O'Neill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



483 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Higher Costs Pinch Budget

BYLINE: By Mike McIntire (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
The city is enjoying a surge in tax revenues from a rebounding economy, but its budget is increasingly strained by higher costs for Medicaid, employee benefits and interest payments on its debt, a state fiscal monitor reported yesterday. 
The State Financial Control Board, which has the power to take over the city's finances should it ever fail to balance its budget, said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed $50 billion spending plan for the fiscal year that begins in July is balanced. But the board warned that unresolved factors, like labor agreements that have yet to be negotiated and a court order to spend billions more on schools, could put pressure on the budget. Mike McIntire (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MEDICAID (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



484 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Citing Inflation Pressures, Fed Raises Interest Rates
The Fed nudged up short-term interest rates for the seventh time in the last year, raising the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks from 2.5 to 2.75 percent. It restated its intention to keep raising them at a ''measured'' pace in the months ahead.
 But in a departure from previous declarations, the central bank said there were rising inflationary pressures beyond those tied directly to recent jumps in oil prices. [Page A1.]

Oracle Revenue Rises as Profit Falls
The Oracle Corporation, the software company, said that its revenue rose 18 percent in the third quarter but that its profit fell as it followed through on its $10.3 billion takeover of the PeopleSoft Corporation. Safra Catz, a co-president of Oracle who is also serving as the company's chief financial officer, said the company was pleased with the quarter, which she described as a transitional one. [C5.]

Unsteady Day for G.M. Bonds
Confusion over a deal with GE Capital resulted in a volatile trading day for General Motors bonds. [C2.]

A Step Toward Personalized Drugs
The Food and Drug Administration took a major step toward the development of drugs that would be tailored to individuals based on their genetic profiles. [C3.]

A Canadian court blocked an attempt to sell a generic version of the blood thinner Plavix in Canada. The decision comes as a similar suit is under way in the United States. [C14.]

Companies Seek Older Workers
More companies are hunting for older workers because they have lower turnover rates and, in many cases, better work performance. [A1.]

Limits of Social Security Proposal
Even as he travels the country selling a Social Security overhaul, President Bush is beginning to acknowledge some of the constraints of his plan for individual accounts. [A11.]

Takeover of Swiss Airline Approved
Deutsche Lufthansa said that it had won approval for a takeover of Swiss International Airlines, the successor to Swissair. [C4.]

New Publisher at Los Angeles Times
Jeffrey M. Johnson, left, executive vice president and general manager at The Los Angeles Times, was named the publisher. He succeeds John P. Puerner, who is stepping down on May 31. Mr. Puerner, who has cut costs and staff since the newspaper was acquired by the Tribune Company in 2000, said he was taking ''a self-imposed career break.'' [C15.]

Counting CNN's Success in Seconds
CNN's new president wants to increase the time viewers spend watching the prime-time lineup by 30 seconds a month, which would have a big impact on the bottom line. [E1.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,470.51 down 94.88Nasdaq composite -- 1,989.34 down 18.1710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.64% up 0.12The euro -- $1.3071 down 0.0102The dollar -- 105.57 yen up 0.53Graph: ''TODAY'' shows the Consumer Price Index since August.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks Oracle's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); PHARMACOGENOMICS (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); OLDER WORKERS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); AIRLINES (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (66%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (66%); ANTICOAGULANTS (66%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (81%); SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%); GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%); LHA (FRA) (81%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (64%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: SAFRA A CATZ (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



485 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Shift On Embargo Places Taiwan At Center Stage

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 22 

 BODY:
Reports of a shift in European plans to lift an arms embargo on China have sent a sobering message to China's new leadership, underscoring the sensitivity of its Taiwan policy and the continued dominance of the United States, Chinese analysts say. 
 American and European officials said this week that the European Union might now delay its plan to lift the embargo, imposed after China's crackdown on democracy protests in 1989, until next year at the earliest, dealing a blow to one of China's major foreign policy goals.
 European diplomats cited China's newly adopted antisecession law and intense American opposition to easing restraints on weapons sales to explain the shift. The Chinese law adopted this month threatens military action if Taiwan pursues formal independence from the mainland. 
 Few in China have openly criticized passage of the antisecession law, which Beijing leaders argue is needed to stop Taiwan's drift toward independence. But some foreign policy experts said the country was paying a high price for codifying its longstanding threat to use force into law.
 ''No question, the antisecession law had a strong impact on European sentiment,'' said Song Xinning, a professor at People's University who is one of China's most prominent experts on European policy.
 ''The Europeans have said all along that the embargo is a problem they would like to solve and that it is just a question of timing,'' Mr. Song said. ''Now, this has become a very bad time.''
 China's official position, repeated by a Foreign Ministry spokesman on Tuesday, is that the European arms embargo and the antisecession law have no connection. China says it wants the embargo removed because it amounts to an anachronistic form of political discrimination. The antisecession law, according to the official line, is aimed at maintaining peace in the Taiwan Strait.
 Privately, some Chinese analysts say they now reckon that the law may have been mishandled by the leadership under Hu Jintao, the Communist Party chief, who has sought to strengthen his credentials by taking a tougher posture toward Taiwan.
 It came as a discordant note at a time when relations with Taiwan were widely viewed as improving. Some Chinese moderates on the Taiwan question argued that the National People's Congress, the Communist Party-controlled legislature, might have simply discussed a new law rather than enacting one, which was done with little public debate.
 ''I think the leadership anticipated that they would get a strong reaction from the parties most directly concerned, like Taiwan and the United States,'' said Shi Yinhong, a foreign policy expert in Beijing. ''But I'm not so sure they anticipated second- and third-degree reactions, as from Europe. So I think to an extent this comes as a surprise.''
 Just a few weeks ago, Beijing seemed close to achieving its ambition of removing the embargo, which it views as inappropriate for a country of its rising stature. After persistent Chinese diplomacy, France, Germany, Britain and other European countries all signaled their willingness to remove the embargo by this summer.
 But sentiment shifted after President Bush visited Europe in February, where he lobbied against the lifting of the embargo while also backing a highly restrictive code of conduct on arms sales to replace it. Congress has appeared ready to increase the stakes, threatening to punish any European companies that sell arms to China and seek defense business in the United States.
 Though European officials cited the antisecession law as the reason for maintaining the embargo for the immediate future, some Chinese analysts say it was the United States that played the decisive hand.
 ''The United States is worried about China's rise,'' said Pan Wei, a political theorist at Beijing University. ''Most people think this is not really about European opinion, but rather another strong indicator that the U.S. has an unfriendly policy toward China.''
 Mr. Pan argued that the antisecession law did not appreciably increase the risk of war with Taiwan and may have diminished the risk if the law has the effect of persuading Taiwan's leaders to refrain from seeking to legalize Taiwan's independent status. But he said the United States used its sway to persuade Europe not to upset the balance of power in a region that the United States views as its military domain.
 Mr. Song of People's University agreed that American influence had proved effective. He said that even as some Chinese officials welcomed the prospect of lifting the embargo earlier this year, he doubted it would occur anytime soon. 
 The reason, he said, is that the European Union must act by consensus. The United States would not have a hard time persuading at least a minority of member countries to keep the embargo in place, he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); ARMS TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); DISCRIMINATION (50%) Law and Legislation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Arms Sales Abroad; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%) European Union

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%) Joseph Kahn; Hu Jintao

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (99%); TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) China; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



486 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

His Popularity Falling, Blair Struggles to Rebuild Image
British Prime Minister Tony Blair swept to power in 1997 vowing to ''rebrand'' Britain. But lately, his star has fallen as he has thrashed through one political thicket after another, from the unpopular war in Iraq to issues like the numbers of hospital beds for surgery and failing schools. A1

West Bank Settlement Probed
The Bush administration, expressing muted concern about Israeli plans to build new housing outside Jerusalem, said that two top Middle East envoys would seek ''clarifications'' on whether the action contradicted American policy opposing an expansion of ''settlement activity'' in the West Bank. A9

Iraqis Fight Off Insurgents
A carpenter and his young relatives opened fire as insurgents came toward his shop in Baghdad, one of the first times that private citizens are known to have retaliated successfully against the insurgents. Elsewhere in Iraq, 4 civilians were killed and 14 were wounded in Mosul when a roadside bomb detonated near an American military convoy, health officials said. A6

Border Tunnels Scrutinized
United States Customs officials continue to discover more elaborate tunnels burrowed under the Mexico border, and they fear that the tunnels could be used just as easily to smuggle terrorists and explosives as cocaine or illegal aliens. That issue forms the backdrop for a meeting in Texas between President Bush, President Vicente Fox of Mexico and Prime Minister Paul Martin of Canada. A8

NATIONAL A10-15

Judge Refuses to Order Feeding Tube Reinserted
A federal judge refused to order Terri Schiavo's feeding tube reinserted, and as their legal options dwindled her stunned parents quickly appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, which gave no hint when it would rule. A1

A Soft Sell on Social Security
Even as he travels the country selling his Social Security overhaul, President Bush is beginning to acknowledge some of the constraints of his plan for individual accounts. A11

Comic Testifies at Jackson Trial
A stand-up comic who befriended the family of the boy who has accused Michael Jackson of molesting him testified that the boy's mother telephoned her in a panic, indicating she was being held captive by associates of Mr. Jackson. A15

A Lifetime of Family Trouble
Before the storm of bullets that left 10 people on the Red Lake Indian reservation dead, Jeff Weise was rarely noticed, but when he was, people saw a confused, brooding teenager with few friends, a peculiar attraction to Nazism and a lifetime of family troubles. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Plants and Genetic Memory
In a startling discovery, geneticists at Purdue say they have found plants that possess a corrected version of a defective gene inherited from both their parents, as if some handy backup copy with the right version had been made in the grandparents' generation or earlier. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Subway Fire in Brooklyn Snarls Morning Commute
For the third time in less than a week, New York City subway trains were halted and thousands of commuters were delayed at the peak of the morning rush, this time because of a fire at the Atlantic Avenue station in Brooklyn that snarled service on the Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 lines as well as 13 trains on the Long Island Rail Road. A1

Ambitious Railyard Bids
Now that bids have been submitted for the West Side railyards, two things have become clear: the regional transit system will make far more money as a result of the auction for the site than it would have with the Jets' original stadium plan, and whoever wins the auction will have to build far more high-rise construction along the Hudson than city planners ever intended. B1

EDUCATION B9

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-12

DINING IN F1-14

OBITUARIES C15-16

Kenzo Tange
The Japanese architect who converted the core of the barren Hiroshima into a tranquil peace park in the 1940's and 50's, was 91. C16

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Fed Raises Interest Rates
The Fed nudged up short-term interest rates for the seventh time in the last year, and said there were rising inflationary pressures beyond those tied directly to the recent jumps in oil prices. A1

Stocks and bonds fell sharply and interest rates rose after the Federal Reserve said inflation pressures had increased in the last few months. The dollar rallied on the anticipation of higher interest rates to curb price increases. C1

Move Seen for Fox TV Chief
Gail Berman is expected to leave her job as the chief television programmer at Fox Entertainment for the top creative position at Paramount Pictures, executives at both companies confirmed. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A real political football; one step back in the Mideast; who's minding the store?

Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E12
Weather D8
TV Listings E11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TESTIMONY (86%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); TERRORISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); JUDGES (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); COCAINE (65%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); PAUL MARTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



487 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Bush Opens Door to Changes in His Plan

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, March 22 

 BODY:
Even as he travels the country selling his Social Security overhaul, President Bush is beginning to acknowledge some of the constraints of his plan for individual accounts.
 He warns audiences they will not be able to just cash in their accounts when they retire. He says that the accounts may enhance retirement income for younger workers, but he admits they will not fix the ailing Social Security system over all. 
 And at an event here on Tuesday, as he often does, Mr. Bush modestly described individual accounts as just one idea ''people ought to seriously consider,'' rather than a nonnegotiable proposal. His comments, taken together, offer further evidence that the argument for individual accounts remains difficult, and that Mr. Bush may wind up accepting a plan different from the one he first outlined. 
 ''I believe all ideas ought to be on the table,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Even the slogan at the president's public events has changed. At the New Mexico event, gone were the banners that once declared the president's interest in ''Strengthening Social Security.''
 Instead they had a more targeted message: ''Keeping Our Promise to Seniors.'' His last several outings have been dedicated to reassuring older voters that their Social Security payments are not in jeopardy, rather than demanding the bold restructuring that was once the focus of his sales pitch. 
 He has visited centers for older Americans, interrupting residents' card games to repeat the promise. He has brought along his mother, Barbara Bush, to show he understands older people's concerns. And he has enlisted prominent Republicans including Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John McCain of Arizona to help mollify what polls show to be substantial opposition among the elderly to his approach.
 In the face of unusually solid opposition from many Democrats and even a significant number of Republicans, Mr. Bush is also taking care to explain the finer points of individual retirement accounts, some of which White House officials have glossed over in the past. His descriptions have grown increasingly technical, although Mr. Bush has not put forward the details of any plan.
 In Tucson on Monday, Mr. Bush told the audience: ''You can't liquidate your personal account when you retire. It's the interest off your personal account that will complement your Social Security check, no matter how big or little it is, that you're getting from the federal government. That's important to remember.'' 
 In Denver later that day, he cautioned that ''when you retire, you can't pull all your money out.'' And in Albuquerque on Tuesday morning, Mr. Bush told the audience members that they ''can't liquidate the plan upon retirement because it's a part of the retirement system.''
 ''But your estate -- you can leave it to whomever you want,'' he said. ''You want to leave it to your daughter? Fine.''
 At that same stop, Mr. Bush made another admission that has cropped up more frequently in his speeches: that individual accounts will not help the cash flow problem set to occur within the Social Security system. His proposal, he said, is ''not the way to fix the system.''
 ''It's going to require other matters to fix the system,'' Mr. Bush said, describing individual accounts as simply ''a way to make the system better for the individual worker.'' He made the same point -- which skeptics about his proposals have been making for months -- in his March 16 news conference, telling reporters that ''personal accounts do not solve the issue.''
 ''But personal accounts will make sure that individual workers get a better deal with whatever emerges as a Social Security solution,'' he said.
 Critics argue that the accounts would make the Social Security system even less solvent than economists already project it will be in the decades ahead, diverting at least one-third of the current payroll tax away from the program. 
 The way Mr. Bush's approach has been described by White House officials, it would restrict what workers could do with the account upon retirement. Most workers would be required to use part of the money to buy an annuity, a lump-sum payment in exchange for a lower stream of annual income to make sure that retirees did not outlast their savings. Only the money left after buying the annuity would be available to pass on to inheritors.
 On Tuesday, Mr. McCain traveled with Mr. Bush for a second straight day, and joined him in delivering a second message: that the United States is promoting freedom around the world. ''The winds of change are blowing through the Middle East,'' Mr. McCain said. ''Some of our European friends may be on the wrong side of history.''
 Mr. McCain's comments about the war in Iraq produced the only standing ovation at the event. 
 Unlike most other presidential appearances, the event inside the darkly lit Kiva Auditorium was sparsely attended, with hundreds of empty seats. Several participants joined the politicians onstage, including a 78-year-old retired teacher, Margaret Valdez, and her 24-year-old granddaughter, Jessica, who both support individual accounts. The older woman said she had appeared with Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, at a Social Security event before, suggesting that the performance was even more practiced than most.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico talked yesterday about Social Security at the Bear Canyon Senior Center in Albuquerque. Mr. Bush is on a Western swing to seek support for his plan. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Social Security (US)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Anne E Kornblut; George W (Pres) Bush; Pete V (Sen) Domenici

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (93%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



488 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: A Real Political Football

 BODY:
Just weeks ago, the New York Jets made a take-it-or-take-it offer of $100 million for rights to build a stadium over the railyards on Manhattan's Far West Side. The rights belong to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the region's beleaguered mass transit system. The offer was only a fraction of the appraised value, and you'd have thought Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Gov. George Pataki -- who understand the M.T.A.'s problems but have not been particularly helpful about solutions -- would have been outraged. But both men seem more interested in getting that stadium built than in protecting the commuting public. 
 The M.T.A. was forced to open the bidding, and the Jets have now offered a package of $720 million. That should be reason enough to ask why top elected officials weren't more aggressive earlier. But even now, it is still far from clear that the deal is a fair one for the authority and the city.
 The team's bid includes $440 million from a half dozen developers who would use part of the development rights to build other projects, mainly housing. But that part of the offer is contingent on rezoning the proposed stadium site for residential use and allowing transfer of the rights to the surrounding area. That is far from a sure thing, given competing plans for residential projects on the Far West Side. 
 Further, the Jets are still expecting at least $600 million in city and state assistance to build a platform over the yards and a roof for the stadium. That's an enormous amount of public money for a team playing in one of the most lucrative sports markets on the globe. The Jets have also been assured of getting the zoning needed for the stadium and that the team won't have to pay the freight if there turn out to be environmental problems at the site that need to be fixed. These sweeteners, which considerably detract from the value of the team's offer, were not available to other bidders.
 Small wonder, then, that there were only three bids. The only one other than the Jets' that has a fighting chance came from the stadium project's archenemy, Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden. If nothing else, the company deserves credit for helping the M.T.A. see the light and encouraging the public to ask questions about the entire stadium deal.
 Cablevision made its initial offer of $600 million -- including the cost of constructing a platform -- last month. That helped to prompt the authority's chairman, Peter Kalikow, to look beyond the Jets. But the bidding took place on grounds that were far from even -- only the Jets were assured they would have no problems with zoning or environmental concerns. The authority, beset with crushing debt, an aging and ailing subway system in the city and the need to finance its multibillion-dollar capital plan, missed what could have been a golden opportunity. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's desire to jump-start development on the Far West Side is laudable, but we still doubt the stadium can accomplish that. There's no need for the M.T.A. board to rush to select a bid, as planned, at the end of the month. Finding a best price and highest use for the site may yet be possible, but only if the process is made truly open and fair.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); SPORTS BUSINESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%) Area Planning and Renewal; Editorials; Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%) Hudson Yards Development Corporation; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New York Jets; Cablevision Inc

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



489 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Social Security 'Lock Box'

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has placed himself in his own ''lock box'' (''Greenspan Defends His Support of Tax Cuts,'' news article, March 16).
 He would like to see Social Security privatized, but as a pragmatist he knows that full privatization is politically impossible. 
 He would like to see partial privatization as a second-best alternative, but he hates the federal deficits that the transition entails. 
 He would like to see the national tax level decline, but only if federal expenditures are cut, and that means Social Security benefits. 
 However, cutting Social Security benefits increases the size of Social Security surpluses. According to the chairman, this may simply encourage more government spending.
 What is a poor economist to do when you can't privatize, you don't like deficits, taxes or Social Security trust fund balances? 
 Answer: Advocate a bipartisan commission and hope for the best.

Charles J. Zwick
Peter A. Lewis
Coral Gables, Fla., March 16, 2005

The writers were, respectively, director and assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget under President Lyndon B. Johnson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); PRIVATIZATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005



490 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Unit of Euro RSCG Gets Jaguar Account

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
The struggling Jaguar Cars division of Ford Motor yesterday named the London and New York offices of Euro RSCG/Fuel, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas, the global creative agency of record on its account. 
 Billings on the assignment, which had been handled for four years by the Irvine, Calif., and London offices of Young & Rubicam, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group, were estimated at more than $100 million. 
 Landing Jaguar is a coup for Havas, which has been grappling with financial problems, a takeover threat from a large investor and the loss of clients like Intel at Euro RSCG and other agencies. Ford Motor is expanding its relationship with Euro RSCG, which creates global campaigns for the Volvo brand. 
 On the other hand, Jaguar's departure is a blow for WPP, which worked hard at the highest level to hold on to the assignment from Ford. 
 The decision came after a four-month review that was narrowed this week to Euro RSCG and JWT, part of WPP; they competed earlier against these agencies: Berlin Cameron/Red Cell in New York, part of the Red Cell division of WPP; Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of the Kirshenbaum Bond Creative Network division of MDC Partners; Leagas Delaney in London; and M&C Saatchi in London. Y.&R. was dismissed by Jaguar when it was eliminated from the review on Feb. 9. 
 Although the creative assignment is leaving WPP, other agencies owned by WPP will continue to handle other duties for Jaguar. They are Wunderman, for direct marketing, and two media agencies, MindShare and Mediaedge:cia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); TAKEOVERS (70%); DIRECT MARKETING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (94%); WPP PLC (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); HAVAS SA (84%); M&C SAATCHI PLC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); JWT (55%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (55%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); HAV (PAR) (84%); SAA (LSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



491 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Patent Law in India Spurs Concern on AIDS Drugs
India, a major source of inexpensive AIDS drugs, passed a new patent law that organizations providing drugs to the world's poorest patients fear will choke off the supply of new treatments.
 Because millions of Indians and other poor people -- including, by some estimates, half the AIDS patients in the Third World -- rely on India's generic drug industry, lobbyists for drug companies along with activists fighting for cheap drugs had descended on New Delhi to try to influence the outcome. [A1.]

Makers of generic drugs in India face an uncertain playing field after the approval of a new patent bill. [C6.]

Longtime PBS Program Is Canceled
''Wall Street Week,'' which became one of the most-watched programs on public television over its 35-year run, has been canceled. Maryland Public Television the program's producer, and the Public Broadcasting Service, plan to announce that the program will be broadcast for the last time on June 24. The cancellation comes three years after the program's creator and longtime host, Louis Rukeyser, was removed as part of an effort to attract a bigger audience. [C8.]

Taking On a Giant in Japan
A court ruling in Japan set the stage for a 32-year-old entrepreneur and his Internet company, Livedoor, to gain a majority stake in Nippon Broadcasing System Inc. [C9.]

Airlines Beginning to Raise Fares
In the last four weeks, the nation's major airlines have instituted three rounds of fare increases. [C5.]

Bush Fills a Treasury Position
President Bush announced that he would nominate Timothy D. Adams, a policy adviser to Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns, to succeed John B. Taylor as under secretary for international affairs. [C7.]

Stocks Recover From Inflation Data
Stocks ended little changed as the biggest drop in oil prices this year led to a recovery from an inflation report. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 0.82 point, to 1172.53. The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.88 point to 1990.22. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 14.49 points, to 10,456.02. [C10.]

Newmarket Films Is Acquired
HBO and New Line Cinema said that they would jointly acquire Newmarket Films, an independent film distributor. [C9.]

Paxil Factory Woes Hurt Glaxo
GlaxoSmithKline's factory troubles are turning into a major financial problem. Three weeks after government regulators seized undelivered supplies of the company's popular antidepressant Paxil CR and ordered its manufacturing line to be shut down, the company remains uncertain about when it can correct its production problems and resume shipments of the drug. [C2.]

Strong Sales From a Weak Dollar
For some small companies in the United States, sales are increasing as the dollar declines. Small Business. [C8.]

The Travails of an Inflation Tracker
Hotel rooms offer an example of the judgments economists make when they track inflation. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,456.02 down 14.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,990.22 up 0.8810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.59% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2972 down 0.0099The dollar -- 106.01 yen up 0.44Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Durable Goods Orders and New-Home Sales from August 2004 to January 2005.Durable Goods OrdersFebruary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.9%New-Home SalesFebruary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +4.0%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Glaxo shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); PATENT LAW (91%); AIDS & HIV (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); PATENTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); INFLATION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); LOBBYING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (71%); AIRLINES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); US DOLLAR (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (69%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (97%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



492 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: Vibrant Cities Find One Thing Missing: Children

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
The Pearl District in the heart of this perpetually self-improving city seems to have everything in new urban design and comfort, from the Whole Foods store where fresh-buffed bell peppers are displayed like runway models to the converted lofts that face sidewalk gardens.
 Everything except children. 
 Crime is down. New homes and businesses are sprouting everywhere. But in what may be Portland's trendiest and fastest-growing neighborhood, the number of school-age children grew by only three between the census counts in 1990 and 2000, according to demographers at Portland State University. 
 ''The neighborhood would love to have more kids, that's probably the top of our wish list,'' said Joan Pendergast of the Pearl Neighborhood Association. ''We don't want to be a one-dimensional place.''
 It is a problem unlike the urban woes of cities like Detroit and Baltimore, where families have fled decaying neighborhoods, business areas and schools. Portland is one of the nation's top draws for the kind of educated, self-starting urbanites that mid-size cities are competing to attract. But as these cities are remodeled to match the tastes of people living well in neighborhoods that were nearly abandoned a generation ago, they are struggling to hold on to enough children to keep schools running and parks alive with young voices. 
 San Francisco, where the median house price is now about $700,000, had the lowest percentage of people under 18 of any large city in the nation, 14.5 percent, compared with 25.7 percent nationwide, the 2000 census reported. Seattle, where there are more dogs than children, was a close second. Boston, Honolulu, Portland, Miami, Denver, Minneapolis, Austin and Atlanta, all considered, healthy, vibrant urban areas, were not far behind. The problem is not just that American women are having fewer children, reflected in the lowest birth rate ever recorded in the country. 
 Officials say that the very things that attract people who revitalize a city -- dense vertical housing, fashionable restaurants and shops and mass transit that makes a car unnecessary -- are driving out children by making the neighborhoods too expensive for young families.
 Other cities have tried and failed to curb family flight. In Portland, the new mayor, Tom Potter, says demography does not have to be destiny. He has dedicated his term to trying to keep children in the city.
 Every child a city loses, on average, can mean a loss of about $5,000 for the school district, officials say. Children also create a constituency for parks, trails and public safety improvements, Mr. Potter said, and their parents tend to favor upgrading those amenities through higher taxes. He has been bringing children in to speak to the City Council and has pushed for incentives for affordable housing with enough bedrooms to accommodate bigger families.
 A former police chief who helped pioneer community patrolling, Mayor Potter has 14 grandchildren and says a city's health should be measured by its youngest citizens. ''We can't let Portland become a retirement city or a city without neighborhood schools,'' he said.
 New York and Los Angeles, because of their large immigrant populations, have maintained their base of children, but demographers, pointing to falling birth rates among Latinos and other ethnic groups, say the nation's biggest cities may soon follow the others.
 In Portland, the trends are not in Mayor Potter's favor. From 1990 to 2003 the city added more than 90,000 people, growing to an estimated 529,121 residents, but Portland is now educating the fewest students in more than 80 years.
 The problem is not that children are leaving for private schools, officials said. It is that new people attracted to the city tend to have higher incomes, having already raised a family; are retiring; or are single and unlikely to have children. 
 After interviewing 300 parents who had left the city, researchers at Portland State found that high housing costs and a desire for space were the top reasons. 
 Tina Ray lived in Portland for 12 years before moving to Gresham, where her 9-year-old daughter attends school. Her family left for a bigger house and more space, she said. ''It's kid friendly, with a great sense of community, and lots of sports leagues,'' she said.
 Many Portland families are relocating to the newest edge suburbs, where housing prices are cheapest, including Clark County across the Columbia River in Washington, Portland State demographers say. 
 After a drop of 10,000 students in the last decade, Portland officials called in March for the closing of six schools, prompting cries of grief from three generations of adults who say that nothing takes the heart out of a neighborhood like a shuttered school. 
 The pool of school-age children is shrinking so fast that Portland will have to close the equivalent of three or four elementary schools a year over the next decade, according to school district projections. 
 ''I don't think we're going to become a nearly childless city like San Francisco, but the age structure is really changing,'' said Barry Edmonston, an urban studies professor at Portland State, who does demographic projections for the school district. ''People are not turning over the houses like they used to. They're aging in place, at the same time that prices are really going up, making it hard for young families to move into the city.'' 
 Nationally, the birthrate has been dropping while the overall population is aging as life expectancy increases. The problem is not just in cities. New figures released this month showed North Dakota losing more children than any other state.
 Scottsdale, Ariz., a fast-growing Phoenix suburb, lost 571 students last year. San Jose closed three schools last year and expects to close three more soon. 
 Between 2003 and 2004, only six states had an increase in their elementary school population, the census bureau reported in March. 
 In that sense, the United States is following Europe and the rest of the industrial world, where birthrates now rarely exceed the rate needed to replace the population.
 ''If you took immigrants out of the equation, the United States would be like the rest of Europe,'' said Phillip Longman, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a public policy research organization in Washington. He is the author of ''The Empty Cradle: How Falling Birth Rates Threaten World Prosperity and What To Do About It.'' 
 Mr. Longman said a decline in children not only takes away ''human capital'' needed to sustain an aging population, but ''having fewer children really diminishes the quality of life in a city.'' 
 Most city leaders seem to agree. Even in San Francisco, where officials are preparing for another round of school closings amid a projected decline of 4,000 students in the next five years, city officials are aggressively marketing the city and its schools to young families.
 But what they cannot do, especially after the failure last year of a ballot measure sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce to encourage affordable housing, is bring housing prices down.
 ''It's a real challenge trying to raise a kid in San Francisco,'' said Jim Armstrong, a father of two who is active in Little League in the city and rents a home. ''It takes a degree of fortitude for a parent to stay with the city.''
 Other cities that have tried to reverse the family outflow have had mixed success. As mayor of Seattle for 12 years, until 1990, Charles Royer started an initiative called KidsPlace, which has been widely copied by other cities. It included marketing the city's neighborhoods to young families, building a small mix of affordable housing, and zoning and policing changes to make urban parks more child-friendly.
 Mr. Royer said he was ridiculed for signs placed around town proclaiming ''Seattle is a KidsPlace'' and took criticism from social service agencies who thought bringing in more families would only place more demands on the limited money they had. Mr. Royer said he was bucking historic changes, and Seattle now has some of the nation's highest-priced real estate and its lowest percentage of children.
 ''I said things like, 'We don't want to be like San Francisco,' but in the end, I don't think we were terribly effective at stemming that tide,'' Mr. Royer said. ''It's not so much a social problem as it is a demographic and financial problem.'' 
 Here in Portland, the city is bemoaning the demographic cycle as it unfolds before their eyes. On the day of the announcement to close Kenton Elementary School, which has anchored a north Portland neighborhood for 91 years, some parents and residents reacted as if there had been a death in the family. 
 ''I feel heartbroken,'' said Mary Krogh, who had planned to enroll her 4-year-old son, Chase, in the school. ''It's just a terrible loss.'' 
 The school and a tightknit community were among the things that attracted Ms. Krogh and her husband to the neighborhood seven years ago, she said. 
 But now the school will be shuttered, and improvements from Portland's beloved light rail line have contributed to rising real estate prices, defeating the broad goals of the mayor's effort to bring and keep young families in the city.
 ''Portland is a great city that attracts a lot of educated people,'' she said. ''But the real estate is becoming outrageously expensive. And then you get wealthy singles and wealthy retirees. What's missing are kids. And that feels really sterile to me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenton Elementary School in north Portland, Ore., is scheduled to be closed because of declining enrollment. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 The Pearl District in Portland appeals to adults but lacks children. (pg. A16)Chart:Cities with populations 300,000 or more ranked by the lowest percentage of children under 18.1. San Francisco -- 14.5%2. Seattle -- 15.63. Honolulu -- 19.24. Boston -- 19.85. Pittsburgh -- 19.96. Washington -- 20.17. Portland, Ore. -- 21.18. Miami -- 21.7(Source by Queens College Department of Sociology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); CENSUS (71%); MAYORS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Urban Areas; Children and Youth; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Urban Areas

PERSON: Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Portland (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



493 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Coke Shakes Up Global Marketing Team

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company announced a shake-up of its global marketing and advertising managers yesterday, linking them all under a single executive. The company also said it planned to revamp its business in Europe, Asia, Eurasia and the Middle East.
 As part of the shuffling, Sandy Allan, 60, the president for Europe, Eurasia and Middle East since July 2001, will retire. Mary E. Minnick, president of Coca-Cola Asia for the last four years, will lead the new unit, overseeing marketing, innovation and strategic growth. 
 Chuck Fruit, chief marketing officer, and Danny L. Strickland, chief innovation-research and development officer, will report to Ms. Minnick, along with a director of strategic growth, who is yet to be named. 
 Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, is trying to increase sluggish soft drink sales in North America and other major markets in the face of a consumer revolt against soft drinks and other sugar-laced, high-calorie products.
 Despite the changes, Coca-Cola has not yet turned the corner, said Bonnie Herzog, an analyst with Smith Barney who has a rating of hold on the company's shares. ''We continue to believe Coca-Cola is in transition, and these moves are just the latest examples of the changes the company is undergoing,'' Ms. Herzog said in an analyst note. ''We continue to believe the road to recovery will be long.''
 Coca-Cola is the world's largest soft drink maker, but its market share fell 0.9 percentage point, to 43.1 percent, in the United States during 2004, according to the Beverage Digest/Maxwell U.S. Soft Drink survey. Over all, carbonated soft drink volume grew 1 percent in 2004, driven by diet drinks and energy drinks.
 Yesterday's moves were the first major shifts that the company's chairman and chief executive, E. Neville Isdell, has made since taking those jobs in June 2004, said John Sicher, editor of the industry trade journal Beverage Digest.
 In other changes, Dominique Reiniche, most recently president of Coca-Cola Enterprises Europe, will lead the new European Union group. Her responsibilities will include all of Coke's operations in nations that belong to the European Union, as well as the European Free Trade Association countries.
 The new North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East group will be led by Muhtar Kent, most recently board member of the company's Turkish bottler, Coca-Cola Icecek. The Southeast Asia and Pacific Rim group will be led by Patrick Siewert, who had been president, East and South Asia group. Mr. Kent, Mr. Siewert and Ms. Reiniche will report directly to Mr. Isdell. The company said the changes would be effective May 1.
 Shares of Coca-Cola lost 20 cents, to close at $41.20. The shares have fallen about 20 percent during Mr. Isdell's tenure as chairman and chief executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BEVERAGE MFG (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); SOFT DRINK MFG (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (96%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (52%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (52%); COCA-COLA ICECEK AS (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); CCE (PAR) (52%); CCE (NYSE) (52%); CCOLA (ISE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MUHTAR KENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); ASIA (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



494 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Leaders Find That Three Is a Crowd

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 23 

 BODY:
In any endeavor involving a group of three, it eventually comes down to two ganging up against one. Everyone from professional psychologists to nursery school teachers will tell you this. 
 As state officials try to pass the first on-time budget in New York in two decades, the man in the middle of the three-men equation is Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the State Senate. He finds himself the subject of a tug-of-war for his support between Albany's two arch rivals: Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, and Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly. 
 With the April 1 budget deadline just more than a week away, Mr. Silver seems to be winning the contest, at least by most accounts. But Mr. Pataki is tugging hard. 
 Mr. Silver has been Mr. Bruno's on-again, off-again ally in the annual budget wars. These days, he strolls shoulder-to-shoulder with Mr. Bruno after legislative meetings and hews his political comments even closer. 
 On Monday night, the speaker even stopped by a party in the Capitol to raise a toast to Mr. Bruno's departing press secretary, even as the governor held a news conference two floors below to scold the Legislature for its tardiness in budget-making.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno were finishing each other's sentences, acting as if they were moving ahead without the governor's cooperation. A Bruno aide said the majority leader and Mr. Silver were engaging in a voluntary form of budget overhaul that Mr. Bruno would like to make more permanent. 
 Rank-and-file lawmakers told their leaders that they had reached agreement on altering and extending an economic development program that creates virtually tax-free zones. They rejected the governor's plan to raise tuitions at the state and city universities, something the Senate had held onto, and they struck a deal to ask voters to float $2.9 billion in bonds for transportation projects.
 Still, they saved many of the toughest budget issues for the committee headed by Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver. ''The conference committee process is nothing more than two men at a table, instead of three men in a room,'' said a state official familiar with the negotiations who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of scuttling the talks.
 The governor's hand has been strengthened by a recent Court of Appeals ruling. Nonetheless, he has been feverishly pressuring lawmakers to finish their work. Mr. Pataki, who most politicians and observers still think would need to approve major budget changes by the Legislature, called another news conference on Wednesday night to warn lawmakers to finish up, and fast. ''You have to face up to it, make the hard decisions, move forward and get the budget done,'' he said. 
 Earlier, he held a closed-door meeting with a group of Long Island senators, and called New York City lawmakers to a similar summit. 
 ''He's supportive,''' said Senator Martin Golden, a Republican from Brooklyn. ''I don't think it's so much as lobbying as to make sure that if he sees any issues, anything that is going to be able to block the budget or if there are any hostilities toward the budget process, he wants to make sure that is alleviated.'' 
 Over all, there is nothing new about Mr. Bruno's straddling the divide between Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver, except for the governor's new overwhelming budget powers. 
 ''So Senator Bruno, to some extent, isn't a partner anymore, he's a supplicant,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat. But, he said, ''that would be true for the party of the governor no matter who it was.''
 Republicans say it is Mr. Bruno's nature to be a conciliator. Mr. Bruno is seemingly aware of how personalities in Albany can have as much to do with progress as policy or politics.
 ''You know what, there is always tension sure,'' he said. ''It goes with the territory.'' But he also acknowledged that he must walk a fine line, politically, with a governor in his party and, on policy, with a conference of people with varying needs. He said he did it by listening and communicating.
 Plainspoken by nature, Mr. Bruno made what sounded like a Freudian slip in speaking about how things might move ahead, saying, ''There may be revolutions,'' before quickly correcting himself, saying, ''Revelations, there.'' 
 To which Mr. Silver, standing next to him in a meeting that has come to be called ''The Mother Ship,'' for its authority over the process, looked at Mr. Bruno, raised his eyebrows and asked, ''No revolutions?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (87%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); BONDS (62%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



495 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

India's Patent Law Could Affect Generics
India, the source of inexpensive drugs for AIDS patients in many poor countries, passed a new patent law that activists say will eventually choke off that supply. The new law affects everything from electronics to software to medicines, and has been expected for years as a condition of India joining the World Trade Organization. A1

Large Guerrilla Camp Raided
Iraqi and American forces killed at least 80 insurgents in a fierce battle during a raid on what appeared to be the largest guerrilla training camp to be discovered in the war, Iraqi officials said. Seven Iraqi policemen were killed and six wounded. A1

Iran Still at Nuclear Impasse
Iran and its European negotiating partners struggled to break an impasse on reaching a long-term agreement on nuclear, economic and security cooperation. But the Iranian side presented proposals to provide further assurances that Iran's nuclear program was peaceful, participants said. A12

Sharon Set for Withdrawal
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon seems likely to survive a vote on the national budget and press ahead with his plan to dismantle all 21 Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip and four small ones in the West Bank beginning in late July. A12

Election Protests Spread
Crowds in Kyrgyzstan protesting elections that have been condemned as fraudulent spread to the Kyrgyz capital, and opposition leaders planned more demonstrations in the face of what they said were threats from the authorities to fire on the crowds. A6

France Pushes War-Crime Case
France proposed a resolution referring war crimes in Sudan to the International Criminal Court, presenting the United States with the choice of validating a tribunal it opposes or casting a awkward veto. A6

NATIONAL A14-21

Federal and State Courts Consider Schiavo Case
After a predawn ruling by a federal appellate court rejecting efforts to restore nutrition to Terri Schiavo, Gov. Jeb Bush succeeded in getting a state court to hear new motions in her case, presenting an affidavit from a neurologist who said her condition appeared less severe than previously thought. A1

Verdict in Smuggling Case
A jury convicted a trucker on human smuggling charges in the suffocation deaths of 19 illegal immigrants in South Texas in 2003, but spared him the death penalty by deadlocking on questions of how he was to blame. A14

Refinery Explosion Kills 14
A fiery explosion with plumes of black smoke shattered a chemical unit at the huge BP oil refinery in Texas City, near Galveston, killing at least 14 people and injuring more than 100, company officials said. A14

Medicare's Dire Outlook
The long-term financial condition of the Social Security system deteriorated slightly over the last year, the trustees of the Social Security and Medicare programs said, adding that Medicare's outlook was ''much worse than Social Security's.'' A19

City Battles Lack of Children
Portland, Ore., the perpetually self-improving city seems to have everything in new urban design and comfort, but the number of school-age children grew by only three between the census counts in 1990 and 2000, according to demographers at Portland State University. A1

EDUCATION

States Doubt Education Goal
Test scores on state exams have been going up since the passage of the No Child Left Behind Act, President Bush's signature education law. But states have grave doubts about their ability to meet the full requirements of the law. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Using a Business Model, Pataki Transforms SUNY
In 10 years, Governor Pataki has left a greater imprint on the State University of New York than any governor since Nelson A. Rockefeller. He has tied SUNY's fortunes to alliances with the business sector, and because of him, SUNY in many ways operates like a private university today. A1

Columbia on Censorship
The president of Columbia University, faced with complaints that it has tolerated anti-Semitism and intimidation in its Middle East studies classes, said there were some limits to academic freedom in the classroom. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

OBITUARIES B10

Leona Rostenberg
A rare-book scholar and dealer who with her partner of 50 years discovered a series of racy novels written by Louisa May Alcott under a pseudonym, she was 96. B10

CIRCUITS G1-8

ARTS E1-12

Artist Dupes World Museums
Over the last two weeks, a shadowy British graffiti artist who calls himself Banksy has carried his own humorous artworks into four New York institutions and attached them to the walls, alongside other paintings and exhibits. Similar stunts at the Louvre and the Tate museum have earned the artist a following in Europe. But his graffiti has also landed him in legal trouble. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Consumer Prices Rise
The Labor Department reported that the Consumer Price Index jumped 0.4 percent in February, the fastest pace since October. Surging oil prices contributed substantially to the increase, but other prices also rose broadly, pushing the ''core'' index up by 0.3 percent. C1

Battle Over Transport Plane
A nasty budget fight is brewing between the Pentagon and Congress over funding for the C-130J, the latest version of the venerable workhorse the Air Force uses to drop cargo and paratroopers into global hot spots. C1

Crucial Meeting at A.I.G.
Directors of the American International Group will meet on a number of important issues confronting the company -- including the possibility of restating its annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission because of an internal review of numerous transactions, people close to the company said. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: A threat to Iraqi women; the all-time gag order; about that number; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Belize.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PATENTS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); VERDICTS (86%); MEDICARE (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); VETO (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); WAR CRIMES (75%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (68%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (65%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (92%) INDIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



496 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Calendar

 BODY:

Yankee Treasures
 Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street; (212)501-3000.
 ''Cherished Possessions: A New England Legacy,'' an exhibition of more than 100 objects from the mid-17th through the late 20th century, including furniture, ceramics, photographs, jewelry, paintings and textiles, will be at the center through June 5. 
 The objects are from the collections of Historic New England, formerly the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, an organization with 35 historic house museums. Open Tuesday through Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Thursday evenings until 8). Admission is $3; those 65 and older, $2; children under 12, no charge.
 Among the public programs to be offered are a gallery tour of the exhibition on Wednesday at 6:15 p.m. and a lecture about Mary Harrod Northend (1850-1926), who wrote books about Colonial New England architecture and culture, on April 26 at 6:15 p.m. The fee for each program is $17; students and those 65 and older, $12. Reservations are required for all public programs: (212)501-3011. All lectures take place in the lecture hall at 38 West 86th Street.
 On March 31 at 5:30 p.m. there will be a panel discussion about historic house museums in New England, with Ken Ames, a professor at the Bard center; Nancy Carlisle, the curator of ''Cherished Possessions''; and William Hosley, the former executive director of the Antiquarian and Landmarks Society in Hartford. Admission is $35; students and those 65 and older, $25. 
 There will also be a three-lecture series on the regional characteristics of design and decorative arts in New England: the topics will be textiles on April 7, architecture on May 10 and furniture on May 19. The fee for the series, which will take place from 6:15 to 7:30 p.m., is $50; students and those 65 and older, $35. Tickets for individual lectures, if available, will be $17; students and those 65 and older, $12, on May 10; and $20 (students and those 65 and older, $15) on other dates.

Rebuilding Downtown
 Skyscraper Museum, 39 Battery Place in Battery Park City; (212)968-1961. 
 Mary Beth Betts, an editor of ''The New York Waterfront: Evolution and Building Culture of the Port and Harbor'' (Monacelli, 2003), with Kevin Bone and Stanley Greenberg, will speak on Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Architecture, 536 La Guardia Place (Bleecker Street). The book explores the architectural and commercial history of the waterfront over the last 150 years. The lecture is free.
 ''City of Change: Downtown,'' an exhibition of photographs, maps, real estate records and drawings, will be at the museum through May 29. It looks at some of the area's major skyscrapers, like the Woolworth Building, the Singer Tower, 1 Liberty Plaza and the World Trade Center buildings, and how they changed the skyline and the character of Lower Manhattan. Open Wednesday through Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. Admission is $5; students and those 62 and older, $2.50.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PAINTING (78%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR THE PRESERVATION OF NEW ENGLAND ANTIQUITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



497 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Price Increases By Companies Start to Stick

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
In recent years, most companies were forced to absorb the higher costs of basic expenses like employee health care, raw materials and energy, focusing instead on squeezing more efficiencies from their workers and machines.
 But now, from airlines to manufacturers of advanced plastics, many businesses are overcoming their fears of losing customers and are starting to pass on cost increases. 
 After two months of virtually no inflation, the Labor Department reported yesterday that the Consumer Price Index jumped 0.4 percent in February, the fastest pace since October.
 Surging oil prices contributed substantially to the increase last month. But other prices also rose broadly, pushing the core Consumer Price Index -- a less volatile measure that excludes food and energy -- up by 0.3 percent, the sharpest increase since September. 
 The report came a day after the Federal Reserve, in raising interest rates for the seventh time in less than a year, expressed greater concern about the risk of higher inflation, citing evidence that some businesses are gaining increased ''pricing power'' in the marketplace. 
 Including energy and food costs, average prices are now 3 percent above their level a year earlier. Some consumer prices have risen even faster.
 Medical costs are 4.3 percent higher than a year ago; hotel rates have gained 7.3 percent; prices of dairy products are up 5.6 percent. 
 Excluding food and energy, consumer prices rose by 2.4 percent in the 12 months to February -- the fastest pace since the summer of 2002. 
 ''There seems to be a great deal of cost pressure,'' said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist of the National City Corporation, a banking company in Cleveland. ''Producer prices are rising faster and import prices are rising faster. These inflationary pressures are working their way through.'' 
 But worries about inflation among investors were tempered yesterday by a sharp slide in oil prices that took them below $54 a barrel, as the Energy Department reported that weekly crude inventories in the United States rose to their highest level since the summer of 2002. 
 Indeed, the value of the dollar against the euro and the yen rose in currency markets yesterday, with investors betting that the Fed's tougher language suggests it might be more aggressive about fighting inflation with higher interest rates.
 In the bond market, the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond, after initially falling in value, ended trading in New York up slightly; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 4.59 percent, from 4.64 percent Tuesday. On Wall Street, stocks were mixed, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Nasdaq composite index both up, while the Dow Jones industrial average fell slightly.
 Inflation has been slowly building for many months. Import prices have risen over the last two years, as the dollar has declined, relieving some pressure on domestic manufacturers to keep prices down.
 Moreover, from the prices of raw materials, which have risen 11 percent over the last 12 months, to the price of finished products at the factory gate, up 5 percent, producer prices have been rising considerably faster than the Consumer Price Index. Now, with a strengthening economy both domestically and abroad lifting demand, companies are finding it easier to raise prices again.
 ''It's the revenge of the business cycle,'' said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist of the Dreyfus Corporation, a mutual fund company. ''With the fed funds rate at a multi-decade low -- after a massive fiscal stimulus and after driving down the dollar for the past three years -- how shocked can you be that there is an upward shift in inflation?''
 Most American businesses had for some time been unable to pass on cost increases to consumers because there still was plenty of spare capacity and they were facing relentless competition from factories in cheap-labor countries like China and India.
 As robust demand growth has pushed the unemployment rate down and capacity use up, businesses have recovered some of their ability to price products.
 ''With fewer spare workers and less spare capacity, the trade-off between making more stuff and raising prices starts to change,'' said Andrew Tilton, an economist at Goldman, Sachs.
 Indeed, a nationwide survey of small and midsize businesses in February by the PNC Financial Services Group found that half planned to pass on cost increases to their customers, double the proportion that did two years ago.
 ''Everybody in the lighting industry is passing on cost increases,'' said Emma Price, owner of Edison Price Lighting in Long Island City, Queens. ''We have no choice. Our costs are rising extremely rapidly.''
 And price increases are sticking. ''These forces are operating on so many competitors,'' said Stuart Hoffman, PNC Financial's chief economist. ''When one raises prices, others follow.'' 
 Take Pacific Plastics and Engineering, a maker of high-technology plastic parts for medical devices and other precision equipment in Soquel, Calif. Despite double-digit increases in the cost of plastic resins over the last 18 months, the company kept prices flat, said Stephanie Harkness, the company's chief executive.
 ''You bite the bullet to ensure customers are not going to walk,'' she said.
 To protect its margins, the company squeezed efficiency, making the most out of its enterprise planning software. It required employees to shoulder a greater share of health insurance premiums.
 But eventually, Ms. Harkness said, ''you reach a point where you're as lean and mean as you can be.'' By mid-April, Pacific Plastics will have completed a broad evaluation of its pricing, and plans to pass on cost increases selectively to some customers. 
 Until energy price increases moderate and raw material costs soften, consumer prices are likely to move up. The increase in the Producer Price Index ''suggests there is more pressure in the pipeline,'' said Mr. Tilton, the Goldman economist. Still, despite the renewed inflationary concerns, few expect businesses' efforts to pass on higher costs will produce a spiraling round of price increases.
 For one thing, the force of global competition remains in place. And excluding health insurance, labor costs have not risen much. The average weekly earnings of the typical worker fell by 0.4 percent in February, after accounting for inflation. 
 Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute noted that the wages of average workers had fallen for 10 consecutive months in real terms -- the worst performance in a decade. 
 The upward movement of prices, Mr. Hoey said, ''is only a drift, not an explosion.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Heating Up''Inflation is at levels not consistently seen in four years.Graph tracks year-over-year change in prices for Core (less food and energy) and over all from 2000 to 2004.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedU.S.Percent change from previous:MONTH: +0.6YEAR: +3.0New YorkPercent change from previous:MONTH: +0.4YEAR: +3.9Los AngelesPercent change from previous:MONTH: +1.0YEAR: +3.8ChicagoPercent change from previous:MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.2Boston* (Jan.)Percent change from previous:MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +1.4Dallas* (Jan.)Percent change from previous:MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.4Detroit*Percent change from previous:MONTH: +1.3YEAR: +2.4Houston*Percent change from previous:MONTH: +2.7YEAR: +3.6Philadelphia*Percent change from previous:MONTH: +1.2YEAR: +4.5San Francisco*Percent change from previous:MONTH: +0.9YEAR: +1.6Washington* (Jan.)Percent change from previous:MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +3.6*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for February, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CHEMICALS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); IMPORT PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); FUTURES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); EURO (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); JAPANESE YEN (60%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Medicine and Health; Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Dairy Products; Reserves (Natural Resources); United States Economy; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US); Energy Department

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



498 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Accord Eludes Iran and Europeans

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, March 23 

 BODY:
Iran and its European negotiating partners struggled without success on Wednesday to break an impasse on reaching a long-term agreement on nuclear, economic and security cooperation.
 But the Iranian side presented new proposals to provide further assurances to the Europeans that Iran's nuclear program is peaceful, and the two sides have agreed to meet again soon, participants said. 
 ''We had rather extensive talks, and we presented a number of ideas on how we can move forward,'' M. Javad Zarif, ambassador to the United Nations and the leader of the delegation, said in a telephone interview. A European who took part in the meeting said, ''By the standards of international group bureaucracies and negotiations, we've moved forward a bit.'' 
 Senior negotiators from Iran on one side and France, Germany, Britain and the European Union on the other met at the French Foreign Ministry to review three months of negotiations aimed at providing objective proof that Iran's nuclear program is not intended to produce nuclear weapons.
 Among the ideas presented by the Iranians, participants said, was a phased approach including enhanced monitoring and technical guarantees devised to allow Iran to again enrich uranium, a process used in producing nuclear energy and nuclear bombs. But the Europeans reject that approach, arguing that Iran's nuclear activities are so suspicious that the country should never again be allowed to enrich uranium. 
 Sirus Naseri, a senior Iranian negotiator, told reporters after the talks on Wednesday that Iran would not give in to the European demand that it give up delicate nuclear activities. ''This is not something we are prepared to consider,'' he said. He reiterated the Iranian demand that concrete progress must be made soon. ''Time is of the essence,'' he said. 
 A European participant said, ''We are no further forward on this issue.''
 The meeting on Wednesday was the first by the negotiating teams since the Bush administration softened its position to allow the Europeans to offer broader economic incentives to Iran. In exchange, the United States has extracted a pledge from the Europeans to refer Iran's case to the United Nations for possible censure or penalties, if the negotiations fail. 
 The Europeans laid out the difficulties in the talks on March 10 in a confidential, four-page status report that acknowledged that ''progress is not as fast as we would wish.''
 But the report added that recent international support for the European negotiating process, particularly from the United States and Russia, ''has strengthened the prospects for a satisfactory outcome.'' 
 The report said that the Europeans were proposing that Iran acquire a light-water research reactor to replace a planned heavy-water research reactor, which is designed to produce plutonium that could be used to fuel weapons. 
 According to weapons specialists, plutonium is often preferred to enriched uranium for compact warheads on missiles because it takes less to produce a significant blast. Light-water reactors are considered better for producing electricity than plutonium.
 The Europeans are considering dispatching teams of specialists to Iran to investigate the possibility of providing it with such a reactor, a European negotiator said. That plan would ultimately require American support because some of the technologies needed are barred by United States restrictions. 
 On the security side, the report said the Iranians were seeking a relaxation of controls on goods exported to Iran as well as security guarantees. The Iran nuclear negotiations have already failed once. An agreement to suspend Iran's uranium enrichment activities announced with much fanfare in Tehran in the presence of the foreign ministers of Britain, France and Germany in October 2003 fell apart after Iran interpreted the deal loosely and continued some uranium enrichment activities. The three European nations negotiated a tougher agreement the second time around. 
 Iran's public posture has stiffened in recent weeks. In a news conference in Tehran on March 5, Hassan Rowhani, the midlevel cleric who is in charge of the nuclear negotiating team, threatened that if Iran's nuclear program was referred to the United Nations, Iran would resume enriching uranium. He also said that Iran would cease to abide by the Additional Protocol of the Nonproliferation Treaty. The Additional Protocol substantially expands the ability of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations' nuclear monitoring agency, to check for clandestine nuclear facilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Atomic Weapons; Economic Conditions and Trends; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) European Union

PERSON: Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) Iran; France; Germany; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



499 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Rebel Raider Takes Aim at Broadcast Giant in Japan

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 23 

 BODY:
It has happened before in the United States: a fast-growing Internet start-up sets its sights on an old-line media company, and, in the end, gets it. That was the AOL takeover of Time Warner in 2000.
 Until now, though, something like that seemed unlikely in Japan, where only a handful of hostile takeovers have been attempted. But a court ruling on Wednesday set the stage for a 32-year-old entrepreneur, Takafumi Horie, and his Internet company, Livedoor, to gain a majority stake in Nippon Broadcasting System Inc., a 50-year-old radio broadcaster.
 In addition, Mr. Horie's company, which offers Internet services and operates a Web portal similar to Yahoo, has a chance to gain significant influence over the management of Nippon's larger affiliate, Fuji Television Network, the core company in one of Japan's largest media groups. 
 Because the contentious battle for control of Nippon, which began last month when Livedoor announced that it had bought a controlling stake in the broadcaster, is a rarity for Japan, the clash is being followed with a media blitz befitting a celebrity murder trial. The spike-haired Mr. Horie, who prefers T-shirts and khakis, is being portrayed as the representative of a young, more Westernized Japan taking on the country's clubby corporate leaders.
 ''This is a young Japanese who has got a vision, and he's got the guts,'' said Jesper Koll, chief economist for Merrill Lynch in Tokyo. ''The Japanese are no longer afraid to take on their own elite.''
 The battle also highlights the shift in Japan from what is known as stakeholder capitalism, under which the interests of a company's employees, business partners or managers were often given higher priority than increasing the company's bottom line. Taking its place is an increasingly Western approach in which companies are under pressure to think first about their shareholders.
 The ruling on Wednesday by the Tokyo High Court blocked a planned move by Nippon to transfer a majority stake in itself to Fuji TV by issuing share warrants to the television company. Fuji would then have been able to convert the warrants into new shares in Nippon, potentially more than doubling the number of outstanding shares in the radio company. That would have greatly diluted the holdings of Livedoor and other current shareholders.
 But the High Court, upholding a lower court, said that the only purpose of the sale was to keep Nippon under the control of its current management and that the sale, therefore, did not have any strategic value. 
 ''It's regrettable, really regrettable,'' the president of Nippon, Akinobu Kamebuchi, said after the ruling. ''We were sure justice would be on our side but that was not accepted. It's really too bad.'' 
 He added that Nippon would scrap the warrant sale and was now evaluating what to do next. It could appeal the decision to the Supreme Court.
 The ruling clears the way for Livedoor, with a market capitalization of 236 billion yen, or $2.2 billion, to take over management of Nippon, with a market cap of 206 billion yen, or $1.9 billion, later this year. Livedoor had a 49.78 percent stake in Nippon Broadcasting as of last Thursday and was expected to be able accumulate a majority stake in time to elect its own directors to the broadcaster's board at the next shareholder meeting in June. 
 Livedoor raised the money it needed to buy the Nippon stock with a sale of 80 billion yen (about $750 million) in bonds, arranged by Lehman Brothers. The bonds would then be convertible to Livedoor stock after the purchase.
 ''We want to work now to raise the value of Nippon Broadcasting and its group companies,'' Mr. Horie said after learning of the court's decision.
 Mr. Horie has said he wants the radio broadcaster so he can advertise on its programs and draw listeners to his Internet sites and services. He also said he believed that traditional media and the Internet would inevitably become more closely integrated and he wanted to be at the forefront of the change in Japan.
 ''I tried to do business with broadcasters over the last five years but they are too slow to make decisions,'' Mr. Horie said in a speech this month. ''We have to speed up this process. Of course, everyone would prefer a friendly approach but I felt we don't have time for that friendly approach.''
 Gaining control of Nippon could also give Livedoor a strong say in the boardroom of Fuji TV, Japan's largest private television network, because Nippon is Fuji's largest shareholder, with a 22.5 percent stake.
 Media reports have said Mr. Horie has set his sights on increasing his stake in Fuji even further and the network has been beefing up its defenses against a takeover attempt. 
 This week, Fuji said it was prepared to issue up to 50 billion yen in new shares to fend off an unwanted bidder. The company also announced that it would raise its fiscal year-end dividend to 5,000 yen a share from the previously announced 1,200 yen, giving shareholders a strong incentive to hang on to their stocks.
 But a Livedoor executive suggested Wednesday that the company would take a more conciliatory approach toward Fuji TV than it had in its pursuit of Nippon. Livedoor does not intend to raise its stake in Fuji without the approval of that company's management, Livedoor's senior vice president, Fumito Kumagai, said Wednesday, according to a company spokesman, Koichiro Ohta.
 Mr. Horie, a college dropout, built Livedoor into one of the country's best-known Internet companies by combining a portal site with online brokerage and banking and a host of other Internet services. The company posted a profit of 3.58 billion yen for the year ended Sept. 30 on sales of 30.87 billion yen. By that measure, the company is still a long way behind its top rival, the Yahoo Japan Corporation, which had sales of 75.78 billion yen in its most recent fiscal year, which ended March 31, 2004.
 Aside from shaking up corporate Japan, Mr. Horie's takeover bid also promises to change the landscape for mergers and acquisitions in Japan. 
 Although Mr. Horie is Japanese, his aggressive tactics and early success have unleashed fears that a horde of foreign companies might try to buy up Japanese firms using his methods as a model. Although analysts say a wave of such acquisitions is unlikely, ruling-party politicians are nonetheless threatening to delay long-anticipated legal changes that would have allowed foreign companies to buy Japanese companies through stock swaps. 
 On the other hand, many analysts and lawyers say that the attention the battle has generated could lead to a more thorough overhaul of laws governing takeovers that would benefit the industry in the long run. 
 ''This is a very good event to educate Japanese people,'' said Nobutoshi Yamanouchi, a lawyer in the Tokyo office of the American law firm of Jones Day. ''Some people don't like to see Japan transforming into a Western-style society but in my opinion in order to have international or global competitiveness, this step is necessary.''
 Many ordinary Japanese have also applauded Mr. Horie's effort even if they find his aggressive style somewhat distasteful. Polls show that he has broad support for his takeover attempt among both younger and older Japanese.
 ''I like what's happening,'' said Hitashi Suzuki, a 35-year-old employee of a construction company in Tokyo. ''It is very modern and suits the time we live in. I wouldn't say I support Mr. Horie personally, but I think it is good that he fights for what he wants.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Takafumi Horie has said he wants to use Nippon Broadcasting System to draw attention to his Internet sites. (Photo by Michael Caronna/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); STARTUPS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (72%); MURDER (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LIVEDOOR CO LTD (85%); FUJI MEDIA HOLDINGS INC (74%); NIPPON BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (71%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%)

TICKER: 4676 (TSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



500 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Senate to Vote on Approach to Mercury Rule 

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H. 

 BODY:
Ron Lacroix has been fishing the waters of southeast New Hampshire -- Mendums Pond, Swains Lake, Bow Lake, Spruce Pond -- for a little less than half a century. He has made endless meals of fresh-caught black crappie, bass, and smelts and has been the host of endless fish fries. 
 So he was not pleased to find that his fishing grounds and fish contain high levels of mercury, a neurotoxin. 
 These lakes are nestled in one of the country's best-documented mercury ''hot spots,'' places with high concentration levels that experts believe probably come from the emissions of local power plants or other facilities, like incinerators. 
 ''You're worrying me,'' Mr. Lacroix said, when told that some of his favorite lakes were among those on the state government's list. 
 Last week the Environmental Protection Agency issued a rule to limit mercury emissions from power plants. But rather than requiring across-the-board cuts in emissions it gave companies the ability to buy and sell pollution allowances. In the short run, some plants could buy allowances from cleaner companies and delay making large expenditures to cut emissions.
 New Hampshire is one of the places that could be left to grapple with the emissions problem itself if local power plants -- chiefly the Bow plant of the local utility, Public Service of New Hampshire -- uses the flexibility the environmental agency granted last week to postpone a cleanup of what in 2003 was 116 pounds of mercury coursing upward from their stacks and raining down on the lands and waters to the southeast. 
 The Bow plant, known locally as the Merrimack plant for the river nearby, is one of hundreds in the country that, collectively, put out 48 tons of mercury annually, making them the largest single remaining source of airborne emissions of the toxic metal. In the 1990's federal regulation reduced emissions from other sources, like municipal incinerators. 
 Senior environmental agency officials said the economics of their approach would encourage the largest polluters to move first to control mercury. In addition, the new rule allows the states to issue more stringent regulations, or even ban their utilities from participating in the trading of pollution allowances. The State Senate is expected to vote Thursday on whether New Hampshire is going to choose one or both of those options. 
 Certainly, the testimony of a local utility official at a State Senate committee hearing last week indicated that the utility would be cautious about taking aggressive clean up measures on its own.
 ''We're not afraid of taking action,'' said William H. Smagula of Public Service of New Hampshire. ''We just want to take action when there's known science.''
 Speaking against the proposed legislation, which would put New Hampshire's cleanup timetable 10 years ahead of the E.P.A.'s, Mr. Smagula said, ''The only thing we know is that we'll spend a lot of money.''
 ''We don't know how much we will spend or what results we will achieve,'' Mr. Smagula added.
 He did not specifically address whether Public Service of New Hampshire would choose to buy pollution credits. In a later telephone interview, the company's spokesman, Martin Murray, indicated it could meet the first of the environmental agency's two deadlines without taking on improvements beyond those already under way. 
 Mr. Murray added that the state's utility regulators once investigated the company when it adopted expensive cleanup tools that achieved results beyond those that were legally required. 
 Worries about hot spots, like southeast New Hampshire, were one of the chief arguments marshaled by environmental groups against allowing the trading of credits. Unlike nitrogen oxide or sulfur dioxide, the mercury emitted from power plants is a toxin for which there are no other general, national or region-wide controls. 
 At least two epidemiological studies have shown that mercury can hurt neurological and cognitive development in infants; one more recent study suggests it might be implicated in heart attacks.
 New England is more than familiar with mercury and other pollutants from coal-fired power plants. ''We're at the end of the national tailpipe,'' said Matt Prindiville an environmentalist with the Natural Resources Council of Maine, at the hearing. 
 ''Mercury levels are high and persistent in New England,'' David C. Evers, a scientist with the Maine-based Biodiversity Research Institute, told the Senate committee. Dr. Evers specializes in studies of mercury in loons, a fish-eating, lake-dwelling bird beloved by many New Englanders.
 One of these is Carl R. Johnson, the 83-year-old Republican state senator who is chairman of the Environment and Wildlife Committee and also a member of the policy board of the Loon Preservation Committee, a private group. 
 Scientific studies by Dr. Evers and others, in the latest issue of the journal Ecotoxicology, thoroughly document, through loon and fish studies, the unusually high level of mercury pollution in this region. But it is harder to document their source. 
 ''Mercury is a very tricky pollutant because it transports and it pollutes locally,'' said Jeff Underhill, a scientist with the State Department of Environmental Services.
 Mr. Underhill told the committee that 90 percent of the emissions responsible for a separate hot spot in northern New Hampshire come from out of state. But, he added, ''the closer you get to our sources, the lower the overall out-of-state percentage.'' Downwind of a power plant, he added, as much as 80 to 90 percent of the mercury deposits can come from that single source.
 Mr. Smagula of Public Service said he was skeptical. 
 ''A large volume of data is based on analytical assumptions and conclusions,'' he told the committee. ''We don't do business on the basis of analytical assumptions and conclusions.'' 
 The measure, as approved by the committee last week, requires that mercury emissions from power plants be cut to 50 pounds annually by 2008 -- 10 years ahead of the E.P.A.'s timetable for New Hampshire. By 2010, maximum emissions would be 24 pounds. In response to the testimony of Nancy Girard, vice president of the Conservation Law Foundation's New Hampshire Advocacy Center, the committee approved an amendment to the bill that would prohibit the emissions trading.
 Even if the State Legislature decides to take that route, it is not clear how quickly mercury levels would drop in local waters and the fish within them.
 Fishermen like Mr. Lacroix are concerned, but he at least has not changed his ways. ''You don't want to know how many fish I've eaten from those ponds,'' Mr. Lacroix said in an interview. The black crappie he caught in Round Pond, downwind from the plant near Patuckway state park, ''almost had a metallic taste to them. They had a taste that was different.''
 But, while Mr. Lacroix, a meat cutter, worries, he has not cut back on his fish consumption. 
 ''I eat more fish than most people do,'' he said. ''I probably eat it two, three times a week.''
 Art Cunningham, a retired lawyer who volunteers with the Conservation Law Foundation's New Hampshire office, fishes for fun and throws back his catches, but is also concerned about mercury contamination. When Mr. Cunningham went fishing recently in Rollins Pond, he saw a new sign. 
 ''There was this mercury warning sign -- fish consumption can be dangerous,'' he said. ''My immediate reaction was: Isn't that a shame. A beautiful rural spot, a pretty pond, and it's got dangerous levels of mercury.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A new federal rule allows power companies, like Public Service of New Hampshire, which owns the plant, above, in Bow, N.H., to buy and sell pollution allowances for mercury.
 Art Cunningham, a retired lawyer who fishes for fun but throws back his catches, said he was concerned about mercury contamination. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)Map of New Hampshire shows the location of the Merrimack Station Power Plant: The Bow plant is called the Merrimack plant for the river nearby.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); FISHES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LAKES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); LEGISLATION (85%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (69%) Air Pollution; Coal; Electric Light and Power; Mercury (Metal); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation ; States (US); Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%) Environmental Protection Agency; Public Service of New Hampshire

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



501 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L. Owners Pick New York For Super Bowl

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

DATELINE: KAPALUA, Hawaii, March 23 

 BODY:
By a 31-to-1 vote, National Football League owners awarded the 2010 Super Bowl to New York on Wednesday, contingent on the Jets' completing a stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan in time for the 2009 season.
 That Super Bowl will not be played in New York unless the Jets win their bidding war with two other companies for the right to build on the proposed stadium site, which extends from 30th Street to 33rd Street and from 11th Avenue to 12th Avenue.
 On Monday, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns the property, received a $720 million bid from the Jets, a $1 billion bid from TransGas Energy Systems and a bid of more than $600 million from Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden. The authority is not compelled to take the highest bid, and the announcement of the winner is scheduled for March 31. 
 If the Jets win, they will move forward with their stadium plans. If the Jets lose, the proposal for a stadium on the site will be dead, and so will the 2010 Super Bowl for New York.
 L. Jay Cross, the Jets' president, said he thought the stamp of approval from the league's owners would help the Jets win the bid. The proposed stadium is also part of New York's bid for the 2012 Olympics.
 ''We're very confident,'' Cross said in an interview after the Super Bowl vote. ''We've been at it four years. We're going to bring the world's greatest event to the world's greatest city. What could be better?''
 Not everyone agrees, most notably Cablevision, which has fought to block construction of a new stadium a few blocks from the Garden. There has also been opposition from neighborhood and civic groups.
 ''They view us as competition for the Garden, which we view as a little bit of overkill,'' Cross said. ''To somehow suggest that the island of Manhattan can only support Madison Square Garden, and anything else would somehow be the death knell of sports and entertainment in Manhattan, is preposterous.''
 Cross said the stadium project would cost $1.9 billion, excluding the land. The city and the state would each contribute $300 million. Ground must be broken by this summer to complete the stadium by 2009.
 The 75,000-seat stadium would have a retractable roof and 240 to 250 luxury suites. It would be used most of the year as a convention center and would be capable of playing host to college football and basketball, soccer and rugby. Cross envisioned the stadium one day being the site of the Final Four.
 ''N.B.A. arenas aren't big enough for Final Fours anymore,'' he said.
 It was hardly surprising that the owners voted to award the 2010 Super Bowl to New York, particularly with Commissioner Paul Tagliabue in support of it. According to an N.F.L. official, the Buffalo Bills were the only franchise that voted against New York.
 Most owners say that the Jets, who now share Giants Stadium with the Giants, will be a stronger franchise with their own stadium.
 ''I'm a big supporter of the stadium project in New York City,'' said Robert Kraft, owner of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots. ''I think it will be a great economic catalyst to the city. I think it's great for the N.F.L. I'm happy we had the vote we had. I think it's one of the real special things we can do the next few years.''
 But Cross and the Jets' front office will be nervous until next week, when it will learn if it has won the bid.
 ''We've invested too much time and money to get this far,'' Cross said. ''There's only one way to go. I think we're in the red zone.''

EXTRA POINTS
 N.F.L. owners will wait until May to decide whether to prohibit players from grabbing ball carriers by the inside collar of the shoulder pads and immediately pulling down the runner. Several players were injured while being tackled that way last season, including Terrell Owens of the Philadelphia Eagles. If the measure passes, a 15-yard penalty against the defense would be called on that play. Teams did vote for calling unnecessary roughness penalties against players who throw blocks against opponents who are clearly out of the play, particularly punters and kickers. Peel-back blocks below the knee will now be called penalties, even if the blocked player has moved outside the tackle box. A proposal to make all pass interference penalties 15 yards was voted down. ... Bidding for the 2009 Super Bowl continues, and the site will be chosen in May. The bidders are Tampa, Fla., Miami, Houston and Atlanta. ... Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said the owners made progress on the collective bargaining agreement, but he scheduled a special owners meeting for April 19 in Atlanta in the hope of continuing the momentum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SOCCER (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); OLYMPICS (65%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (65%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



502 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Export Opportunities Aren't Just for the Big Guys

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
About the time the Wiggins Lift Company decided last year to open an office in England and expand in Europe, a wonderful thing happened. The euro became worth more than $1.25.
 The fall of the dollar's value against the European currency -- the euro is now worth $1.30, up from 87 cents three years ago -- made Wiggins's giant forklifts more affordable in Britain, Italy, Spain and elsewhere, and sales took off. Europeans were eager to modernize their marinas, so they wanted Wiggins lifts, which can cost as much as $500,000 each, because they can raise 40-foot powerboats out of the water and gently stack them on racks ashore.
 Wiggins's factory in Oxnard, Calif., could hardly keep up with demand, but some customers were happy to make deposits on lifts that would not be delivered for 6, 8 or even 12 months, said Michael P. Marzahl, the company's marketing and customer-relations manager. ''They want to jump on it before the euro falls,'' he said. 
 Other small businesses, which make everything from computer security hardware to toothpaste, are also reporting sales gains as the dollar falls. The Commerce Department does not gather data specifically on the volume of exports by small businesses, but the Small Business Administration estimates that the number of small businesses exporting goods or services has tripled in the last 10 years, and the value of what they sell abroad has tripled in just the last five years.
 A large part of that gain has come in sales to Canada and Mexico, driven by the North American Free Trade Agreement, says Manuel A. Rosales, the Small Business Administration's principal adviser on international trade. He says his agency estimates that 97,000 small businesses export to those two countries alone, and the total value of those exports was about $50 billion last year.
 But as Wiggins Lifts shows, the gains are also coming in Europe or anywhere else that the dollar has slid in value against the local currency. ''For a small U.S. manufacturer like ourselves,'' said Mr. Marzahl, ''it's been very good.''
 Not all small businesses see sales opportunities overseas, of course. But many small businesses who do not may want to take a closer look. Faribor Ghadar, a professor of finance and director of the Global Business Study Center at Pennsylvania State University, divides small and midsize exporters into four categories: two that stand to gain from a weak dollar and two that do not.
 Businesses with unique products, like supercomputer support of biotechnology research, do not, because customers have nowhere else to go. At the other end of the technology spectrum, companies that make generic products in competitive fields, like clothing or toys, do not, because they still cannot compete against low-cost rivals in Asia and elsewhere.
 But a weaker dollar can benefit small brand-name exporters that piggyback on global brands, like those that sell components for I.B.M. computers or Cisco routers, Dr. Ghadar says. It can also help exporters in competitive fields that have an intimate relationship with their customers, like toolmakers or auto-parts suppliers, if they have the means to deliver their products quickly and transfer payments back to the United States at low cost, he said. In both those cases, Dr. Ghadar said, the weaker dollar has made coveted American brands that once seemed out of reach to some foreign buyers much more affordable.
 That is certainly the experience of Britestream Networks, a company in Austin, Tex., that makes computer-security hardware and is actively seeking to expand exports, especially in Asia. Buyers there are notoriously tight-fisted, but Bob Weinschenk, Britestream's chief executive, says their resistance has crumbled along with the greenback.
 ''Especially in some of the more cost-conscious markets, I'm not hearing any more concerns about prices,'' Mr. Weinschenk said. 
 The weak dollar has not only helped increase his company's sales, it has also helped to control its costs, he added. As the dollar began its slide, Britestream stocked up on screws, brackets and other materials it buys overseas. ''We just went out and bought everything we could,'' Mr. Weinschenk said.
 Mr. Weinschenk said he had dispatched 15 sales representatives to Asia, three times as many as in Europe, which is the company's second-largest market after America. Not only is he hoping to drum up more sales, he says, he is also aiming to build up personal relationships that will sustain his relationships with clients if the dollar turns up. ''It's not so much about saving a penny or two on each unit,'' he said. ''It's about, 'Can I trust this person?'''
 It is not necessary for small businesses to field a flock of sales representatives abroad. Edward Cutler, for one, found that the Internet did a lot of that work for him. His company, Squigle Inc., in Narberth, Pa., northwest of Philadelphia, makes a special mild toothpaste for people who cannot tolerate the foaming agents and other harsh chemicals in mass-produced products.
 Squigle focused on the domestic market after Mr. Cutler, who has a doctorate in chemistry, introduced his toothpaste in 1998. But as news spread over the Internet, Squigle started receiving inquiries from Taiwan, Turkey and elsewhere around the world. One customer, a canker-sore sufferer in Britain, was so enthusiastic about the toothpaste that he began importing Squigle to England for sale there.
 That was good news for Mr. Cutler because it let him expand abroad at little cost or risk, and he said he was most eager to start selling beyond America. ''We're looking to sell overseas for the same reason the big companies do: most of the world's population lies outside the United States,'' he said. 
 It is ideal when he can find a distributor abroad, rather than having to bother with individual orders for his toothpaste, which retails for $7 to $11 for a four-ounce tube. ''It is just easier to deal with distributors,'' he said. ''We prefer to deal in master shippers of 144 tubes. We don't have to do anything then but slap a label on it.''
 Without a doubt, exporting complicates many processes for small-business owners, from shipping to collecting receivables. These include bills of lading, letters of credit and customs forms at both ends, said Mr. Rosales, the Small Business Administration official. There is also the crucial task of picking the right market, one that is open to the particular product to be exported but not crowded with established local competitors.
 The government offers free advice on the practical points of exporting for small-business owners, through the Web site www.export.gov, which coordinates assistance from federal agencies, including the Commerce Department, the State Department and the Small Business Administration.
 Personal help is available at 16 export assistance centers that the Office of International Trade at the S.B.A. operates around the country and at more than 100 centers that the Commerce Department's commercial service runs.
 Giant exporters like Boeing, Microsoft and the Hollywood studios get most of the attention when people talk about export opportunities, said Harvey D. Bronstein, a senior international economist at the S.B.A., but there is no reason that small companies cannot join them.
 ''The dollar will only encourage more exporting from the United States,'' he said, ''and small business will get its share.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Wiggins Lift worker welds a machine that pulls boats out of the water. Lifts can cost as much as $500,000. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)
Some Wiggins customers have made deposits on lifts that will not be delivered for months. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)Chart: ''Exporting Tips''SEEK OUT EXPERT HELP -- Learn what is involved in exporting, including product labeling, financing and shipping requirements. The locations of the Small Business Administration export assistance centers can be found at http://www.sba.gov/oit/export/useac.html. The location of the Commerce Department's centers can be found at http://www.export.gov/comm--svc/eac.html.CHOOSE THE RIGHT MARKETS -- First-time exporters should focus on one or two countries.DEVELOP CONTACTS -- Find qualified international buyers, partners or agents without traveling overseas.ARRANGE FINANCING -- Government agencies and private banks can help raise capital, and government-backed insurance programs can finance transactions and reduce risk.INSURE EXPORTS -- Properly label, document and insure the shipment
a professional freight forwarder can help here.DO FOLLOW-UP -- Good service can help an export effort grow
 bad service can cause it to fail.(Source by Department of Commerce)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); US DOLLAR (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ENGLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



503 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Ski Industry Stumbles on Age and Economy

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SHIGA KOGEN, Japan 

 BODY:
The Japanese Alps sparkled in the sun after fresh powder dusted this ski resort, the largest in Asia. But on a recent weekday morning, almost 20 percent of the 71 lifts were closed; a long string of chairs climbing a mountain flank was empty except for one black-clad figure.
 Despite copious snow, fresh air and stunning views, the number of skiers in Japan, the world's second-largest skiing nation, has dropped by more than a third in the last decade. 
 ''Ten to 15 years ago, I remember I had a hard time booking hotels,'' Atsushi Hara, 33, said while resting after a run at Sun Valley, a small resort in this huge mountain complex. ''Now, it's so easy to reserve a room. I even see signs saying that there are rooms.'' 
 Over all, about 13 million lift tickets are expected to have been sold in Japan this season, down from 18.6 million in 1993. One reason is the aging of the country's population, said Yoshio Sato, president of the Japanese Institute of Free Time and Sports. ''Skiing,'' he said, ''is a sport that attracts young people.''
 But the ski industry's woes are also a microcosm of a broader discontent in Japan, as an economically stagnant society resists changing in response to new conditions. Many ski resorts still ban snowboarding, and only a handful of them have shut down, leading to overcapacity. That, in turn, causes prices to drop, which scares away new investment. 
 By contrast, the American ski and snowboard industry is generally healthy, having gone through a shakeout of marginal resorts in the 1970's that allowed the rest of the industry to focus on attracting new winter sports buffs as older skiers chose other leisure activities.
 The American industry recorded an annual average of 56.6 million visits in the first four winters of this decade, slightly above the average in the 1990's and 18 percent higher than levels of the 1980's, according to the National Ski Areas Association, a trade group in Denver.
 As in the United States, the number of winter leisure options in Japan has increased sharply. But in a Japanese twist, younger people who might have been attracted to skiing are instead being drawn into the national addiction to mobile phones. Teenagers and young adults often spend $200 a month for hand-held games, messaging, news services and ring tones.
 ''In addition to cellphones,'' Mr. Sato said, ''they have to buy laptop computers -- which uses up the money they would use to buy skis.'' 
 The Japanese are now buying half a million pairs of skis each winter, down sharply from 2.5 million at the peak in the winter of 1992-93.
 And the sport's image has been tarnished for many by memories of high school trips where skiing was mandatory and the apres ski meant sitting in a hotel room. 
 ''If a student did not obey the teacher, the teacher would order the student to sit on the snow like on a Japanese tatami mat,'' Nobuo Okazawa, a hotel owner here, said recalling scenes as recent as the 1990's. 
 But even as the number of skiers has declined, the number of Japanese ski areas has barely changed. In the last five years, only 4 have closed, leaving 718 still operating. Some companies, burdened with property taxes and mindful of the social impact of closing resorts in one-industry towns, walked out of the business by selling their ski area to the local municipality for one yen. The resulting overcapacity, while good for skiers in the short term, makes it harder for the bigger resorts to generate profits.
 ''Those guys are not going to let those resorts fail,'' said Michael Berry, president of the National Ski Areas Association, in a telephone interview from Denver, ''even when there is no reason for them to exist anymore.''
 Mr. Okazawa said he had kept his Villa Alpen hotel open largely by relying on personal charm and contacts he developed as a ski instructor in France and Italy. With its sun-faded curtains and yellowing wallpaper patched with adhesive tape, the Villa Alpen, like many hotels here, has a decor frozen in the glory days of the 1970's. 
 With more rooms going empty, Mr. Okazawa strives for maximum revenue by placing coin meters on every possible gadget -- television sets, ski-boot dryers, even foot-massage vibrators. Four years ago, he and his son made their only capital investment in recent memory, replacing the hotel's water boiler on their own, saving the cost of hiring professionals.
 Downhill skiing really took off in Japan when a lift was built at Shiga Kogen as recreation for American soldiers during the occupation after World War II. Later, skiing won a strong Japanese following when Chiharu Igaya, a youth from Hokkaido, won a silver medal at the 1956 Winter Olympics. The biggest encouragement came with ''Take Me Skiing,'' a hit romance movie in 1987.
 ''It's a fad-driven country, and after 'Take Me Skiing,' just about every young person had to do it,'' said T.R. Reid, a Denver-based journalist who wrote a Japan ski guide in 1994. He recalled hourlong lift lines in the 1980's.
 In this area, about 125 miles northwest of Tokyo, the puncturing of Japanese prosperity has meant the closing of almost half the 73 guesthouses that companies opened in the go-go years. With Shiga Kogen bearing a reputation for high prices, other ski areas between here and Tokyo are luring away people with discount offers, like full-day lift tickets and lunch for the equivalent of $35.
 This huge resort complex has been slow to react, partly because there is no clear chain of command. Decisions are made by 17 area owners, an association of hotel owners and a separate association of landowners. The resort area, situated in a national park, is hobbled by park rules that prohibit the conversion of half-empty hotels into retail and after-ski venues.
 The solution, many Japanese and outsiders say, is to close marginal ski hills and invest to make the major areas attractive to more Japanese as well as to exert more effort in luring foreign visitors.
 That approach is transforming the golf industry. With the number of golfers in Japan down to 10 million from 15 million a decade ago, American companies have bought almost 10 percent of Japan's 2,400 golf courses, usually at steep discounts. After cutting fees and instituting family-friendly policies, many of these courses now make a profit.
 ''Some of the Japanese mountains will close,'' said Roger Donazzan, executive chairman of Harmony Resorts Niseko, a private Australian company that bought the Niseko area of Hokkaido last fall. In the first major foreign investment in Japanese skiing, Mr. Donazzan plans to spend about $200 million through 2010 for a new base at the mountain village able to lodge 8,000 visitors.
 In another area, the Arai Mountain and Spa resort opened in 2002 with a base village copied from Western models. 
 ''We are putting particular emphasis on young families with small kids,'' Hiroshi Kojima, the Arai manager, said in English honed while managing an American ski resort in the 1990's. ''With the kids' playground, parents can be hands-off. They can ski while kids are being taken care of.''
 Although the government has set a goal of doubling the number of foreign visitors by 2010, the concept of catering to foreign skiers is still unfamiliar to many Japanese managers. Shiga Kogen may be the largest ski area in Asia, with 1,500 acres of slopes, but almost everything is written in Japanese.
 ''By next season, almost all our trail maps, signs and menus will be in English and Japanese,'' Mr. Donazzan said. ''Then we are going to add Korean and Chinese.''
 Australians are responding to the new emphasis on English. In November, Australian Airlines, a unit of Qantas, began twice-a-week service flights between Cairns, in the north of Queensland, and Sapporo. Since then, flights have been booked solid as Australians discovered that a ski vacation in Japan means no jet lag and can cost about half that of a North American trip.
 Next will be promoting skiing to South Koreans, where an estimated four million skiers crowd into 13 resorts. A precedent of sorts has already been established: with 15,000 golfers for every course at home, some Koreans are now flying to Japan for golfing weekends.
 The big prize would be China. The Salomon & Taylor Made Company, a Japanese subsidiary of Adidas-Salomon, has set a 10-year goal of selling the same volume of ski goods in China as in Japan. And while Japanese visa policies largely restrict Chinese tourists to groups, China has the potential to pump new life into ski areas.
 ''Basically it's a good thing,'' Mr. Sato, president of the sports institute, said of the glimmers of foreign interest in Japanese skiing. ''If foreign investors enter, we could see the maturing of Japanese resorts into European-style ones.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There was space available on chair lifts last month at the Shiga Kogen ski area, the largest in Asia. With business down sharply, an employee at an equipment-rental room, below, waited at length for customers. (Photographs by Elena Aframova for The New York Times)Map of Japan highlighting Shiga Kogen ski resort: Many guesthouses have closed near the Shiga Kogen ski area.Chart: ''In Japan, Quieter Snow''The number of people who went skiing or snowboarding in Japan at least once in each year has fallen by more than 25 percent since 1993.Graph tracks number of skiers and snowboarders (counted since '97) from 1993 to 2003.(Source by Japan Productivity Center for Socio-Economic Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (94%); MOUNTAINS (91%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SNOWBOARDING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (84%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



504 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; When a Stranger Calls, From Afar or Nearby; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: An Internet phone service creates a network of users willing to advise, tutor or simply chat with all comers.

BYLINE: By ETHAN TODRAS-WHITEHILL

 BODY:
JOHN PERRY BARLOW is pretty free and open, but he's no simpleton. So when he signed on to Skype, a free Internet phone service, and a woman identifying herself as Kitty messaged him, saying, ''I need a friend,'' he was skeptical. He figured she was ''looking for 'friends' to come watch her 'relax' in her Webcam-equipped 'bedroom.'''
 Nevertheless, he took the call. ''Will you talk to me?'' she said. ''I want to practice my English.'' 
 Kitty turned out to be Dzung Vu My, 22, a worker at an oil company in Hanoi, Vietnam. They spoke for a long time, exchanging text, photographs and Web addresses, and discussing everything from the state of Vietnam's economy to Ms. My's father's time in the army. 
 ''One doesn't get random phone calls from Vietnam,'' Mr. Barlow, 57, the former Grateful Dead lyricist and co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit advocacy organization for an unfettered Internet, wrote on his blog. ''At least, one never could before.''
 Mr. Barlow's experience is not unique. Skype users report unsolicited contacts every day, and contrary to such experiences with phone and e-mail, the calls are often welcomed. 
 Skype was founded by Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, the creators of Kazaa, a peer-to-peer file-sharing service. Skype is one of a few hundred companies in the United States that let people talk to one another over the Internet using just their computers and a headset, a microphone or a conventional phone. 
 The technology, known as Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP), is offered by phone and cable companies like AT&T and Comcast as well as instant-messaging services like Yahoo's and MSN's. Skype says that it has over 2.8 million users in the United States and 30.6 million worldwide and that it is adding users at a rate of 155,000 a day. Skype's biggest competitor, Vonage, a paid VoIP service, has about 550,000 customers.
 A reason Skype is so popular is that it is free. Another is that it works. That may not seem like much, but it matters when calls with other free VoIP programs sound more like walkie-talkie conversations than phone calls. Skype also has unusual features: users can search the database of Skype users by such fields as age, language and nationality. 
 When Skype began, in August 2003, this search feature resulted in unwanted calls for some people. In response, Skype added the Skype Me feature in 2004. Users can now set their user status to Skype Me if they are interested in receiving calls from strangers and search for other users in the same mode. 
 A preponderance of the random calls involve people ''Skyping'' one another to practice a certain language (as with Mr. Barlow's experience), but other people seem to be calling simply because they can. 
 In February 2004, John Andersen, 57, a software engineer in Juneau, Alaska, was contacted out of the blue by two retired couples in Sydney, Australia, planning a cruise through Alaska's Inside Passage region that summer. They wanted to know the best helicopter glacier tours and fishing excursions in Juneau, and Mr. Andersen was happy to send them links through Skype. 
 They made plans to meet, but Mr. Andersen was away when the couples visited. ''I did get a very nice e-mail from them saying the trip had gone off without a hitch,'' Mr. Andersen said. ''It's like ham radio for the Internet.''
 This was something I had to try. I picked up a $25 headset and microphone combination, downloaded the free software from the Web site (skype.com), put a few personal details in my user profile (male, New York, favorite color green) and set my user status to Skype Me. Despite what I had heard, I wasn't convinced that I would get any calls.
 Within 15 minutes, I had more callers than I could handle. In the five days I was in Skype Me mode, I received more than 30 calls and messages from Morocco, Russia, China, Poland, Argentina, Israel and several other countries.
 One of my most interesting chats was with Billy Einkamerer, 27, a freelance Web developer in Johannesburg. I messaged him first, the Skype equivalent of knocking on the door before barging in. He taught me a little Afrikaans, and we commiserated over our mutual inability to multitask. 
 I do some Web design myself, so through Skype's instant-messaging feature we traded links to sites we had done; he found an error on one of mine, which I quickly corrected. It was a pretty afternoon in Brooklyn, so I took a snapshot out the window and sent it to him. 
 Near the end of our conversation, Mr. Einkamerer got a call from his friend Gerhard Jacobs, also 27 and from Johannesburg. Mr. Jacobs runs an information technology company. Mr. Einkamerer conferenced him into the call, and the three of us made jokes about our accents.
 It felt like the early days of AOL, another environment in which people contacted others randomly. But voice brings to life the other person in a way that typing cannot, like hearing Mr. Einkamerer laugh at my jokes. The instant-messaging environment is anonymous; with voice, you cannot hide from the other person.
 Moreover, the voice quality over Skype is actually superior to traditional phone service. Standard telecommunications are restricted to the 0 to 3.4 kilohertz range to limit the bandwidth consumed; Skype transmits at 0.5 to 8 kilohertz, according to a Columbia University study in 2004. It feels intimate because it is; more of the users' voices reach each other. 
 There are problems with Skype Me mode. Skype Me users are subject to the undesirable solicitors familiar to e-mail and phone users: spammers, scammers and perverts. Skype is starting to see its fair share of all these groups: one user who contacted me was a Nigerian ''model'' who requested my help depositing $4,000 in an American bank account -- a classic scheme.
 In addition, the blogging community is reporting scattered Skype telemarketers, and women who identify themselves as such in their profile report a bombardment of unwelcome advances when they enter Skype Me mode. These problems appear to be growing.
 Skype users can limit callers to people on their contact list, so if the nuisance calls become substantial, the number of users who choose Skype Me mode -- already only a tiny fraction of users, according to Kelly Larabee, a Skype spokeswoman -- could disappear entirely.
 Government intervention is not a likely fix. In February 2004, the Federal Communications Commission issued the Pulver Order, named after the VoIP pioneer Jeff Pulver, which states that ''pure'' computer-to-computer VoIP services like Skype and Mr. Pulver's Free World Dialup are no different from the unregulated instant-messaging programs and are not subject to the traditional phone service taxes and regulations. 
 The Pulver Order is viewed as a victory by many in the VoIP community, including Skype, but it has potentially negative implications for the Skype Me callers: no regulation means no do-not-call list, which means Skype Me users, particularly women, will continue to receive unwanted and unfriendly calls. 
 Even without government intervention, however, random Skyping appears likely to continue in some form. The next phase may be more formalized Skype-enabled social networks like www.jyve.com, which connects people with similar interests and desire to practice a certain language, and www.someonenew.com, which connects people for romantic purposes. Only a few English-language social networking sites currently use Skype, but such sites in Asia have been very successful. 
 Jyve, according to Charles Carleton, a co-founder, will be introducing a feature in the next few months that Mr. Carleton hopes will protect the medium's social capabilities: an eBay-like feedback system to help users reject callers with a track record of inappropriate conversation. Skype is happy to leave these functions to other companies. ''We're probably never going to run a dating service or language seminars,'' Ms. Larabee said of Skype. ''Our business is the technology, not the networks.''
 Mr. Barlow, who has been inviting people to Skype him for three months, with 20 takers, believes that Skype's intimate feel will be sufficient to keep the Skype Me phenomenon alive.
 ''There's something confessional about this space,'' Mr. Barlow said about Skype. He was in Madrid for a conference, and I was in New York. ''It's like a long over-the-ocean flight where the other guy starts telling you stuff that you're astonished to hear and you start talking about stuff you're astonished to say. The combination of anonymity and intimacy creates a special kind of environment.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: HELPFUL -- John Andersen, a software engineer, used the Skype free Internet phone service to help Australians plan a trip to Juneau, Alaska. (Photo by Mark Kelley for The New York Times)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (68%); SONG WRITING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SKYPE SARL (92%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION (55%)

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (56%) ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (87%); VIETNAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



505 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2511 words

HEADLINE: In Pataki's Time, SUNY Runs More Like Private Universities

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 23 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki was fuming at the State University of New York.
 Two months into his first term in 1995, SUNY leaders strode before television cameras and thundered that Mr. Pataki's budget cuts would close or merge eight campuses, increase tuition by 60 percent and eliminate 2,500 jobs, mostly faculty members.
 The governor publicly dismissed the doomsday notion as part of a Chicken Little strategy to undermine the cuts he was making to plug a $5 billion state budget deficit. Aides said he thought it was a breathtaking act of insubordination by a university that was technically under his aegis. But he relished knowing that he had the power to fill about half the seats on the SUNY board of trustees that year. 
 ''I believe we have the ability to make a number of appointments at the present time, and we'll be doing that,'' the governor told reporters that day.
 In the decade since, Mr. Pataki has left a greater imprint on SUNY than any other governor since Nelson A. Rockefeller, whose lasting legacy to New York includes the 64-campus system. Mr. Pataki's has been a largely invisible hand: he has acted through his trustees to alter SUNY's priorities and, some say, has politicized the system's board with appointees more attuned to conservative thinking. He has tied SUNY's fortunes to alliances with the business sector, making SUNY an important economic player from Buffalo to Albany to Long Island.
 Because of Mr. Pataki, SUNY in many ways operates like a private university today. Tuition and fees have risen by 75 percent since 1995, partly replacing taxpayer funds. The state's share of financing for core academics has declined to 55.6 percent from 68.6 percent for all four-year campuses. The campuses have raised $1 billion in donations since 1999, and toughened admissions standards. Applicants typically need a 1,200 on the SAT for Geneseo, Binghamton and Stony Brook, while 1,150 would do five years ago. Applicants are assured a spot only at the 30 community colleges, which essentially have open admissions.
 Then there is national reputation, or buzz, which helps draw the best students and influences the U.S. News & World Report college ranking system, which is followed closely by students and parents.
 Here SUNY lags, according to independent experts. By several yardsticks, it remains behind the public universities of California, North Carolina and Virginia. SUNY, which has 413,000 students, lacks the huge endowments, Division I sports titans, prestigious Ph.D. programs, out-of-state students or other hallmarks of what are called the ''public Ivies.''
 To be sure, SUNY is young (assembled in 1948, well after Thomas Jefferson chartered the University of Virginia), and its top campuses have to vie against the prestigious, well-established colleges in the Northeast. But some university experts see another brake on SUNY's progress in the Pataki era: politics.
 The governor's 15 trustees are lightning rods for many academics who see the board as micromanaging conservatives. Faculty members revolted in 1999 with votes of no-confidence against the trustees over their proposed core curriculum, which to some scholars had a right-wing cast. SUNY's chancellor, Robert L. King, is a former budget director under Mr. Pataki. Democrats have accused the governor of hocking the Rockefeller inheritance by cutting New York's share of the $4.8 billion budget for SUNY's four-year campuses to 38 percent from 45.5 percent to pay for tax cuts.
 ''SUNY has become nationally known, not for having a Berkeley or a Michigan, but for being a political place,'' said David W. Breneman, an expert on public higher education and dean of the education school at the University of Virginia.
 Around the Legislature, the City University of New York is the darling, enjoying an academic renaissance under its intellectual administrators. SUNY is seen as the problem child. Talk of Chancellor King's ambitious plan to add more predictability to tuition increases has to compete with recent negative news reports about the three chauffeurs who drive Mr. King and other SUNY officials. And on Wednesday night, Senate and Assembly legislators reached an agreement rejecting the governor's proposed $500 tuition increase for each university system, although Mr. Pataki said that agreement was still subject to negotiations on the overall state budget.
 ''SUNY has made a lot of progress in the last decade, but they also have this capacity for shooting themselves in the foot,'' said Stephen Portch, a consultant to the SUNY trustees and a former chancellor of Georgia's university system. ''If you add up the controversies, it overshadows the successes.''
 Some critics of Mr. Pataki have a theory about his control of SUNY. He soothed conservatives' anger over his support for abortion rights and environmental causes by effectively giving them tax cuts, the death penalty and influence over the state university.
 These critics cite his trustees, who have gained a national reputation as one of the most activist university boards. Many of them came from the conservative wing of New York politics, including the board's chairman, Thomas F. Egan, an investment banker; Randy A. Daniels, the secretary of state, who is considering seeking Mr. Pataki's job if the governor does not run again; and Candace de Russy, a writer and cultural critic who has been the chief agitator against the status quo at SUNY.
 ''The new trustees told us that SUNY's first responsibility was to the governor and his agenda,'' said Thomas A. Bartlett, who was SUNY's chancellor during Mr. Pataki's first 18 months in office. 
 Mr. Bartlett, who resigned in 1996 after clashes with trustees, added, ''I thought our first responsibility was to the people of New York.''
 Mr. Pataki declined to be interviewed for this article, but said last month that SUNY ''always wants more'' and should look harder for private financing. In a statement last Friday, he particularly praised SUNY's work to create jobs and its research and development, and credited the ''innovative leadership'' of his trustees and Chancellor King along with strong state financing.
 Mr. Egan, whom the governor appointed as chairman in 1996, said he never told Dr. Bartlett or anyone else that they were employees of the governor. But Mr. Egan also said the university benefited by not criticizing Mr. Pataki, citing his support for $4.7 billion in 3,300 bonded construction projects.
 ''I believe in the governor's vision for the State of New York,'' Mr. Egan said in an interview. 
 Asked if he worked for the governor or for SUNY, Mr. Egan said later: ''I'm appointed by the governor, and I serve at his pleasure as chairman of the board, although I have a term of office as a trustee. I believe in the governor's economic policies.''
 Ties between SUNY and the executive branch have been close before. Mr. Rockefeller believed that control of SUNY could create a public good, and spent millions in the 1960's building up the research campuses at Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook. He also stressed low tuition and ease of admission across campuses. 
 Subsequent governors served as stewards of Mr. Rockefeller's legacy, but the near-bankruptcy of New York City in the 1970's, and the recessions in the 80's and 90's, led to cutbacks and layoffs at the university.
 Former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo acknowledged in an interview, ''I didn't have the money I wish I had for SUNY,'' blaming Reagan-era tax cuts. But he argued that economic growth in the 1990's should have generated revenue for Mr. Pataki to make SUNY whole. 
 Both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Pataki, like many governors, appointed like-minded trustees. Yet Mr. Cuomo's appointees fought with him to defend the university from cuts. Mr. Pataki's have not. He chose trustees who said they wanted to be change agents, not merely guardians of Mr. Rockefeller's SUNY.

Shifting Money and Goals
 With help from his trustees, Mr. Pataki began his tinkering with the university. He proposed budgets, like his first calling for a $290 million cut, that were intended to spur SUNY to seek more donations, tuition and other sources.
 ''Too often in New York we confuse how much the government spends with how good something is,'' Chancellor King said in an interview. ''I would contrast the amount we spend on K-12 and how good that is, with the amount we spend on SUNY and how good that is.''
 Mr. Pataki dropped some of the cuts in legislative negotiations in 1995, but tuition still rose that year to $3,400, or nearly 30 percent. The Rockefeller vision of minimal tuition is now a 1960's relic: SUNY tuition today is $4,350, with Mr. Pataki and SUNY supporting a $500 tuition increase this year. Combined with mandatory fees, the in-state cost at SUNY four-year campuses is now $5,232; the national average for four-year public colleges is $5,132.
 In effect, the governor made New York State a leveraging partner to SUNY.
 Entrepreneurship has been a watchword ever since Mr. Pataki supported, with lawmakers' consent, a 1995 plan for campuses to retain their savings and cut red tape. He also backed a state match to augment outside grants, which has proved successful. This year, New York provided an extra $89 million for SUNY as a match for $918 million in sponsored research. A decade ago, SUNY drew $454 million.
 ''It's estimated that with every $1 million in directly sponsored research, 30 jobs are created,'' said John B. Simpson, president of the University at Buffalo. ''So universities are enormously influential because of these grants.''
 The governor's greatest direct impact has been creation of the research-driven Centers of Excellence at the Albany, Buffalo and Stony Brook campuses. The three centers are intended to be hubs for new SUNY partnerships with industry, and magnets for companies to relocate or expand. Mr. Pataki has hailed the Albany center's efforts in nanotechnology as nothing short of groundbreaking, drawing almost $3 billion in private and state investments.
 Buffalo's specialty in bioinformatics, which combines computers and science to help simplify the exchange of data and discoveries worldwide, and Stony Brook's specialty in wireless information technology are still developing, with officials hopeful of success.
 ''That's the crapshoot,'' Dr. Simpson said, predicting that it would take a decade to know the extent of his center's impact.
 SUNY trustees also borrowed a page from private universities' playbook to become more learned in the art of enrollment management: more students and better students.
 But an analysis of university data shows that the results have been mixed.
 Most enrollment growth has been at the 30 community colleges. At the four-year campuses, applications rose by 10 percent in the last decade. Rising test scores nationally and some annual increases in the number of high school graduates were two factors. Yet several have seen a decline in total enrollment, partly because of transfers and higher tuitions. 
 Mean SAT scores also rose by 57 points over the decade, at a faster clip than the national average. Yet the percentage of students who graduate within six years has declined to 59.1 percent in 2004 from 61 percent in 1996. There has been success, too: Binghamton ranks third among public universities for its four-year graduation rate, nearly 70 percent.
 Another measure of reputation also remains modest: The proportion of out-of-state students in the country drawn to SUNY is now 4.2 percent, up from 3.1 percent in 1994. And the yardstick that concerns many on campuses is the decline in full-time faculty members over the last decade, by 10 percentage points, to 63.4 percent.

Politics and Personalities
 Rethinking and reshaping SUNY have come at a political price. Mr. Pataki's trustees, in their efforts to overhaul a university that the governor saw needing reform, have touched off skirmishes that marred SUNY's image in the state and nationally, according to officials, faculty members and outside observers.
 Some campus presidents and Democratic lawmakers complain that SUNY lacks an independent voice in Albany to challenge Mr. Pataki's budgets and regularly proposed cuts to financial aid. Trustees raised hackles in 1999 when they hired Mr. King, given his political background, although he has proved popular with faculty leaders.
 ''We keep our heads down and worked hard, because there were a lot of strong personalities and tensions up in Albany,'' said Lois B. DeFleur, president of SUNY Binghamton.
 Academic freedom has also been a flash point. In 1997, Mr. Pataki and his trustees expressed disgust and sought inquiries when a SUNY New Paltz conference on sexuality, which featured workshops on sex toys and sadomasochism, became a nationally publicized cause celebre of free speech. 
 In January, Ms. de Russy of the trustees proposed an academic bill of rights that called for greater intellectual diversity on campuses and more ''dissenting sources and viewpoints.'' Mr. Egan, the board chairman, said the issue is worthy of discussion, but some faculty members are not convinced.
 ''Under this bill of rights, a professor teaching about the Holocaust might be expected to present other views,'' said Joe Hildreth, president of the SUNY faculty senate. ''Do we want the professor to have to say, 'Some people think the Holocaust didn't happen?'''
 The tumult and change have led top state legislators to take a closer look at SUNY. State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, a Republican from Port Jefferson, N.Y., and the chairman of the Senate's Higher Education Committee, said he wants an independent commission to study SUNY's future. His Democratic counterpart in the Assembly, Ronald Canestrari, whose district includes parts of Albany, Rensselaer and Saratoga Counties, is contemplating public hearings.
 Mr. LaValle seeks greater self-determination for SUNY campuses, while Mr. Canestrari opposes replacing state aid with more tuition.
 Another idea involves an administrative merger of SUNY and CUNY that would devolve more power to campuses but leave one unifying chancellor (Colin Powell's name has been mentioned).
 Chancellor King said he does not expect any campus closings or mergers, in spite of the financial costs of the expansive system that Governor Rockefeller envisioned. Instead, Mr. King is now pressing the new tuition plan to help generate revenue that would raise tuition gradually each year for new students, while also requiring the state to cover soaring expenses like fringe benefits and energy.
 ''The real challenge is to elevate the priority that the government attaches to SUNY and CUNY and higher education generally,'' Mr. King said. ''I do believe we are the single best and effective tools for economic development that the state has, and as that recognition develops, it ought to lift us up.''

10 Years Later
 This is the third in a series of articles examining aspects of state government since Gov. George E. Pataki took office. Previous articles, which examined tax cuts and efforts to overhaul the government, are at nytimes.com/metro.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki was joined by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, left, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, at the opening of the Center for Environmental Sciences at SUNY Albany in June 1997. (Photo by Tim Roske/Associated Press)
The new Alfiero Center at SUNY Buffalo, part of the School of Management, is one of a handful of SUNY projects that were privately financed. John B. Simpson, the Buffalo president, has overseen the expansion.
 Thomas F. Egan, chairman of the SUNY board of trustees. (Photographs by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Graph: ''During Pataki's Term, a Changing SUNY''After declining in the 1990's, enrollment has begun to rise again.Graph tracks Total SUNY enrollment, State-operated or financed and Community colleges since 1985.Tuition and fees have continued to rise.Graph tracks Tuition and Average fees since 1984.The state's contribution to the system has declined.Graph tracks Direct state support as a percentage of total budget of state-operated SUNY programs since 1993.And private corporations are financing more university research.Graph tracks Sponsored research expenditures since 1994.(Source by State University of New York)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); POLITICS (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%) Colleges and Universities; Politics and Government; Surveys and Series; Finances; Tuition; Admissions Standards; Community Colleges; Colleges and Universities; Enrollment; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: Patrick D Healy; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



506 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Bill Demands Union Pay at Planned Brooklyn Developments

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
New York City's main building-service workers union is taking an unusual step to ensure that hundreds of janitors, doormen and security guards at apartment buildings planned for two Brooklyn neighborhoods are paid union-scale wages.
 The union, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, persuaded allies in the City Council to introduce legislation yesterday that would require residential developers planning projects in Williamsburg and Greenpoint to pay the prevailing union wage.
 Union officials say it is only fair that the builders, who are expected to receive millions of dollars in tax breaks, pay wages that would allow building-service workers to earn enough to support their families.
 Councilman Robert Jackson, a Manhattan Democrat, introduced the bill supported by Local 32BJ. Union officials said the bill had 23 co-sponsors, representing nearly half the Council's membership. 
 Some real estate industry officials expressed concern that the legislation would push wages so high that it might endanger a principal goal of the waterfront project: to provide affordable housing to financially pressed New Yorkers.
 The legislation is focused on Williamsburg and Greenpoint, where plans are moving ahead to rezone the industrial waterfront to build nearly 10,000 apartments. With 20 percent or more of the units scheduled to be affordable housing, the developers plan to seek tax incentives devised to spur such housing. Those incentives exempt developers from paying property taxes for at least 15 years.
 Local 32BJ officials say they want to make sure that the building-service wages paid in these large new buildings are on par with those paid in Manhattan. In the past, Local 32BJ has backed legislation that would have required the payment of a living wage, about $10 an hour. But the union, displaying its growing power, is now seeking a law requiring a wage of about $22 an hour to roughly equal the prevailing union scale in Manhattan. The $22 would include $18 an hour in wages and $4 an hour for health insurance.
 ''If city money, if city tax breaks, are going to be involved in these projects, then they should be used to support decent wages,'' said Michael Fishman, the president of Local 32BJ. ''These developers will get $200 million in tax incentives, and these should be tied to conditions to ensure decent jobs in the community, especially when so many good manufacturing jobs in the area are disappearing.''
 Mr. Fishman said 32BJ hoped to unionize all the building-service workers in the buildings on the Brooklyn waterfront once they were built. But he said the prevailing wage bill would ensure fair wages for all workers should some building owners successfully resist unionization.
 City Hall officials said that they were reviewing the new bill and were not prepared to discuss it.
 Industry officials said they were concerned that the tax incentives encouraging affordable housing might be linked to a prevailing wage requirement.
 ''Some developers are saying, 'We're between a rock and a hard place because prevailing wage or union wage scales are higher, and if we go nonunion, we'd be able to make the housing more affordable,''' said Richard T. Anderson, the president of the New York Building Congress, which represents construction, engineering and real estate firms in the city. 
 Elizabeth Counihan, the executive vice president of the Park Tower Group, which plans to build apartment buildings in Williamsburg, also expressed uneasiness. ''We're in favor of using union labor for construction and building services,'' she said. But Ms. Counihan said she did not like the idea of linking tax breaks and wages because ''they're totally different issues.''
 Ron Moelis, of L&M Equity Participants, a developer, said he was displeased that the legislation focused on just two neighborhoods. ''It's probably not great policy to target specific sections of the city for specific legislation,'' he said. ''It's going to come back and be problematic in other areas.''
 Mr. Jackson, the bill's sponsor, defended the legislation. ''I worked 22 years for a labor union, and I believe workers should be paid a decent wage so they can support their families and so that after 20, 25 years, they can retire with a good pension,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''Ninety percent of these building-service workers live in New York City, and paying them the prevailing wage would be good not just for them, but for the whole economy of New York City.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Fishman, president of the building-service workers union. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ZONING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



507 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words

 BODY:
A front-page article yesterday about a warning on inflation by the Federal Reserve as it raised short-term interest rates for a seventh time misidentified the government agency that reports the Producer Price Index, which measures wholesale prices. It is the Department of Labor, not Commerce.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (84%) United States Economy; Correction Stories; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



508 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Global PC Sales Forecast Is Cut

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Personal computer sales worldwide will increase 9.7 percent this year, less than previously forecast, because of slowing economies in the United States and Japan, the research firm IDC said yesterday. In November, IDC forecast a 10.1 percent rise. 
Global PC sales are expected to increase to 195.4 million units this year, from 178.1 million last year, IDC said in a statement on its Web site. Growth in American PC sales will slow to 7.6 percent, from 11 percent in 2004, IDC said. Slow employment growth, wider United States budget and trade deficits and high oil prices will crimp domestic PC demand, an IDC analyst, Roger Kay, said. Global sales growth is expected to be more than 8 percent through 2009 as buyers replace old computers and purchase wireless devices, IDC said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); BUDGETS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); WEB SITES (54%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



509 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Retail Prices In Area Rise Slightly

BYLINE: By Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
Retail prices in the New York City area rose 0.04 percent in February over January, led by increases in housing and clothing prices, according to figures released yesterday by the federal Department of Labor. Rent rose 0.05 percent in February, and the apparel index increased 2.8 percent, a common occurrence at this time of year when stores bring out their spring lines. The price of fuel and utilities rose 1 percent during February, reflecting a sharp rise in residential fuel prices. The Consumer Price Index, which measures inflation, rose 3.9 percent in February compared with same period in 2004. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



510 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GORDON, ALICE

 BODY:
 GORDON--Alice age 89 died Wednesday March 23, 2005. Born in Detroit, MI on September 24, 1915 of Samuel and Lena Zucker. 
Her mother died in the flu epidemic of 1918 and she was raised by a new mother, Fanny. She grew up in Washington, D.C., and the marches of the unemployed during the early years of the Depression touched her greatly, as did the ferment of the times. At age 18, she and her husband, Hyman Gordon, set off to save the world. She raised two children and worked as a legal secretary. Her true lifelong vocation, however, was the struggle to make the world a fair and just place. Even aged and halting, she marched against the war in Iraq, and took pride in casting her vote in the 2004 election against the man who now seeks to destroy the Social Security she fought to create. The great sorrow of her life was the loss of her beloved grandson, Danny Carboni, to cancer, at age 23. She had many friends, led a full life, and left the world better than she found it. Survived by her son, Martin Gordon of Forest Hills, NY and his wife Toby and their children Tina and Michael; her daughter Susan Carboni of Teaneck, NJ and her husband Franceso; her grandson, Peter Carboni of Los Angeles; and her brothers, Seymour Zucker of Maryland & Monte Zucker of FL. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); IRAQ WAR (73%); EPIDEMICS (72%); INFLUENZA (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



511 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Seek Cuts in Union Health Benefits

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Facing their worst financial outlook in years, executives at General Motors said yesterday that they wanted union workers to accept the same health benefit cuts already taken by white-collar workers. 
 ''We need a competitive plan for all of our employees,'' said Gary Cowger, G.M.'s head of North American operations, in a speech at the New York International Auto Show. ''An across-the-board competitive health care plan for salaried and hourly employees could save us billions of dollars a year.''
 The statements were the starkest indication yet that G.M. plans to make a concerted pitch to the United Auto Workers union to help the company out of its deep financial hole. 
 But making such a concession before the union contract expires in 2007 would be unprecedented and difficult to sell to union leaders and rank-and-file members. And it would still be difficult to sell in 2007, since concessions would essentially end the generous health benefits that have made jobs at the Big Three automakers among the most sought-after blue-collar work in America. 
 Paul Krell, a spokesman for the U.A.W., said the union would not comment on Mr. Cowger's remarks. G.M. and union leaders are scheduled to meet next month to discuss a range of issues facing the company. 
 Executives said yesterday that G.M. was taking a number of steps to right itself. They said that the company was reallocating engineering resources to rush the next generation of large sport utility vehicles, like the Chevrolet Suburban and the Cadillac Escalade, into production by the end of the year. G.M. is also planning to hasten introduction of its new large pickup truck models and midsize sport utility vehicles like the Chevrolet Trailblazer, and abandoning some planned small and midsize sporty cars.
 ''When you hit a rough spot, you have to decide where the real priorities are,'' said Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman, adding that the S.U.V.'s were ''where the company makes, frankly, high margins.''
 Mr. Lutz dismissed concerns that volatile gas prices would mean that large S.U.V.'s may not be the savior they have been in the past.
 ''Everybody thinks high gas prices hurt sport utility sales. In fact they don't,'' he said, adding that buyers of big S.U.V.'s like the Suburban, GMC Denali and Cadillac Escalade were well-off enough to be insulated from rising gas prices. 
 ''Rich people don't care,'' he said. 
 Executives at other automakers have disagreed with this view. Phil Martens, the Ford Motor Company's vice president for product creation, said in an interview yesterday that when it comes to buyer concerns, ''fuel economy has gone from not being in the top 10 to being in the top 5.'' 
 Last week, G.M. said the first quarter would be its second consecutive losing quarter. The company sharply lowered earnings projections for 2005, sending its stock to its lowest level in more than 10 years. Large S.U.V.'s and pickups have been enormous contributors to G.M.'s earnings, but the company's share of the market for large sport utilities has eroded in recent years. 
 ''The real part of the earnings problem is what is going on in S.U.V.'s, particularly mid- and large-sized S.U.V.'s'' said Scott Sprinzen, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, in an interview last week. 
 G.M. is also deeply burdened by health care costs. The company covers 1.1 million Americans, or about 0.4 percent of the population, and is the nation's largest private health care provider, with annual costs of over $5 billion. 
 Big Three autoworkers have health care benefits that are the envy of many Americans, with no deductibles or monthly premiums. Salaried workers at the companies, however, pay both deductibles and monthly premiums, with the amounts varying depending on the plan. Altogether, G.M.'s salaried workers pay about 27 percent of their health care bill, while hourly workers pay about 7 percent, according to company data. 
 ''We have a very outstanding health care plan for salaried employees,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''We have a different one for U.A.W. members and retirees.'' If union workers had a health plan that was ''equally excellent'' to that of salaried workers, ''that would represent substantial, substantial savings,'' he said.
 Any significant renegotiation of the terms of the labor contract before it expires in 2007 would be highly unusual. And Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the union, has made preserving health care benefits his top priority, declaring before contract talks in 2003 that he would not ''share costs'' with automakers. 
 That said, with the domestic auto industry, and particularly G.M., in dire straits, the union appears to be willing to give some ground. 
 In the last round of labor talks in 2003, Mr. Gettelfinger did concede modest increases in co-payments for drugs and some doctors' visits. And this year, the union agreed to let Chrysler have its workers who use preferred-provider plans start paying the first deductibles charged to Big Three workers. The concession to Chrysler is expected to be adopted in some form at G.M. and Ford. 
 Though many workers are aware of the troubles faced by the union and are expecting some cuts, significant reductions in benefits would be difficult for union leaders to sell to members. 
 ''If they believe the company numbers, they need management's help to convince the rank and file that the change needs to be made,'' said Sean P. McAlinden, director of the economics and business group at the Center for Automotive Research, an independent research firm in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 Mr. McAlinden estimated that costs for union members could increase $1,500 to $1,700 a year. 
 Mr. Lutz said the company would keep talking to the union. ''They know it's a critical issue for the company and we know that they know,'' he said.
 ''It's very difficult to say how or where this is going to go, but we have to maintain the dialogue and impress upon our partners how important this is.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Cowger, head of North American operations, said G.M. could save billions of dollars with a new health plan. (Photo by Chip East/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (84%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ENGINEERING (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) Automobiles; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Labor; Trade Shows and Fairs; New York International Auto Show; Automobiles; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%) General Motors Corp; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: Gary L Cowger; Danny Hakim; Robert A Lutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



512 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Untangling the Threads of the Enron Fraud

BYLINE: By CHARLES R. MORRIS. 
Charles R. Morris wrote ''Money, Greed, and Risk'' (1999) and ''The Tycoons,'' to be published this fall.

 BODY:

'Conspiracy of Fools'
''A True Story''
By Kurt Eichenwald
742 pages. Broadway Books. $26.
 In early 2000 Fortune magazine selected Enron as America's best-managed and most innovative company, and Enron's stock market valuation peaked at $73 billion that August. The following March the company announced that 2000 revenues had more than doubled, to $100 billion. The company paid its normal quarterly dividend in October 2001, announcing that regular earnings were up 26 percent and that it was ''on track'' to meet its full-year profit targets.
 Six weeks later, Enron filed for bankruptcy.
 Two questions arise: How could financial and investing professionals have been so badly gulled? And behind all the Potemkin-village financial reports, what was actually going on at Enron? The first question may be one for aficionados of mass hallucination, but Kurt Eichenwald's ''Conspiracy of Fools'' brilliantly answers the second.
 It is astonishing how utterly out of bounds almost all the Enron operations were. Of the $100 billion in revenues that dazzled the markets in 2000, $3 billion came from Enron's gas pipelines, its original business. Almost all the rest was smoke and mirrors. There was a runaway energy trading business that was an accounting disaster, a misconceived broadband venture to deliver movies to American living rooms and a trading operation in ''dark fiber,'' the overbuilt optical networks that were about to bankrupt much of the telecommunications industry. 
 Enron's electricity traders joked about ripping off California's grandmothers even as they siphoned power from the state to make a blackout crisis worse. The company's power development managers spun lies about their disastrous projects in India and Argentina. Without even rudimentary financial controls, its directors gazed benignly at the slapdash growth as if their coffee were spiked with anesthesia.
 There were plenty of clues that things were not as they seemed. Even the much-doctored official accounts showed the slimmest of profit margins, less than 1 percent of sales. A few skeptics who dug into the financials correctly divined that Enron was actually hemorrhaging cash. The late accounting giant Arthur Andersen aided in the deception. Kowtowing to a lucrative client, the local Andersen audit partner repeatedly signed off on gimmicks that the headquarters accounting gurus had expressly disapproved. 
 Wall Street, in any case, didn't want to know. These were the days when analysts whooped and danced around any company claiming to offer ''an Internet-based eCommerce system'' and ''high-bandwidth high-capacity data transport,'' whether it made any money or not.
 The closest Enron came to a core business strategy was its way of dealing with each financial disaster that came flopping its way over the thick carpets of the executive office. Jeffrey Skilling, the former McKinsey whiz who was either the No.1 or the No.2 executive during most of this period, and his chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow, would construct ''hedges'' -- usually outside financial partnerships, with names like Raptor and Talon that, in return for a payment, would assume any possible loss so it wouldn't appear on Enron's books.
 Almost all the hedges were fraudulent, since Enron typically guaranteed the new partnerships against losses, so no risk transfer actually occurred. Some of the world's most reputable financial institutions helped them do it. The Securities and Exchange Commission has so far extracted hundreds of millions in Enron-related fraud settlements from J.P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, among others. 
 Compounding the sordidness, Mr. Fastow was working a meta-scam of his own. Instead of finding outside investors for the minimum equity capital required for each partnership, Mr. Fastow and his underling Michael Koppers acted as the equity investors under assumed names, often that of Mr. Koppers's domestic partner. Since the equity investors collected most of the upfront payments from Enron, the two may have embezzled as much as $100 million.
 The structural challenge for Mr. Eichenwald, a reporter for The New York Times, was how to lay out multiple story lines unfolding over a nearly 15-year period without getting hopelessly tangled. His solution was to construct the book from short, cinematic scenes, presented in fairly strict chronological order with a minimum of embroidery. Although he uses reconstructed dialogue, mostly from anonymous sources, it is parsimoniously deployed, and by the slipshod standards of popular contemporary histories each scene is meticulously documented. The writing is crisp and clear, and as the stories take on their separate lives, the march toward catastrophe builds inexorably from tentative little steps to determined strides, and finally to a wide-eyed, wild-haired, all-out sprint to the cliff. The overall effect is riveting. 
 I have a few reservations. Kenneth Lay, the company's longtime chief executive, who hired Mr. Skilling and mostly turned over the management reins, emerges in Mr. Eichenwald's telling as a kind of amiable simpleton, glad-handing his way through Houston's moneyed upper crust. But unlike, say, Bernard Ebbers, the recently convicted former bouncer and high school coach who ran WorldCom onto the rocks, Mr. Lay is a Ph.D. economist and a former deputy under secretary of the interior, who had transformed the natural gas industry. Does Mr. Eichenwald believe that he really had no clue? That he never noticed the mad scramble to manufacture profits at the end of each reporting period? That he never wondered about the plausibility of a tenfold jump in revenues in just five years? 
 And one might lament the editorial decision against financial tables of any kind. Even an appendix displaying the financial ebbs and flows of all the constituent enterprises would have been a helpful reference point. 
 But those are quibbles. ''Conspiracy of Fools'' is a splendid achievement. Mr. Eichenwald has an encyclopedic grasp of a watershed business collapse, and has turned it into a gripping read, a true tale for our times.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kurt Eichenwald (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/Broadway Books) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); LITERATURE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); BANDWIDTH (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POWER FAILURES (70%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); AUDITS (68%); BROADBAND (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (51%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Charles R Morris; Kurt Eichenwald

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); INDIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



513 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Slide, but Shares Barely Budge

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks changed little yesterday as the biggest drop in oil prices this year led to a recovery from an inflation report that had reinforced concerns about increasing prices.
 The drop in oil prices prompted investors to sell their energy stocks, including Exxon Mobil. In their place, investors bought semiconductor shares, which have been some of the last year's worst performers.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 0.82 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,172.53, rebounding from a seven-week low. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets two-fifths of its value from computer industry stocks, rose 0.88, to 1,990.22. 
 Exxon Mobil's losses weighed on the Dow Jones industrial average, which slipped 14.49 points, or 0.1 percent, at 10,456.02.
 Almost three stocks declined for every one that gained on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.81 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 20 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Benchmark indexes fell to the day's lows in the first 90 minutes of trading after a report showed an increase in consumer prices. On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve, noting that inflation pressures ''have picked up in recent months,'' announced the seventh quarter-point increase in its benchmark interest rate since June.
 Stocks then rebounded after an Energy Department report showed inventories of crude oil rose to their highest level since July 2002, pushing oil futures lower. Crude for delivery in May dropped $2.22, or 4 percent, to $53.81 in New York.
 The recent rises in oil prices and interest rates have weighed on benchmark indexes this year. The S.&P. 500 has lost 3.3 percent in 2005; the Dow has dropped 3 percent; and the Nasdaq has slumped 8.5 percent.
 An index of semiconductor shares in the S.&P. 500 gained 1.5 percent yesterday, trimming its decline for the last 12 months to 12 percent. Intel, the world's biggest chip maker, rose 37 cents, to $23.39. Qualcomm., a leading maker of semiconductors used in mobile telephones, added 31 cents, to $36.31.
 ''Things are starting to get attractive in semiconductors, which have been beaten down,'' said Eric Green, who helps manage $1.4 billion at Penn Capital Management in Cherry Hill, N.J. Companies are saying ''the industry has bottomed, and that industry really leads the tech market.''
 The slide in oil prices sent an index of energy companies down 1.7 percent for the steepest decline among the S.&P. 500's groups. Even after today's drop, the group has soared 45 percent in the last 12 months, more than double the gains of the next-best performers.
 Exxon, the world's biggest publicly traded oil company, fell 81 cents, to $60.09. ChevronTexaco lost 75 cents, to $58.42. ConocoPhillips slid $1.93, to $105.10. They were among the four biggest drags on the S.&P. 500.
 General Motors, which tumbled 17 percent last week, slid 88 cents, to $28.66. Its 3 percent drop was the steepest in the Dow average. The automaker is considering selling a stake in its commercial mortgage unit as it tries to raise cash after forecasting its biggest quarterly loss in 13 years last week.
 Pfizer, the world's biggest drug maker, climbed 62 cents, to $26.04. The company plans to sell or close a Michigan plant that employs about 300 people to reduce duplications that arose after the acquisition of Pharmacia two years ago.
 XM Satellite Radio added $2.41 to $30.45. The company, the No. 1 subscription-radio service, said the United States unit of Hyundai Motor would make XM radios standard equipment in all its vehicles starting in 2006, the first automaker to do so.
 Treasury securities rose for the first day in the last four. By late in the day the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 95 12/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.59 percent, from 4.64 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (74%); J-COS CORP (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); INTEL CORP (52%); QUALCOMM INC (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (74%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (62%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



514 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Conference of Arab Leaders Yields Little of Significance

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: ALGIERS, March 23 

 BODY:
Arab leaders facing intense international pressure on issues ranging from war to democracy movements ended a two-day summit conference here on Wednesday with little to show for it. Only 13 of 22 leaders came, and the resolutions passed were of comparatively little significance, leaving critics plenty to complain about.
 ''As the gravity of the crises continues to rise, so does the irrelevance of the Arab League response -- or the lack of it,'' Rami Khouri, editor at large of The Daily Star, a Lebanese newspaper, said from Beirut in a phone interview. ''All it represents now is the irrelevance of the incumbent Arab regimes.'' 
 For two days leaders of Arab League members, including Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, unveiled plans for an Arab common market by 2015, an Arab parliament modeled on that of the European Union and initiatives to bridge the Arab world and the West. 
 They were observed by visitors like Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain and Foreign Minister Michel Barnier of France, as well as Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations, who all prodded the leaders to discuss political reforms.
 Arab political reform and divisions were mentioned only in passing, while reform of the League itself took the spotlight, as did an attempt to revive a failed Arab-Israeli peace initiative from 2002. Lebanon's crisis went nearly unnoted, but support was given to Syria against ''foreign intervention,'' meaning pressure from the United States and France. 
 Members chose Egypt as a representative on the United Nations Security Council if the Council is enlarged, but they dismissed Security Council Resolution 1559, which calls for Syria to pull out of Lebanon and for the militant Shiite group Hezbollah to be disarmed. 
 With major Arab leaders either skipping the meeting or snubbing the League altogether, the conference became a forum for personal squabbles. Apparently in a gesture of disdain, Colonel Qaddafi lit up a cigarette as the session began. The leaders competed to keep each other late in efforts at one-upmanship. Some refused to be photographed together. 
 That dismayed many Arab news organizations. Coverage of the meeting was well below that of previous years, editors said Wednesday. The satellite television channel Al Jazeera dismissed the meeting as ''yet another summit'' in promotions for its coverage, which was generally critical and unsympathetic. 
 ''They have to think and devise different instruments to deal with the outside world,'' said Mustafa Hamarneh, director of the Center for Strategic Studies in Amman. ''Otherwise this is a dead-end street.'' 
 The League was formed in 1945 by seven countries, including Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Its main role was to push an Arab political agenda, and Mr. Khouri said it had a few successes, mainly in the 1960's, pressing European powers to change policies and helping to keep the Palestinian cause on front pages. 
 The League formed the Arab Telecommunications Union in 1953, the Arab Postal Union a year later and the Arab Development Bank in 1959, but critics say little has been accomplished since. ''It's an institution of the 1960's and hasn't changed, even though the world and the region has,'' Mr. Khouri said. 
 Low turnout severely hampered this year's meeting. Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia was notably absent. He is reported to have skipped the session at the last minute to avoid Colonel Qaddafi, who stands accused by American and Saudi officials of having set up a plot to assassinate the Saudi leader. 
 Also missing were King Abdullah II of Jordan, whose proposal for an Arab peace with Israel was rejected on Sunday, and President Emile Lahoud of Lebanon, who bowed out on Saturday after a Beirut car bombing raised tensions in his country. 
 ''We all believe that the Arab League needs to go through rehabilitation, and many countries have been working toward that direction,'' King Abdullah said during a visit to the headquarters of The New York Times on Wednesday. 
 In a speech on Tuesday opening the conference, Amr Moussa of Egypt, secretary general of the League, said, ''This century began with us in an unenviable defensive situation.'' Mr. Moussa called for ''different and daring collective action,'' insisting that Arab countries help Iraq achieve stability and help Sudan end the violence in its western region, Darfur.
 On Wednesday, King Mohammed VI of Morocco sought to address the issue of political reform with a warning. ''Self-reform is an internal process,'' the king said. ''Just as we refrain from giving lessons to others, we will not tolerate being told what to do. No one, from the Arab world or anywhere else, shall impose their views on us.'' 
 Imad Hmoud, editor of the Jordanian newspaper Al Ghad, said: ''You really have to ask, what's the difference this year from last? Everybody knows the final result before they even sit down to talk.''
 Arab League officials say reforms are in the works, but they inspire as much derision as hope. The conference voted in favor of creating an Arab parliament to be elected from the parliaments of Arab countries, which are not likely to have been democratically elected themselves. The Arab parliament would most likely be housed in Syria, one of the less democratic countries in the League. 
 Some feel that Arab unity is still the League's central point. 
 ''The only Arabs cooperating across borders are the Arab interior ministers,'' said Ayman Abdelnour, a Syrian analyst and confidant of President Assad. ''The leaders all seem to forget that their strength will only come from working together.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEZBOLLAH (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) Arab League; United Nations

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (71%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (59%) Hassan M Fattah; Jose Luis Rodriguez (Prime Min) Zapatero; Michel (Min) Barnier; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SYRIA (94%); SPAIN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (92%); LEBANON (91%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) Middle East; Spain; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



515 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Bush Cites Political Hurdles In Plan for 'Guest Workers'

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: WACO, Tex., March 23 

 BODY:
President Bush promised the leaders of Mexico and Canada at a meeting on Wednesday that he would continue pressing for changes in United States immigration policy. But he also sought to lower expectations that a guest-worker program would gain momentum on Capitol Hill, where it has faced resistance for years.
 ''Mr. President, you've got my pledge, I'll continue working on it,'' Mr. Bush said to the Mexican leader, Vicente Fox. Mr. Bush, Mr. Fox and Prime Minister Paul Martin of Canada appeared together at a news conference at Baylor University here. 
 ''You don't have my pledge that Congress will act, because I'm not a member of the legislative branch,'' Mr. Bush continued. ''But you will have my pledge that I will continue to push our Congress to come up with rational, common-sense immigration policy.''
 Republicans are divided over immigration, with some conservatives seeking stricter border controls and moderates supporting the administration's call to give some illegal immigrants amnesty if they have been in the country at least three years. Many of the immigrants who would qualify are Mexican, and the proposal has long been sought by Mr. Fox.
 The three men, who are often at odds over national security, immigration and environmental policy, held these talks to begin what they called a ''security and prosperity partnership'' for increased economic cooperation. Among their goals: staying competitive with an increasingly robust China, imposing common border security regulations and encouraging more collaboration across a range of industries. 
 ''We are seeking an objective balance between the concerns that have to do with security and those that have to do with having a good and agile flow of goods and people across the borders,'' Mr. Fox said through an interpreter.
 Allowing a total of six questions from the hundreds of reporters gathered for the news conference, the leaders touched on a range of other foreign and domestic policy issues. Afterward they met for lunch at Mr. Bush's ranch, about 30 miles away. 
 On a question about North Korea, Mr. Bush demanded that Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, return to multilateral discussions over the country's nuclear weapons programs, but denied that he had set a June deadline. 
 ''We didn't set deadlines,'' Mr. Bush said. ''What we said is what we've said to North Korea: If you want the way forward, if you want to be accepted by the world, if you want not to be isolated, get rid of your weapons programs.'' 
 As for concrete results yielded by the talks here, Mr. Fox said a dozen working groups would convene over the next three months to address the issues the leaders had discussed. ''All of us have a sense of urgency,'' he said, ticking off energy, education, technology, security and natural resources as among their priorities.
 With immigration at the forefront of their talks, Mr. Bush voiced criticism of citizens along the border who have taken it upon themselves to enforce security. ''I'm against vigilantes,'' he said.
 Responding to the president's statements, Democrats challenged Mr. Bush to confront members of his own party who have resisted loosening immigration restrictions, as he proposes.
 ''Unfortunately, the right wing of the president's party continues to put forward proposals that neither help make progress towards comprehensive immigration reform, nor help truly protect our borders,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said in a statement.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

China Pressures North Korea
 BEIJING, March 23 (AP) -- President Hu Jintao stepped up pressure on North Korea on Wednesday to return to nuclear talks, telling North Korea's prime minister that dialogue was the only way to settle the dispute.
 Mr. Hu offered Beijing's help in arranging new talks as he met with Prime Minister Pak Pong Ju, the official New China News Agency reported.
 Mr. Hu told Mr. Pak that ''dialogue is the only correct choice for peacefully resolving the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula,'' the agency said. It added that Mr. Hu promised to see that North Korea's ''rational concerns'' were resolved -- a reference to the North's demands for security guarantees if it gives up trying to make nuclear weapons.
 Mr. Hu's comments were unusually blunt and forceful for the Chinese leader, whose public statements are rarely so direct. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice suggested Monday that North Korea might face sanctions if it did not cooperate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (97%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (87%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); AMNESTY (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Labor; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); PAUL MARTIN (78%); KIM JONG IL (55%) George W (Pres) Bush; Anne E Kornblut; Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Paul (Prime Min) Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); CANADA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Mexico; Canada; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



516 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Some Blacks Decide to Cross Party Lines In Stadium War

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
It was an unlikely scene: The Rev. Al Sharpton stood on the steps of City Hall yesterday and endorsed the proposed West Side stadium for the Jets -- a pet project of the Republican mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, and a prime target of the mayor's Democratic challengers.
 But Mr. Sharpton is just the latest to join a long list of prominent black Democrats supporting the stadium project. The growth of that list is confounding many fellow Democratic leaders, who have for so long counted on the allegiance of African-Americans in their major battles. 
 Behind the divide is a belief among many black leaders that the city's construction industry has for too long excluded black contractors and workers from major projects -- a pattern the Jets organization has vowed to reverse if it builds its stadium. 
 Mr. Sharpton and several other black Democratic leaders who support the project said the need for good jobs for African-Americans when so many of them are unemployed must trump party loyalty -- even if backing the stadium means opposing every major Democratic candidate for mayor on this central campaign issue.
 ''We don't always agree in a party,'' Mr. Sharpton told reporters yesterday. ''But I think this is above partisan politics.''
 Putting it more bluntly, Bill Lynch, a black Democratic political consultant who represents the Jets, said West Side Democrats expecting black support in their fight against the stadium had not always been there when the positions were reversed.
 ''My friends on the West Side, they always want me to be in their struggles,'' said Mr. Lynch, who was a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins.
 ''But when we had one with the treatment plant, I didn't see any of them out there,'' he added, referring to a Harlem waste facility that opened during the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch despite opposition from black leaders.
 The Jets have paid Mr. Lynch at least $25,000 to lobby city and state officials, according to state records. He is a point person in a drive to win minority support for the stadium project that began last year and has borne its most robust fruit in the last couple of weeks.
 Two weeks before Mr. Sharpton caught stadium opponents off guard with his support for the project, Representative Charles B. Rangel, the dean of the New York Congressional delegation, did the same. 
 Stadium opponents said they saw the hand of Mr. Lynch in both endorsements, as well as those from the City Council majority whip, Leroy Comrie; Councilman Larry B. Seabrook of the Bronx; Representative Gregory W. Meeks; and the several other minority elected officials backing the stadium. Mr. Lynch acknowledged that he was unable to convince C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, who is running for mayor.
 But Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Rangel said they were supporting the Jets because the team had broken a pattern of exclusion by devising an intricate plan to ensure minority involvement in the stadium construction, not because of Mr. Lynch.
 ''There have been no previous negotiations for minorities to get jobs,'' Mr. Rangel said.
 ''This is historic,'' he added, saying of the Jets, ''They're committed.''
 Jets officials say they began wooing minority elected officials about a year ago, identifying them as a constituency that would be open to supporting the stadium in a city with so many others certain to oppose it.
 The team convened a task force of minority business and elected officials in August to devise a plan for minority involvement in the project, which the Jets say will create 18,000 construction jobs and 7,000 permanent jobs. 
 ''I said, 'I will support you tomorrow morning in general if you agree to sit down and let us, at your expense, write a minority business plan,''' said James Heyliger II, the president of the Association of Minority Enterprises of New York Inc., a trade group.
 The plan to which the Jets agreed -- and put in writing -- created a loan fund to help minority businesses that win work on the project; a training program to help minority-owned construction businesses form in the first place; and an outreach program to help such firms win access to bonding firms. Mr. Heyliger said it was a breakthrough, coming after complaints that minority businesses had made little headway in the downtown rebuilding effort.
 Still, Councilman Charles Barron, who is black and opposes the stadium, said that as far as he was concerned, the Jets organization was just another company making promises it was not obliged to keep. ''They know that our community is desperate for jobs, so they come in with these deals,'' he said.
 Ms. Fields and Representative Anthony D. Weiner, another potential Democratic opponent of Mr. Bloomberg's, said yesterday that just as many jobs could be created if the stadium were built in Queens, a change of location that both advocated, though the Jets have shown no interest. Another mayoral candidate, Council Speaker Gifford Miller, said that other proposed West Side construction projects -- such as the plan by the Jets' rival, Cablevision, to build a residential complex, a hotel and a park on the stadium site -- would create plenty of jobs, too.
 But Mr. Sharpton said it was the Jets, not Cablevision, that had reached out to the minorities. ''The only plan on the table that guarantees jobs and guarantees inclusiveness is this plan,'' he said.
 Cablevision, however, said in a statement after Mr. Sharpton spoke that it would ''meet or exceed'' the Jets' promises of minority hiring.
 Mr. Sharpton was clearly annoyed by questions about how it felt to be contradicting the Democratic mayoral candidates. He said he would endorse a candidate in the Democratic primary in the next two weeks, just so his support for the stadium would not be confused with support for the mayor. 
 Whomever he endorses, Mr. Sharpton said, he will not let mayoral politics stand in the way of his support for the stadium.
 ''How do we justify it to our community that we want jobs, when somebody puts jobs on the table we say, 'Oh, it's an election year, wait until after the election?''' he said. ''That would be disingenuous.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Al Sharpton and Councilman Hiram Monserrate outside City Hall yesterday after Mr. Sharpton endorsed a West Side stadium. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); GREGORY W MEEKS (57%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



517 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: White House Makes Dent In Openings at Treasury

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
The Bush administration moved to fill a top post at the Treasury Department on Wednesday, but stumbled in its attempt to fill another.
 President Bush announced that he would nominate Timothy D. Adams, a policy adviser to Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns, to succeed John B. Taylor as under secretary for international affairs. 
 But the administration failed to find a permanent successor for the second-highest post at the department, the deputy secretary. That job had been held by Samuel W. Bodman, who became secretary of energy this year.
 White House officials had been hoping to recruit Mark A. Weinberger, who oversaw tax policy at the Treasury Department in 2001 and 2002 and is vice chairman of Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm.
 But Mr. Weinberger quietly took himself out of consideration several weeks ago, according to people close to the administration, apparently deciding that he did not want to leave a top post at Ernst & Young so soon after arriving.
 The withdrawal of Mr. Weinberger worsens a significant shortage of top officials at the Treasury Department, which needs to fill posts for tax policy, domestic financing activities and other crucial functions.
 Administration officials say about a third of senior Treasury positions are vacant, though the White House has stepped up the pace of filling other economic posts at the World Bank and the office of the United States trade representative.
 The Treasury Department oversees policies on the global value of the dollar and it has been central to forming economic policy on issues from taxes to money-laundering. But the agency has much less political power under President Bush than it did under President Bill Clinton or President Ronald Reagan. 
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has devoted most of his energy to promoting Mr. Bush's tax cuts and his plans to overhaul Social Security. But many of the biggest economic decisions are made within the White House, a fact that some analysts say has made it harder to recruit people to the Treasury Department.
 In lieu of naming a permanent deputy secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Bush announced that he would designate Arnold I. Havens, currently the Treasury Department's general counsel, as acting deputy secretary. 
 Mr. Havens is a longtime industry lobbyist who was head of government affairs at the CSX Corporation, the railroad company, when Mr. Snow was CSX's chief executive.
 Mr. Adams, 43, will succeed Mr. Taylor, who announced on Monday that he would resign next month after four years in charge of international economic policies.
 Mr. Adams was policy director for Mr. Bush's first presidential campaign in 2000 and a top domestic policy adviser to his re-election campaign last year. Between the campaigns, Mr. Adams was chief of staff to Mr. Snow and to Mr. Snow's predecessor, Paul H. O'Neill.
 Unlike Mr. Taylor, a well-known monetary economist at Stanford University, Mr. Adams's primary experience has been as a political and policy adviser in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Timothy D. Adams, a Bush campaign adviser, left, will, if confirmed by the Senate, become under secretary for international affairs at the Treasury. Arnold I. Havens, right, will be acting deputy secretary. (Photographs by Department of Treasury) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); LOBBYING (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); US DOLLAR (65%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CSX CORP (81%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (54%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (81%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



518 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Outlook Called Direr Than Social Security's

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM; Edmund L. Andrews, Robert Pear, Richard W. Stevenson and Robin Toner contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
The long-term financial condition of the Social Security system deteriorated slightly over the last year, the government reported on Wednesday, and President Bush's supporters immediately said this strengthened the case for enacting a fundamental change in the program this year.
 In their annual report to Congress, the trustees of the Social Security and Medicare programs said Social Security reserves would be depleted in 2041, one year earlier than was projected last year. But the trustees emphasized, as they did last year, that Medicare's financial outlook was ''much worse than Social Security's'' and predicted that the monthly Medicare premiums paid by almost all Americans 65 and older would rise by 12 percent next year after a 17 percent increase this year.
 The trustees said they saw a small improvement in the condition of Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund. They forecast that it would be depleted in 2020, one year later than was predicted last year. 
 Mr. Bush's top legislative priority this year is to transform Social Security from a government program that uses tax money to pay guaranteed benefits to retirees and disabled workers into one that allows workers to put part of their taxes into individual investment accounts. 
 While the president concedes that personal accounts would not improve Social Security's financial condition, he maintains that the added income retirees would receive from their investments would enable them to bear the cuts in government benefits that are needed to make the system permanently solvent.
 The plan has met considerable resistance in Congress, especially from Democrats, and one of the opponents' arguments has been that the plan could remove an important safety net for the disabled.
 In an interview at the White House on Wednesday, Allan B. Hubbard, chairman of the president's National Economic Council, insisted that Mr. Bush's plan did not envision any reduction in the Social Security benefits now received by the disabled. The administration has never been so explicit on this point.
 Mr. Hubbard also stressed the favorable view the White House takes of an idea called ''progressive indexation'' developed by Robert Pozen, an investment executive who served on Mr. Bush's advisory commission on Social Security in 2001. Mr. Pozen's proposal would give lower-income retirees an advantage in computing benefits over retirees who were better off.
 Last week, Mr. Bush called this ''a really interesting idea.''
 Mr. Hubbard said, ''The president finds the Pozen approach very attractive.''
 Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and several cabinet members are on a 60-day, coast-to-coast campaign to sell their Social Security proposal, and their main case for enacting legislation this year is that the system is in serious, unsustainable financial straits that must be corrected now, a position most Democrats reject.
 The trustees' report did not change the financial picture much, moving forward by one year the date when the Social Security trust funds are projected to have insufficient reserves to pay full benefits. It also advanced by one year, to 2017 from 2018, the point at which benefits first exceed tax revenues.
 But this is the first time in years that the trustees have projected an earlier insolvency date than the one set the previous year. In 1997, that date was forecast to be 2029. Year by year, the insolvency date was pushed back until 2003 and 2004, when it was predicted to be 2042.
 ''The report underscores the fact we need to do something,'' said Treasury Secretary John W. Snow. ''The report underscores the need for legislative action.''
 But Democrats read the trustees' report differently, saying it showed that Medicare had much more serious problems and that Social Security would remain solvent for decades and did not have to be dealt with in a hurry. 
 ''Today's report confirms that the so-called Social Security crisis exists in only one place: the minds of Republicans,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader.
 Of the six Social Security and Medicare trustees, four are administration officials: Mr. Snow; Michael O. Leavitt, secretary of health and human services; Elaine L. Chao, secretary of labor; and Jo Anne B. Barnhart, commissioner of Social Security. By law, there are two trustees from outside the government: Thomas R. Saving, a Republican appointee, who is an economist at Texas A&M University, and John L. Palmer, a Democratic appointee, who is former dean of the Maxwell School at Syracuse University.
 Mr. Palmer, the only trustee who is not an outspoken advocate of the president's policy, said that the report's findings were essentially those of the professional actuaries at the Social Security Administration and that he concurred ''absolutely'' with the assumptions and conclusions.
 Mr. Palmer said the main reason the projected financial condition had deteriorated slightly was that wages grew more slowly than expected in 2004 and therefore generated less payroll tax revenue.
 On Social Security, the main points were these:
 $(6$)The trust funds, the accumulated amount by which tax revenues have exceed benefits over the years, will be exhausted in 2041; after that, the government will only be able to pay 74 percent of scheduled benefits.
 $(6$)In 2017, annual benefits will begin to exceed annual revenues from Social Security taxes; after that, the government will have to borrow money or tap general revenues to meet the system's obligations.
 $(6$)To pay all scheduled benefits over the next 75 years, the government would have to raise an additional $4 trillion in today's dollars, $300 billion higher than the figure projected last year.
 ''The sooner these problems are addressed, the more varied and less disruptive will be their solutions,'' the trustees' report said.
 The Social Security debate is at a crucial stage. Congress is on a two-week recess, and lawmakers are taking soundings at home. Administration officials are touring the country in their 60-day drive. And proponents and opponents of the president's plan have introduced television advertisements to try to shape the public view.
 On Medicare, the trustees' report emphasizes that the health insurance program's ''financial difficulties come sooner -- and are much more severe -- than those confronting Social Security.'' 
 Social Security and Medicare face ''essentially the same demographic challenge,'' it says, but health costs are rising faster than the wages on which Social Security benefits are based. The trustees predicted that ''Medicare's cost will first exceed Social Security's in 2024'' and will then grow rapidly as a share of the nation's economy.
 The basic monthly Medicare premium, withheld from Social Security checks, has risen 33 percent in the last two years, to the current $78.20 from $58.70 in 2003. The trustees said that beneficiaries faced another double-digit percentage increase in 2006, with the charge rising to $87.70. 
 That does not include a separate premium, expected to average $35 a month, for the prescription drug coverage that becomes available in 2006.
 The premium increases could inject a new variable into what is expected to be a fiercely competitive midterm election year. ''Many seniors are going to be facing sticker shock in terms of the cost of their health care,'' said John C. Rother, policy director of AARP.
 Mr. Snow and Mr. Leavitt defended President Bush's decision to push for immediate changes in Social Security, but not Medicare.
 ''Social Security is there,'' Mr. Snow said. ''The facts are known. They are incontrovertible.''
 Mr. Leavitt said, ''The president has chosen to take a very clear view of the Social Security system and place it in front of the American people'' this year. At some point, he said, ''we are going to have to deal with the realities of Medicare in the same way we are now dealing with the realities of Social Security.''
 Medicare's problems are far more complicated than Social Security's because they depend not just on demographic changes but also on rising health costs, fueled by new medical technology and other factors. 
 On the question of disability, Mr. Hubbard, the White House policy coordinator, went much further than anyone else in the White House in insisting that disabled workers would have no reduction in benefits under the president's plan, even if retirement benefits were cut. 
 Now, 17 percent of all Social Security benefits are paid to disabled people and their dependents, and disability benefits are based on what the workers would have been entitled to if they had worked until retirement age.
 Investment accounts would not help many disabled workers. They would not have worked long enough to accumulate much money in their accounts. Yet many policy analysts had assumed that under the president's plan, Social Security disability benefits would be reduced at the same rate as retirement benefits.
 Asked about this, Mr. Hubbard said, ''The president doesn't plan to touch the disability program.''
 Pressed in the interview on whether this meant that disabled workers would be eligible for higher benefits than retirees, he said, ''The president's intent is not to change what they get under current law.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Outlook for Medicare and Social Security''The trustees of Social Security and Medicare projected only slight changes in the long-term health of the programs in their annual reports yesterday.SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUNDYEAR OF REPORT -- 1995PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2030YEARS REMAINING -- 35YEAR OF REPORT -- 1996PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2029YEARS REMAINING -- 33YEAR OF REPORT -- 1997PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2029YEARS REMAINING -- 32YEAR OF REPORT -- 1998PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2032YEARS REMAINING -- 34YEAR OF REPORT -- 1999PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2034YEARS REMAINING -- 35YEAR OF REPORT -- 2000PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2037YEARS REMAINING -- 37YEAR OF REPORT -- 2001PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2038YEARS REMAINING -- 37YEAR OF REPORT -- 2002PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2041YEARS REMAINING -- 39YEAR OF REPORT -- 2003PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2042YEARS REMAINING -- 39YEAR OF REPORT -- 2004PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2042YEARS REMAINING -- 38YEAR OF REPORT -- 2005PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2041YEARS REMAINING -- 36MEDICARE HOSPITAL TRUST FUNDPROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2002YEARS REMAINING -- 7PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2001YEARS REMAINING -- 5PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2001YEARS REMAINING -- 4PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2008YEARS REMAINING -- 10PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2015YEARS REMAINING -- 16PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2025YEARS REMAINING -- 25PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2029YEARS REMAINING -- 28PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2030YEARS REMAINING -- 28PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2026YEARS REMAINING -- 23PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2019YEARS REMAINING -- 15PROJECTED YEAR OF INSOLVENCY -- 2020YEARS REMAINING -- 15LONG-TERM COSTS -- The trustees emphasized that the financial difficulties facing the Medicare program are much more severe than those facing Social Security.Graph tracks costs as a percentage of G.D.P. for Medicare* and Social Security since 1970.*Spending on all Medicare benefits, including hospitals, doctors and prescription drugs.(Sources by Social Security Administration
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 House Ways and Means Committee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DISABLED WORKERS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SALES & SELLING (60%) Medicine and Health; Privatization; Medicare; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%) Social Security (US)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



519 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Slow, But Prices Continue to Soar

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell 0.4 percent in February, while home prices rose at double-digit rates, a trade association reported Wednesday. 
 Sales of previously owned homes declined to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.79 million units last month, the National Association of Realtors said. 
That figure includes both single-family homes and condominiums. 
 Single-family home sales slid 0.3 percent in February, to a 5.94 million unit rate, from a 5.96 million unit pace in January. Condominium sales dropped 1.2 percent, to an 848,000 unit rate, from an 858,000 unit pace in January. 
 Analysts had expected sales to fall to a 6.7 million unit rate, from 6.82 million units in January.
 The national median home price jumped 11 percent from February 2004, to $191,000, the report showed. 
 David Lereah, the group's chief economist, said the housing market appeared to be in the early stages of settling down. ''Home sales were surging at unprecedented levels for most of last year,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''The cooling we expect in sales this year means we'll be transitioning from a white-hot housing market into a very strong market that still favors home sellers, but should become more balanced as the year progresses.'' 
 In February, the supply of homes for sale at the current pace was 4.2 months' worth, up from 3.8 months' worth in January. 
 ''The report showed a negligible decline,'' said Susan Stearns, vice president for institutional foreign exchange sales at the Bank of Montreal in New York. Housing ''is holding at a pretty steady level here,'' she added.
 Home sales have been bolstered by low mortgage rates. According to Freddie Mac, the national average long-term fixed mortgage rate was 5.63 percent in February, down from 5.71 percent in January.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A home for sale in Plantation, Fla. Houses and condos sold more slowly last month, but economists said the market remained strong. (Photo by Richard Sheinwald/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); BANK OF MONTREAL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (66%); BMO (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (66%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%); FLORIDA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005



520 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Trading Places: Real Estate Instead of Dot-Coms

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Real estate-crazed Americans have started behaving in ways that eerily recall the stock market obsession of the late 1990's.
 In Naples, Fla., some houses have been bought twice in a single day, an early-21st-century version of day trading. Buying stocks on margin has morphed into buying homes with no money down. The over-the-top parties of Internet start-ups have been replaced by flashy gatherings where developers pitch condos to eager buyers.
 Five years ago, the cable channel CNBC sometimes seemed like a backdrop to daily American life. Its cheery analysis of the stock market played in offices, in barbershops, even in some bars. Today, ''Dude Room,'' ''Toolbelt Diva'' and other home-improvement shows are the addictive fare that CNBC's exuberant stock shows once were. 
 ''It just seems like everyone is doing it,'' Laurie Romano, a 26-year-old self-described real estate investor, said with a giggle as she explained why she was attending an open house this month for the Nexus, a 56-unit building going up in Brooklyn's chic Dumbo neighborhood. She and her fiance, a dentist, had already put down a deposit on a Manhattan condo earlier in the week and had come to look at another at the Nexus.
 Nobody can know whether the housing boom of the last decade will end as the dot-com frenzy did. But the parallels are raising alarms among many economists, even those who acknowledge that there are important differences between homes and stocks that significantly reduce the chances of another meltdown. For one thing, houses are not just paper wealth: you can live in them.
 Still, perhaps the most troubling similarity, some analysts say, is the claim that the rules have somehow changed. In an echo of the blase attitude that ''new economy'' investors took toward unprofitable companies, the growing ranks of real estate investors are buying houses they never expect to be able to rent at a profit. Instead, they think the prices of houses will just keep rising.
 Indeed, the government reported yesterday that sales of new homes jumped sharply in February, in the biggest monthly increase in four years. A strong economy and an improving job market contributed to the gain. But many buyers were also trying to beat rising mortgage rates, which could eventually cool the market.
 Adding to the parallels between stocks and housing, some of the doomsayers from the 1990's have returned with new warnings. 
 ''We're going through something very similar in real estate that we did with stocks,'' said Robert J. Shiller -- a professor of economics at Yale, whose prescient book on stocks, ''Irrational Exuberance'' (Princeton University Press, 2000), appeared just a few months before technology stocks began their slide. ''It's driven by the same forces: that investments can't go bad; that it has the potential to make you rich; that you'll regret it if you don't do it; that it looks expensive but is really not.''
 A new edition of Mr. Shiller's book will be published next month. The cover promises an ''analysis of the worldwide real estate bubble and its aftermath.''
 Premonitions of a bubble on the verge of popping do not ruffle those who are bullish on real estate. In Miami, Ron Shuffield, president of Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors, predicted that a limited supply of land coupled with demand from baby boomers and foreigners would prolong the boom indefinitely.
 ''South Florida,'' he said, ''is working off of a totally new economic model than any of us have ever experienced in the past.''
 The can't-miss aura of real estate has also helped nudge many families to invest more of their personal wealth in real estate by buying more expensive homes and taking on riskier mortgages -- much as ordinary workers used their 401(k) plans to bet on company stocks. 
 There are certainly serious reasons to believe that house prices will not suffer the fate of technology stocks. Not only are houses more tangible, but people do not sell their homes as quickly as stocks, making a panic much less likely. Because of tax advantages, few owners are likely to sell and rent something else simply because local house prices start to decline. 
 As high as they might seem now on the coasts, home prices nationally have not quite doubled over the last decade; during the 1990's, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index more than quadrupled.
 ''I just don't think we have what it takes to prick the bubble,'' said Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago, who was an optimist during the 90's. ''I don't think prices are going to fall, and I don't think they're even going to be flat.'' 
 Such confidence about real estate has created a 1990's-like stampede of new investors. The night before the Nexus party, Patrick Cullert, 31, and Jennifer Mathews, 29, who are engaged, camped out to ensure they would be near the head of the line for one of 16 condos to be sold at the party. It was today's version of pestering a broker for shares in a hot public offering.
 And many former stock market enthusiasts are now turning to housing. Douglas Paul, a 46-year-old former analyst, left AT&T in 2002 to buy and sell stocks on his own. But he soon decided that real estate could be another way to make quick profits. Mr. Paul owns two condominium units around Fort Lauderdale and one in Miami Beach, all bought during the last year, in addition to the one where he lives. He plans to sell one of the Fort Lauderdale condos in June for what he believes will be double his investment.
 ''It really is a very hot real estate market, and I don't know how long it's going to continue,'' he said. ''But in the short term, why not profit from it?''
 Mr. Paul's path is an increasingly common one. The National Association of Realtors estimates that nearly one-quarter of home purchases last year were made by people who thought of the house as an investment rather than a place to live. Seminars promising to teach amateurs the tricks of real estate speculation have proliferated. 
 Even at Harvard Business School, where students have traditionally gravitated to careers in investment banking and corporate marketing, real estate is suddenly hot. About 25 graduates have taken real estate jobs in each of the last two years, up from only six in 2001. 
 It is not quite the gold rush of 2000, when about 200 Harvard M.B.A. graduates flocked to technology companies. But even if they are not working in real estate, some of those graduates are now investing in it.
 Andrew Farquharson, a member of the class of 1999, said he recently teamed up with a high school friend to buy a home in the Central Valley of California ''out of pure speculation.'' He knows of other classmates who have made similar investments.
 ''I look at this as a short-term investment,'' said Mr. Farquharson, 36, who works for a venture capital firm, ''and plan to unload it as soon as things look dangerous.''
 In addition to the flood of investors, the parallels between real estate and stocks extend into mainstream culture.
 Real estate bulletin boards and blogs like Curbed.com and Real Estate Pimp have taken the place of financial chat rooms like Tokyo Joe's. ABC has a breakout hit in ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' and Home and Garden Television, a once-obscure cable channel, now draws an average of 827,000 viewers in prime time. 
 The seemingly inevitable how-to guide inspired by Donald Trump -- ''Trump Strategies for Real Estate'' (John Wiley & Sons) by George Ross, one of Mr. Trump's assistants on his hit show ''The Apprentice'' -- is a strong seller, already hitting No. 177 on Amazon.com's list in March, less than a month after its release.
 At the Nexus party in Brooklyn, Steve Nguyen, Ms. Romano's fiance, said he was heeding Mr. Trump's advice. ''He says buy, buy, buy,'' Dr. Nguyen said.
 The same message is being trumpeted by David A. Lereah, chief economist of the Realtors association, who argues in his new book, ''Are You Missing the Real Estate Boom?'' (Currency), that real estate investors will ''experience substantial and satisfying wealth gains'' into the next decade. 
 The question that looms over these books is whether they will suffer the fate of another optimistic talisman, ''Dow 36,000'' (Times Books), which was a best seller in late 1999. Its authors, James K. Glassman and Kevin A. Hassett, argued that stock prices, despite five years of roaring gains, ''could double, triple or even quadruple tomorrow and still not be too high.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average hovered around 11,000 when ''Dow 36,000'' was published. It dropped below 8,000 in 2002 and closed at 10,442.87 yesterday.
 Another lingering echo of the stock market boom is the role of the Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank. In the 1990's, the Fed kept interest rates relatively low because it saw little risk of rising inflation despite a booming economy, helping feed a fever for stocks. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, famously asked aloud in 1996 whether ''irrational exuberance'' was driving the stock market, but then backed off from second-guessing investors.
 After the market plunged and the economy weakened, the Fed pushed interest rates down to 50-year lows, helping to fuel the housing boom. This month, Mr. Greenspan made some comments about housing that offered a faint echo of his 1996 musings. 
 ''Analysts have conjectured that the extended period of low interest rates is spawning a bubble in housing prices in the United States that will, at some point, implode,'' Mr. Greenspan said in a speech in New York, adding that real estate speculation had shown a ''marked increase.'' Nevertheless, he said he did not expect a ''destabilizing'' drop in prices, in part because home prices across the country have never fallen significantly.
 But by one measure, houses in at least a few metropolitan areas are as expensive as telecommunications stocks were in 1999, relative to their underlying value.
 The average house in San Jose, Calif., costs 35 times what it would cost to rent for a year, according to Economy.com, a research company. In New York and West Palm Beach, this ratio -- a rough equivalent of the price-earnings ratio for stocks -- is almost 25.
 In March 2000, the price-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500 -- the combined price of the stocks, divided by their profits per share -- peaked around 32, and it was briefly even higher for telecommunications stocks. The S.&P.'s P.E. ratio has since fallen to around 20.
 Still, no matter how expensive real estate might be, it continues to provide many owners a return worth boasting about.
 Holly Peterson, who is writing a novel about the idiosyncrasies of New York's rich, said that at dinner parties in Manhattan, she frequently hears complaints about high home prices, followed by claims of quick profits. ''They always hit you with their last jab: 'Of course my money's doubled three times over since I got married,''' she said.
 Five years ago, she said, friends at parties were crowing about ''making millions of dollars on paper with $25,000 and $50,000 investments.'' But ''most of those people,'' she added, ''got wiped out.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Paul, 46, at his home near Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He now has three other properties in South Florida and plans to sell one in June. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Boom Boom''For most of the 20th century, housing prices rose at roughly the same rate as inflation. They have spiked in recent years. That has reminded some economists of the bull market of the 1990's, although the gains in home values have not been as striking.HOME VALUESAdjusted for inflation and construction qualitySTOCK VALUESPrice to earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's index based on previous 10 years' earnings and adjusted for inflationGraphs track home values and stock values since the 20th century.(Source by Prof. Robert J. Shiller, Yale University)(pg. C2)Chart: ''From One Exuberance to Another''In the 1990's, stock watching became a national obsession. Investors logged on to the Internet several times a day to check their holdings and made plans to retire in their 40's. Now, there are signs that real estate has replaced stocks as a favorite way to strike it rich.ThenAlan GreenspanDecember 1996''Clearly, sustained low inflation implies less uncertainty about the future, and lower risk premiums imply higher prices of stocks and other earning assets . . . But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values . . . ?''NowAlan GreenspanMarch 2005''Analysts have conjectured that the extended period of low interest rates is spawning a bubble in housing prices in the United States that will, at some point, implode.''(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); STARTUPS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); SALES FIGURES (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Mortgages; Stocks and Bonds; Housing; Housing

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (88%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



521 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Cablevision Bid Is Said to Beat Offer by Jets

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Cablevision, which has spent a year and tens of millions of dollars trying to block the Jets and the city from building a stadium over the West Side railyards, has bid $760 million for the property, topping the team's competing offer by $40 million, according to an executive who works with the company.
 The executive said that Cablevision, unlike the Jets, submitted an ''all cash, noncontingent'' offer to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority on Monday for the 13-acre parcel along 11th Avenue between 30th and 33rd Streets.
 Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden and regards the proposed stadium as a threat to its business, has not disclosed many financial aspects of its proposal to buy and then develop the site, but it has indicated that its plans include apartment towers, a hotel, a five-acre park, a school and a performing arts enclave on a platform over the railyards. Cablevision estimates that its project would take 12 years to complete. 
 The bidding for the development rights has escalated rapidly since Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of the transportation authority, decided to terminate his exclusive negotiations with the Jets in February and open the bidding up to any prospective buyers. Mr. Kalikow's unhappiness with the Jets' original $100 million offer was compounded when Cablevision suddenly said it would pay significantly more for the property. 
 He said the transportation authority, which is struggling with fare increases, service cuts and shortages in its capital program, had a duty to get the most for the property it could. 
 At this point, it is difficult to draw any quick conclusions about which of the latest bids would be the most lucrative because the offers are so different and there are few details available. The Jets' bid alone runs 1,000 pages.
 Jets officials, for their part, raised their bid to $720 million when they submitted their latest proposal on Monday. The team, which is putting up $280 million, made its offer in combination with a group of developers who agreed to buy additional development rights for $440 million on the condition that the city agrees to rezone the property.
 A third company, TransGas Energy Systems, offered $1.05 billion, although it requires that the transportation authority help the company build a power plant in Brooklyn and sign a 20-year contract to buy power from TransGas.
 There is no doubt that the outcome of the bidding could determine whether Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg succeeds in his quest for a structure that he says could start the redevelopment of the area and serve as an Olympic stadium if the city wins its bid for the 2012 Games.
 Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the Regional Plan Association, which favors the development of housing and some office buildings on the West Side instead of a stadium, hailed Cablevision's offer.
 ''We now have a noncontingent bid that outperforms the Jets both economically and from an urban design standpoint,'' he said. ''Because it's noncontingent, there's no risk to the M.T.A., and the taxpayers are spared $600 million in stadium subsidies.''
 The city and state have agreed to invest $600 million in the $1.7 billion stadium, with the team covering the remaining cost. 
 The Jets, not surprisingly, dismissed the merits of Cablevision's offer. ''It doesn't matter what number Cablevision pulls out of thin air, because their proposal isn't real, and the M.T.A. will see right through it,'' said Matt Higgins, a Jets vice president.
 Mr. Kalikow hopes to select a winner at the transportation authority's board meeting on Thursday. In the meantime, it hired the Newmark real estate company to evaluate the offers. 
 Real estate experts say the authority will have to take into consideration the fact that part of the Jets offer, $440 million, is contingent on the city agreeing to rezone the railyards, a move that would take at least a year and require an environmental review, public hearings and approval by the City Council.
 Cablevision also wants the property rezoned, but it is offering $760 million without any conditions, according to the executive. Judging by its original offer, Cablevision's bid includes the cost of building a deck over the yards, which could cost $350 million, leaving the authority with a net of $410 million.
 A lawyer for Cablevision sent a letter to the authority yesterday complaining about what it said was the authority's ''failure to release the bids promptly for public review.'' It also questioned whether Newmark could fairly assess the bids when several of the company's executives had contributed to the city's effort to win the Olympics. 
 Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the authority, said its general counsel had found no grounds for disqualification. Newmark, he said, will not be involved in discussions with the bidders or board members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ZONING (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); POWER PLANTS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (60%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



522 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Columbia Plans 2nd Master's in Journalism

BYLINE: By EMMA DALY

 BODY:
More than two years after Columbia University began an intense, even painful, debate on how to revamp the way journalists are trained, it plans a second one-year master's degree program to provide expertise in various subject areas.
 The Graduate School of Journalism is adding a one-year Master of Arts program, the first new degree it has offered in 70 years, to its yearlong Master of Science, to give student journalists a chance to specialize in politics, business, the arts or science. 
 ''There is no profession more important in the modern world than being a journalist,'' Lee C. Bollinger, the president of Columbia and a First Amendment lawyer whose father was a newspaper executive, said this week. ''I felt that journalism education had not developed to the same point in terms of providing the richness of what a great university like Columbia can offer.'' 
 The contours of the new program represent something of a compromise. When Mr. Bollinger raised the prospect of a revamped journalism program in a speech in 2003, he envisioned a mandatory two-year master's degree program. But some critics worried that students would not be able to afford a second year at an institution where annual tuition and room and board run more than $50,000. Mr. Bollinger, who called for improving journalism education only weeks after taking office in June 2002, stirred controversy among the faculty and within the profession. But his appointment in September 2003 of Nicholas Lemann, the New Yorker writer, as dean of the journalism school, soothed colleagues and eased the path to the new program. 
 To assuage concerns about tuition costs, Mr. Lemann promised that financial aid would be available for most students and said the school would also help them find better jobs at higher salaries.
 The university is helping to subsidize the two dozen students who will begin the new program this fall, he said last week, adding that early fund-raising efforts have already netted more than $20 million.
 Mr. Lemann said the students in the new program would be drawn from those who had completed the journalism school's one-year master's program, those who held similar degrees from another university and working journalists who might not have a journalism degree. Each type of potential student would have to apply for admission to the new program. 
 There will be two compulsory courses, a history of journalism and another, taught by the dean, on evidence and inference, in which students will learn to find and interpret statistics, archives and legal documents. 
 The program will also feature four yearlong seminars, based on subjects taught elsewhere in the university but intended for journalists. These include arts and culture, economics and business, politics and science. The program plans to add other courses, including immersion courses in Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish.
 ''We were very clear that what's involved here is not farming out students to different disciplines, to simply learn what you learn in any political science class,'' Mr. Bollinger said, ''but, how do you create the materials and subject and form and shape of a deep, professional education for journalists?'' 
 Both men acknowledged that it would take years before they could claim success for the new degree, which is expected to enroll 24 or 25 students for the class of 2006, rising to around 200 after a few years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



523 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2240 words

HEADLINE: Wet, Wild ... Wisconsin?

BYLINE: By NEAL KARLEN

 BODY:
THE lobby of the Kalahari Waterpark in the Wisconsin Dells at check-in time on a recent Saturday afternoon was equal parts Marx Brothers anarchy, Andy Hardy freckles and ''Dude, Where's My Car?'' goofiness. Just as the line to the front desk began moving, five revelers barely into their teens hijacked an empty luggage rack, and with one pushing and four aboard, raced, shrieking, around the lobby, which seemed roughly the size of a par-three nine-hole golf course. 
 I quickly cruised the lobby in search of my friend Julia, a fine-arts administrator who did not want her last name used because she was embarrassed even to be seen in the Dells. Not finding her, I went back outside and ran into a traffic jam. The gridlock consisted mostly of two types of vehicles trying to get near this hostelry, which has a 125,000-square-foot indoor water park, the largest in the country. On the one hand were the monster-size recreational vehicles, which disgorged the incoming families. Going up against them were teenagers revving the engines of a score of pizza-delivery cars, lined up like impatient taxi drivers at the airport as they waited to drop off their wares and rush back for more. 
 No wonder the din of bleating horns: the oceans of Kalahari water are an apt symbol of the Wisconsin Dells, which over the last 15 years has become the indoor hydropark capital of the world. Now, with 18 indoor water parks, the Dells attracts 2.5 million people annually, more than a million of them in what used to be the off-season at this summer vacation spot. Tourist spending during the off-peak months, September to April, has increased 269 percent, to $329 million in 2002 from $88.4 million in 1993, according to the Wisconsin Dells Visitor and Convention Bureau.
 ''It's Las Vegas for kids,'' my friend Richard Mammen, a 54-year-old urban policy consultant, said approvingly one week after he drove from Minneapolis with his 9-year-old son, Jack, to go on giant flume rides. ''I wanted to teach Jack about taking risks, and of course I ended up having to be the adult going down the big slide. 
 ''I was very impressed by how many opportunities there were at the arcade downtown to take quarters from children,'' he said. ''But it's a pretty good day for a 9-year old when he can shoot the rapids inside your hotel, followed by 18 holes of miniature golf, then gamble on Skee-Ball, and then top it off with French toast at midnight at Denny's. For a 9-year old, that's a big old night downtown.''
 I walked back inside the Kalahari, an African-themed hotel of 738 rooms and suites, suitable for families of any size. Greeting guests at the front door was a lion cub pacing a few steps each way in a glass cell. Seeing the small space and the many gawkers, one needn't be a PETA sympathizer to feel lousy. Past the lion, three of-age young men wearing jackets from Marquette University, the Jesuit college 116 miles southeast in Milwaukee, were carrying in a case each of Grain Belt beer. Despite many admonitions in hotel brochures saying ''swimsuit cover-up required,'' chunky boys in unfortunately sized Speedos walked past high school girls in microdot bikinis. 
 ''Psssst, over here,'' my friend Julia said from a few yards away. Like a hotel detective, she had been eyeing the hotel's controlled maelstrom behind yesterday's newspaper for 45 minutes. ''I told you we should have rented kids,'' she said. 
 She had driven 188 miles from Chicago, and I had come 230 miles from Minneapolis to meet here, during the bottom of our endless Midwest winters for a weekend in the Dells, a 15-mile stretch along the Wisconsin River that the RoadsideAmerica.com travel guide describes as a ''cheese-dense strip of motels, tourist traps, and singular attractions.''
 Julia refused to suspend her disbelief the week before on the phone when I tried to appeal to her higher sensibilities by pointing out the Pirandelloesque absurdity of such a trip. ''What are you, a few French fries short of a Happy Meal?'' she snapped. I finally talked her into coming by promising that we could visit the Circus World Museum in nearby Baraboo, Wis., which has an unparalleled collection of clown-related paraphernalia.
 A former practitioner, she had once dreamed of going to clown college. It was a Faustian bargain; I loathed clowns as much as Jeff Daniels hated spiders in ''Arachnaphobia,'' but I was secretly looking forward to a ride on the world's only indoor surfing machine.
 The Dells first became popular as a tourist destination in the 1950's. And although these days some visitors may be attracted to the Kalahari's Master Blaster, an almost 200-yard-tall water roller-coaster, others are as passionate to see a century-old clown suit, take a free tour of a cheese factory and be rewarded with their own fresh curds, or, in summer, race around what may be the world's largest go-kart complex. 
 For adults not tuned to their inner child, there is also a 15-screen first-run movie theater attached to the hotel, and the Ho-Chunk Indian casino is just a few miles away. At some hotels, pools open at 7 a.m. and drinks are served only a few hours later.
 We had made last-second reservations for a Saturday-night stay, and got the last accommodations available. 
 Our room, with two double beds and a two-person pull-out couch, smelling of smoke, cost $279 plus tax. The in-room movies, strictly PG fare, included winners like ''Sideways'' and ''Anchorman,'' and also featured the ''Pool Channel,'' where parents could monitor the waterpark from different viewpoints.
 ''Do you mind if I go try the Master Blaster or FlowRider?'' I asked Julia.
 ''Do you mind if I wear a T-shirt that says 'I'm With Stupid'?'' she responded. ''You go ahead,'' she added, pushing the buttons to watch Alexander Payne's ''Sideways,'' a film about a would-be-serious middle-aged writer who can't let go of his childhood.
 I went back to the lobby holding my knee-length swimsuit. After standing in line for five minutes to get the all-access bracelet for the swimming area (included with the room), I walked out of the locker room and ran into an air-sucking fist of humidity that felt like something from a Graham Greene novel. Regaining my breath, I looked about and saw what seemed like five football fields of water, with paths between the alternately violent or placid pools. There were snack stands, a hot tub and a swimming pool volleyball game.
 And: the Master Blaster, a 570-foot uphill water roller coaster, the only one in the country; the FlowRider, featuring 50,000 gallons of water being shot upward in a 40-by-60-foot boxlike shape; the flume ride, carrying passengers inside what looks like Barney Rubble's car chassis; and, for the faint of heart, a 504-foot-long Family Raft Ride, which harks placidly back to Huck Finn, or at least the kiddie rides at Disneyland. 
 Climbing an unnamed slide a couple of hundred feet in the air, I went down on my stomach, curling into a fetal ball at the last second and splashing a half dozen people. ''Nice shooting, Tex,'' said a 30ish man wearing a mesh Green Bay Packers bathing suit as his two children wiped the spray out of their eyes. ''Excellent.''
 But I wanted more. I'd always loved annoying rock critic friends of mine by saying that the Beach Boys were inherently phony because only Dennis Wilson could surf. If I could be half successful on the FlowRider, I would love to be able to say: ''They're so lame. I can surf better than all of the Beach Boys except Dennis.''
 I headed over to the box, where two jet-propelled 85-horsepower motors generate the thousands of gallons of spray per minute uphill as one tries to navigate down. Ignoring instruction, I took my surfboard (smaller than the ones used on beaches) and fell backward trying to get on. Sliding face first down the gush of water, I tried not to hear the laughter, and thought of the name of a new ride: the Shame Spiral.
 I returned to the room defeated; Julia was laughing at ''Sideways'' and reading the half-dozen coupons for pizza delivery that had been placed on the television cabinet. ''When are we going to see the clown museum?'' she asked.
 ''Don't you see the Dells are about much more than clowns?'' I shot back.
 It was almost unthinkable a generation ago to perceive of the Wisconsin Dells as a place someone would consciously want to visit. For many Midwestern baby boomers, the memories of being shoehorned together on long family car trips to the Dells have only started to fade.
 ''The mere words 'Wisconsin Dells' always made me remember how much I hated family driving vacations,'' Mr. Mammen said. Another friend says that his relationship with his father never recovered from the time he spilled a triple-decker banana split in the car when he was 7, the temperature was 102, and the air-conditioning didn't work.
 MORE than 8,000 rooms are available throughout the Dells. Besides the Kalahari, another big place to stay is the Wilderness Hotel & Golf Resort. Cabins, set off from the Wilderness's main building, are 3,500 square feet on three levels, big enough for extended families to congregate and to escape one another's company. One such cabin, with a hot tub, a foosball table and a wet bar, goes for about $675 a night in winter. Five-bedroom cabins are $750 to $975 a night on winter and early spring weekends; $495 to $645 during the week.
 Back at the Ivory Coast Lounge adjacent to the Kalahari's waterpark, two middle-aged couples from Madison were playing gin rummy and quaffing 11 a.m. bloody marys. Preferring to remain anonymous (''We don't want our boss to know we'll have a drink at 11 a.m.''), the group's spokesman said: ''We come here every year at winter, when it's less crowded. We bring everybody: the kids, Grandma and Grandpa. They swim. We play gin rummy, and everybody goes home happy.''
 ''Circus World museum in Baraboo?'' Julia asked. After an early dinner so we could get to Circus World and then begin our drives home, we got lost. We passed the Ho-Chunk casino several times. The parking lot was full every time we went by. 
 We finally got to Circus World 10 minutes before it closed at 6 p.m.. and the cashier, seemingly the only employee, waved us in without charge. There is a reason the museum is in the Dells, spread out over 51 acres and a score of buildings and big-tops. The five Ringling brothers founded a traveling troupe in 1882 under the moniker ''Ringling Brothers' Classic and Concert Company,'' and they would spend winters in Baraboo, near their homes. Everything from the elephant barn to the wardrobe department still stands. In 1927, the company started spending winters in Sarasota, Fla.; the Baraboo location was named a National Historic Landmark in 1969.
 Julia was off to see the collections while I went to the gift shop, and then drifted into the museum to see an astounding array of posters, from Tom Thumb to the Giraffe-Necked Woman to the lion tamer Gunther Gebel-Williams. There is a picture of George H.W. Bush tossing a straw hat into a circus ring in 1988, the year he ran successfully for president. It's a tradition that began when Woodrow Wilson threw his hat into just such a ring to announce that he was running for president.
 The museum says it has the largest research center on circuses, with thousands of photos, the history of 2,000 troupes and biographical data on a half-million circus performers. And everywhere there were clowns on the wall: Emmett Kelly, Red Skelton, men on posters from 1910 who looked as tragic as Pavarotti in Pagliacci's makeup. Thank goodness we hadn't come in summer when the real ones come out for the tourists. 
 ''We better go,'' I told Julia. ''They're closing up.''
 ''Oh no, stay as long as you want; I've just started my book,'' the cashier said, holding up a John Irving novel as thick as a phone directory.
 ''Are there more clown-related exhibits?'' Julia asked.
 ''Oh, many,'' the cashier said, pointing the way as I trudged along behind, an atheist in this church.
 ''Pirandelloesque; think Pirandelloesque,'' were the last words I heard from Julia as she careered around the corner.

When You're Out of the Pool

THE town of Wisconsin Dells is an hour's drive from Dane County Regional Airport in Madison, Wis., and three hours from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. Driving directions and more information are available from the Wisconsin Dells Visitor & Convention Bureau (800-223-3557; www.wisdells.com).
 This time of year, weekend rates for a standard double (a pair of queen-size beds and a sleeper sofa) at the Kalahari Waterpark Resort Convention Center (1305 Kalahari Drive; 877-253-5466) start at $259 a night ($129 weekdays). Weekend rates for suites begin at $349 a night. From Memorial Day through Labor Day, standard rooms are $259 and suites are $369.
 At the Wilderness Hotel & Golf Resort (511 East Adams Street; 800-867-9453), rooms with two queen beds and a sleeper sofa begin at $200 on Friday and Saturday nights, and $99 the rest of the week in the fall and winter. From mid-June to Labor Day, rooms start at $150 during the week and $269 on the weekend.
 In the area's sea of gift shops, the very best (even if you loathe clowns) is at Circus World Museum (550 Water Street in nearby Baraboo; 866-693-1500). The museum is open year-round; adult admission in the fall and winter is $7, children ages 5 to 11 are charged $3.50. From May 21 to Labor Day, admission is $14.95 for adults and $7.95 for children.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SPLASH DOWN -- A slide at a Wisconsin Dells water park.(Photograph by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
WATER WORLD -- The indoor water park at the Kalahari in the Dells, the area called the world's hydropark capital.
 DRIVER ED -- Josh Shaffer helps Kayla Swanningson, 5, on a surf ride. (Photographs by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); GOLF (90%); WATER PARKS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TOURISM (50%) Amusement and Theme Parks; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Neal Karlen

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Wisconsin Dells (Wis); Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



524 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Fixing a Leaky Roof, and What a Roof!; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: The Tale of the Tiles on City Center's Cap

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
In the natural life cycle of Manhattan's landmarks, the force of weather and the relentlessness of time have conspired to burden this generation of New Yorkers with a notable work of reconstruction. 
 It is time, now, to do the dome. 
 The $2.8 million terra-cotta dome of New York City Center caps the 81-year-old performing arts hall that is one of the city's most colorfully ornate public buildings -- thanks to its genesis as the Mecca Temple of the Ancient Arabic Order of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine. 
 Though the Shriners who mandated the building's construction and planned its complex but gaudy summit are long gone, now it has, like some faux-Moorish comet, returned to dazzle and perplex a new generation entrusted with its survival. The 50-foot-high dome exceeded its original longevity expectations -- 75 years -- since the building at 135 West 55th Street between Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas was constructed from 1922 to 1924. 
 ''But water is the enemy of any building, and there was a safety issue, since tiles were falling off and the roof was leaking,'' said Arlene Shuler, president and chief executive of City Center. ''The building is iconic, but the dome is its crowning feature.'' 
 Indeed, for many years, the dome's shape was part of the institution's familiar circle logo.
 The dome, which is 104 feet in diameter, is rare in that it was devised as a perfect geometric sphere, although it looks more like an oblate spheroid. That's because the dome emerges from the roof above the sphere's widest theoretical diameter. Beyond that, it is ''the only graduated clay-tile dome in the Northeast, so it's unique,'' said Bob Anderson, the reconstruction foreman from the general contractor, Nicholson & Galloway. He was referring to the dome's 28,475 Spanish tiles, which are graduated, meaning that they change in shape, getting narrower closer to the top. 
 ''We had never constructed such a dome, so it was like building the pyramids,'' said Mr. Anderson, who has helped refurbish many other Manhattan roofs. Normally, he said, Spanish tile is used to cover only ordinary traditional pitched roofs or mansard roofs. As for domes, most of them are sheathed in copper or limestone, like the one at Low Library at Columbia University. 
 Above all, the new dome must not look new, ''to prevent the Disneyland effect,'' said Susanne Mackiw, the project manager, a senior associate with Helpern Architects in Manhattan. ''We don't want it to look absolutely perfect, like a mock dome, because this is the real deal.'' And so, red, light red and ochre terra-cotta tiles are being installed in a random pattern to give the dome that heirloom quality, conforming to the venerability of the building, which was made a landmark in 1984. 
 So far, the tile work is about half finished, and now just visible over the roofline from the Avenue of the Americas and 55th Street, one of the best vantage points from the street. (The dome was more visible in 1924, when most surrounding skyscrapers had not been built.) Construction is due to be substantially completed in April. 
 For some years it had been apparent that the dome was leaking, since the 1920's waterproofing membrane, made of thick felt, began to fail. Water was seeping from the dome into the glorious domed ceiling above the 2,753-seat auditorium, staining and flaking its pristine ornamental plaster. 
 To assess the condition of the underside of the tile dome, the architects hired a team of construction fliers, who hung from cables while photographing and videotaping every inch of the support structure. 
 Then, laser surveying equipment was used to perfectly measure the curvature and size of the dome so that tiles could be cut within tight tolerances to fit. As reconstructions go, it was perhaps a small miracle that Ludowici Roof Tile of New Lexington, Ohio -- which had fired the original tiles -- ''was able to create the new ones,'' said Lloyd G. Westerman, the dome construction manager. 
 Since the weight of the workers' footsteps could have cracked the tiles, the installers designed a 50-foot-long, flexible fiberglass ladder that could snake up the curving side of the dome to provide access for the installation over the original mortar deck of the dome tiles. That mortar had been mixed with asbestos fibers, so the cement had to be encapsulated in an acrylic coating to prevent asbestos from escaping into the air.
 Although most rainwater will be shed by the new tiles, the contractors have installed underneath some 14,000 square feet of a new eighth-inch-thick waterproof membrane made of liquid fiberglass resin. Above the membrane, workers installed a new spider web of 23,300 linear feet of steel track; now they are tacking the tiles to this frame using a fastening system of 8,000 stainless steel hurricane anchors of the kind used to keep roofs in Florida from lifting in high winds. 
 Despite the snows and cold blasts of winter, about 20 workers have been doggedly stabilizing the dome and installing four courses of tile upward, and 25 tiles across, at a time. These days hardhats are shuttling like spiders over what will be 469 rows of tiles, moving ever upward until 75 courses are all installed. Because of strong winds and treacherous footing, the workers on the roof must be attached to safety harnesses.
 The Helpern firm, working under a contract with the New York City Department of Design and Construction, is completing the restoration under the auspices of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. The dome restoration is the capstone of a number of City Center improvements costing more than $15 million in recent years.
 These renovations include the refurbishing of the auditorium, window upgrades, a replacement of street sidewalks, a new storm and drainage system and an extensive updating of the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system. This work has been in addition to the $2 million cost of maintaining the facility each year, part of City Center's $12 million operating budget.
 The fantastically decorated building was originally constructed by the Shriners with faux-Moorish details in a style termed ''Modified Arabian'' by the original architects, Harry P. Knowles and Clinton & Russell. It was saved from its near fate as a parking garage by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, who conducted the New York Philharmonic as it played the national anthem when the building opened as the city's first performing arts center on Dec. 11, 1943. 
 In recent years, City Center has been a performance space for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Paul Taylor Dance Company and the American Ballet Theater, as well as for theater presentations like the ''Encores! Great American Musicals in Concert'' series. 
 The dome's 50-foot-wide copper crown has been replaced, but the dome's eight-foot-tall copper finial has not yet been reinstalled, though its restoration is nearly complete. 
 And how long can the new roof be expected to last? ''Should be 100 years,'' said Ms. Mackiw, the project manager. 
 So be forewarned, New Yorkers of 2105.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers continue to rebuild the terra-cotta dome of New York City Center. The 50-foot-high dome at the performing arts hall at 135 West 55th Street lasted 75 years before water damage took a toll and new tiles were needed.
Framing the refurbished dome is a mix of steel and liquid fiberglass resin. The goal is to give the dome an heirloom quality while making it waterproof. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Under the cap at City Center. ''We had never constructed such a dome,'' the foreman said, ''so it was like building the pyramids.''
 Tile by tile, the reconstruction continues. The building, which was made a landmark in 1984, has housed dance and concert performers. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); ROOFING MATERIALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



525 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Jump as Buyers Seek to Beat Rate Rises

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
New-home sales rose by the most they have in four years and prices jumped to a record in February, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, as buyers sought to beat rising mortgage rates. Orders for big-ticket goods also increased during the month.
 Home purchases rose 9.4 percent to a higher-than-expected 1.226 million annual rate, the agency said. The median price increased 9.6 percent, the biggest gain since February 1993, to $230,700. 
 The February price increase, which reflected a jump in the number of homes costing $200,000 or more, followed an 8.6 percent slump in January that was the largest since September 1981.
 The Federal Reserve raised its overnight bank lending rate this week for a seventh consecutive time since June and said there were signs that inflation was picking up, contributing to higher borrowing costs for consumers. 
 This week's average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 6.01 percent, the highest it has been since July 2004, from 5.95 percent last week, Freddie Mac, a buyer of mortgages, said yesterday. The low was 5.21 percent in June 2003.
 ''Thirty-year mortgage rates have been slow to rise, but they're making up for it now,'' said Paul H. Brewbaker, chief economist at the Bank of Hawaii. ''That's where this 'last-chance sale ends tomorrow' mentality among buyers is coming from.''
 The Commerce Department also said that durable goods orders increased 0.3 percent in February, the third rise in four months, aided by a rebound in aircraft demand.
 The increase in orders, to $201 billion, followed a 1.1 percent decline in January. 
 Orders excluding transportation fell 0.2 percent, the first drop in three months, after a 0.9 percent gain in January that was bigger than previously reported, the Commerce Department said.
 The drop in February's orders excluding transportation may be a belated response to the end of tax incentives intended to spur orders in 2004, economists said.
 ''We were due for a pause,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn. ''These figures are certainly not a cause for concern.''
 Also yesterday, the Labor Department reported that initial jobless claims rose unexpectedly last week by 3,000, to 324,000, while remaining at a level that suggests that jobs were added this month. The less-volatile four-week moving average was 321,750, down 5.4 percent from a year ago, according to the report. The economy created 262,000 jobs in February, the most in four months. 
 ''Companies are generally becoming more confident despite the increase in energy costs and interest rates,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management in St. Louis. ''Sales and orders remain strong and companies are even experiencing some increase in pricing power. All this is leading to increased hiring and a general easing in layoffs.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Feb.: +9.4%Jan.: -8.6Dec.: +4.5Graph tracks annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted, from October 2003 to February 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Feb.: +0.3%Jan.: -1.1Dec.: +1.5Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from September 2003 to February 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); JOB CREATION (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Interest Rates; United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Housing; Hiring and Promotion; Records and Achievements; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF HAWAII CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department; Freddie Mac; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BOH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



526 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: General Electric Raises First-Quarter Forecast

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The General Electric Company raised its forecast for first-quarter earnings by a penny a share yesterday, citing strength across its businesses and proceeds from the sale of 80.5 million shares of Genworth Financial in a secondary offering. 
 Shares of G.E., which is considered a bellwether for the nation's economy because of its wide range of businesses, rose more than half a percent. 
 G.E., based in Fairfield, Conn., continues to benefit from improvements in global manufacturing demand, a rebounding commercial aviation market and earnings improvements at its media and health care units. 
 G.E., whose businesses include gas turbines, television shows and credit cards, said it now expected first-quarter earnings to be either 37 cents or 38 cents a share. Previously it had forecast 36 cents to 37 cents a share. 
 Wall Street analysts, on average, have been looking for earnings of 37 cents a share, according to Reuters estimates. The company earned 32 cents a share in last year's first quarter. 
 Because G.E. has more than 10 billion shares of stock outstanding, a penny of earnings per share can represent as much as $160 million of net income. 
 ''G.E.'s end markets continue to show solid growth, and our businesses are performing very well,'' Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive, said in a statement. 
 A G.E. spokesman, David Frail, called the first-quarter performance ''broad based,'' adding that it might be premature to single out any businesses before the quarter was finished. 
 G.E. did not change its full-year earnings forecast. It confirmed its outlook for earnings of $1.76 to $1.83 a share in 2005. Analysts expect $1.81 a share, according to Reuters estimates. 
 The company will get net proceeds of about $2.6 billion from the Genworth offering and a related repurchase from G.E. of Genworth Class B common shares, G.E. said. 
 Shares of G.E. rose 23 cents, to $35.73. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%); GNW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



527 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

President of Kyrgyzstan Forced Out in Uprising
Protesters alleging corruption, repression and electoral fraud forced the longtime president of Kyrgyzstan to flee his palace, the third time a government of a former Soviet republic has been toppled in a popular uprising in a year and a half. Kyrgyzstan's Parliament elected a former opposition lawmaker as the country's interim president. A1

Halting Afghan Poppy Growth
The American military will significantly increase its role in halting the production and sale of poppies, opium and heroin in Afghanistan, responding to bumper harvests that far exceed even the most alarming predictions, senior Pentagon officials said. A1

Report on Hariri Investigation
A toughly worded United Nations report into the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, concluded that heavy-handed Syrian interference in Lebanese affairs created the polarizing tensions that led to his death and that a deeply flawed local investigation obstructed efforts to find his killers. A3

Mistake Kills 3 in Iraq
An Iraqi Army patrol mistook a group of police officers for insurgents in northern Iraq and in the ensuing gun battle, 3 men were killed and 10 wounded, officials said. A9

U.N. Report on Sexual Abuse
A report on sexual abuse by peacekeepers recommended, among other things, that the offending soldiers and their commanders be punished by their home countries and that payments made to them be recovered and put into a fund for victims. A8

The Security Council passed a resolution establishing a 10,000- member peacekeeping force for Sudan to reinforce a peace agreement in the south of the country and to lend assistance in the conflicted Darfur region in the west. A8

NATIONAL A10-15

High Court and State Judge Decline Schiavo Appeals
The Supreme Court declined to hear the case of Terri Schiavo and a state judge rejected Gov. Jeb Bush's attempt to intervene, prompting a last-ditch legal scramble by Ms. Schiavo's parents. A1

Regulating Online Politicking
The Federal Election Commission proposed new ways to apply campaign finance rules to online political activity, inviting members of the public to comment on how the agency should regulate such efforts. A10

Retooling Justice Department
The Bush administration is considering a major restructuring of the Justice Department that would create a new national security division in an effort to better coordinate terrorism and espionage investigations. A13

Bioterror Monitors Are Faulted
The federal effort to detect a biological attack in major American cities is faltering because of the way the Environmental Protection Agency is managing the program, the inspector general said. A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Dinosaur's Soft Tissue Found
A 70-million-year-old Tyrannosaurus rex recently discovered in Montana has apparently yielded the improbable, scientists reported: soft tissues, that ''retain some of their original flexibility and resilience.'' A1

Group Cites Drug's Side Effect
A 30-year-old drug to treat hyperactivity made by Abbott Laboratories should be banned immediately because of its toxic effects on the liver, a citizen's group said in a petition to federal drug regulators. A12

New Vaccine for West Africa
A new vaccine tested in West Africa could save the lives of thousands of poor rural children who die each year from bacterial infections, a team of scientists reported. The vaccine is a strengthened version of Prevnar, which has been given widely to American infants since 2000. A4


NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Cablevision Raises Bid For Proposed Stadium Site
Cablevision, which has spent a year and tens of millions of dollars trying to block the New York Jets and the city from building a stadium over the West Side railyards, has bid $760 million for the property, topping the team's competing offer by $40 million, according to an executive who works with the company. B1

Arrest in Fake Hostage Call
A 24-year-old Texas woman was charged with calling in a long-distance hostage hoax that led to a daylong siege in which police SWAT teams in New Brunswick, N.J., surrounded a house in the mistaken belief that a rapist was holding a young girl hostage inside. B5

Court Rules on 9/11 Tapes
New York State's highest court ruled that the Bloomberg administration must release the New York City Fire Department's oral history of the Sept. 11 attack, but said the city could withhold portions that would cause ''serious pain or embarrassment'' to the fire officials who were interviewed. B6

WEEKEND E1-26;E27-34

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-8

OBITUARIES B11

Naftali Halberstam
The grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect, who continued the work of his father in rebuilding a community nearly eradicated by the Holocaust, was 74. B11

Barney Martin
A former New York City detective who went into acting and became best known for playing Jerry Seinfeld's father, Morty, on the television comedy ''Seinfeld,'' he was 82. B11

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Worries Over Real Estate
Real estate-crazed Americans have started behaving in ways that eerily recall the stock market obsession of the late 1990's. The parallels are raising alarms among many economists, even those who acknowledge that there are important differences between homes and stocks that significantly reduce the chances of another meltdown. A1

Sony's Midnight Sale
Sony's PlayStation Portable went on sale at 12:01 a.m. across the nation's time zones, as the company engaged in what has become a favorite tactic of marketers in various lines of business: hyping a new product by making it available when most people are normally in bed. C1

Crude Oil Prices Rise
A day after crude prices showed their largest decline of the year, oil futures bounced back after an explosion at a large refinery in Texas highlighted just how tight the industry's supplies were. C7

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Breakthrough in Bishkek; Tom DeLay's cri de coeur; when you're late, call Albany; Brent Staples marveling on Marvel Comics.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Crossword E34
TV Listings E25
Weather C14


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); SEX OFFENSES (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); JUDGES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (72%); OPIUM (71%); HEROIN (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (66%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KYRGYZSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); SUDAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



528 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: When You're Late, Call Albany

 BODY:
The last two months have not been friendly to New York's subway riders. Stalls, detours -- any wise commuter now knows not to go into a subway station without a good book. 
Looking for someone to blame? Well, the people with the power to do something about it are making critical decisions this moment in Albany. 
 Right now, New York's lawmakers are haggling about how much of the $106-billion-plus budget should go for transportation. The debate is between upstate legislators who want money for roads and bridges versus downstate lawmakers who want to help the Metropolitan Transportation Authority fix its subways. The real fight, of course, is who should pay. 
 The state's mission has to be saving the core services of the authority. This is not a narrow, parochial matter about New York City; this is basic to the health of New York State. If these commuters cannot get to work, the New York City economy suffers. And if you start pulling the plug on the city, the state economy starts heading down the drain.
 An additional source of revenue must be found, and the choice should be based on what is fair, not who has the most high-powered lobbyist. Some of the more reasonable options are a tax on new cars, a motor vehicle registration tax or a surcharge on real estate transfer taxes for sales of properties over $1 million. 
 These revenues should first pay for the fundamentals before they finance any additions to the subways. The hundreds of thousands of riders who have been late to work in the last few months can tell the Legislature that you don't start adding rooms to a house that badly needs fixing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); LOBBYING (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (66%) Transit Systems; Editorials; Subways; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



529 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Coal in a Nice Shade of Green

BYLINE: By Thomas Homer-Dixon and S. Julio Friedmann. 
Thomas Homer-Dixon is director of the Center for Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Toronto. S. Julio Friedmann directs the carbon sequestration project at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, Calif.

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to energy, we are trapped between a rock and several hard places. The world's soaring demand for oil is pushing against the limits of production, lifting the price of crude nearly 90 percent in the last 18 months. Congress's vote in favor of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge won't make much difference because the amount of oil there, at best, is tiny relative to global or even American needs. And relief isn't likely to come anytime soon from drilling elsewhere: oil companies spent $8 billion on exploration in 2003, but discovered only $4 billion of commercially useful oil.
 Sadly, most alternatives to conventional oil can't give us the immense amount of energy we need without damaging our environment, jeopardizing our national security or bankrupting us. The obvious alternatives are other fossil fuels: natural gas and oil products derived from tar sands, oil shale and even coal. But natural gas supplies are tightening, at least in North America. 
 And, of course, all fossil fuels have a major disadvantage: burning them releases carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas that may contribute to climate change. This drawback is especially acute for tar sands, oil shale and coal, which, joule for joule, release far more carbon dioxide than either conventional oil or natural gas. 
 As for energy sources not based on carbon, it would be enormously hard to meet a major percentage of America's energy needs at a reasonable cost, at least in the near term. Take nuclear power -- a source that produces no greenhouse emissions. Even assuming we can find a place to dispose of nuclear waste and deal with the security risks, to meet the expected growth in total American energy demand over the next 50 years would require building 1,200 new nuclear power plants in addition to the current 104 -- or one plant every two weeks until 2050. 
 Solar power? To satisfy its current electricity demand using today's technology, the United States would need 10 billion square meters of photovoltaic panels; this would cost $5 trillion, or nearly half the country's annual gross domestic product. 
 How about hydrogen? To replace just America's surface transportation with cars and trucks running on fuel cells powered by hydrogen, America would have to produce 230,000 tons of the gas -- or enough to fill 13,000 Hindenburg dirigibles -- every day. This could be generated by electrolyzing water, but to do so America would have to nearly double its electricity output, and generating this extra power with carbon-free renewable energy would mean covering an area the size of Massachusetts with solar panels or of New York State with windmills.
 Of course technology is always improving, and down the road some or all of these technologies may become more feasible. But for the near term, there is no silver bullet. The scale and complexity of American energy consumption are such that the country needs to look at many different solutions simultaneously. On the demand side, this means huge investments in conservation and energy efficiency -- two areas that policy makers and consumers have sadly neglected.
 On the supply side, the important thing is to come up with so-called bridge technologies that can power our cities, factories and cars with fewer emissions than traditional fossil fuels while we move to clean energy like solar, wind and safe nuclear power. A prime example of a bridge technology -- one that exists right now -- is gasification. 
 Here's how it works: in a type of power plant called an integrated gasification combined-cycle facility, we change any fossil fuel, including coal, into a superhot gas that is rich in hydrogen -- and in the process strip out pollutants like sulfur and mercury. As in a traditional combustion power plant, the heat generates large amounts of electricity; but in this case, the gas byproducts can be pure streams of hydrogen and carbon dioxide.
 This matters for several reasons. The hydrogen produced could be used as a transportation fuel. Equally important, the harmful carbon dioxide waste is in a form that can be pumped deep underground and stored, theoretically for millions of years, in old oil and gas fields or saline aquifers. This process is called geologic storage, or carbon sequestration, and recent field demonstrations in Canada and Norway have shown it can work and work safely.
 The marriage of gasified coal plants and geologic storage could allow us to build power plants that produce vast amounts of energy with virtually no carbon dioxide emissions in the air. The Department of Energy is pursuing plans to build such a zero-emission power plant and is encouraging energy companies to come up with proposals of their own. The United States, Britain and Germany are also collaborating to build such plants in China and India as part of an effort by the Group of 8. Moreover, these plants are very flexible: although coal is the most obvious fuel source, they could burn almost any organic material, including waste cornhusks and woodchips. 
 This is an emerging technology, so inevitably there are hurdles. For example, we need a crash program of research to find out which geological formations best lock up the carbon dioxide for the longest time, followed by global geological surveys to locate these formations and determine their capacity. Also, coal mining is dangerous and strip-mining, of course, devastates the environment; if we are to mine a lot more coal in the future we will want more environmentally friendly methods.
 On balance, though, this combination of technologies is probably among the best ways to provide the energy needed by modern societies -- including populous, energy-hungry and coal-rich societies like China and India -- without wrecking the global climate.
 Fossil fuels, especially petroleum, powered the industrialization of today's rich countries and they still drive the world economy. But within the lifetimes of our grandchildren, the age of petroleum will wane. The combination of gasified coal plants and geologic storage can be our bridge to the clean energy -- derived from renewable resources like solar and wind power and perhaps nuclear fusion -- of the 22nd century and beyond. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Tim Lane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); WIND ENERGY (78%); COAL GASIFICATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); WIND POWER PLANTS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (65%); NUCLEAR WASTE (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Coal; Coal Gasification and Liquefaction; Coal

PERSON: Thomas Homer-Dixon; S Julio Friedmann

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



530 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Tall French Visitor Takes Up Residence In the Guggenheim

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
THE latest artist to be given Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim to play with is the Frenchman Daniel Buren. His installation is a spectacular folly, a lumberingly chilly and theatrical construction, mirrored floor to ceiling. At 81 feet, it is a corner of what, if it were a cube, would be large enough to enclose the rotunda. Imagine a glass office tower slammed through the front of the building. You enter backstage, as it were, in shadow, under a high tarpaulin, the sight being only of scaffolding and plywood, which supports the dozens of large mirrored panels on the other side. 
 Beyond this Brechtian intro, darkness gives way to light and a brief thrill. The spiraling ramps and circular roof complete themselves in the mirrored reflections, which predictably shift and shimmy in slightly queasy-making fashion along with your movement up or down the ramp. To climb the rotunda is also to pass behind the mirrors at each tier, through the scaffolding that blocks the view across the span, then back out again. 
 This is something of a change for the ordinarily very dry and courtly Mr. Buren. But there are many precedents elsewhere for such trippy, space-dissolving contraptions, by artists like Yayoi Kusama and, more recently, Olafur Eliasson, whose grasp of optics, light and the social aspects of mirrored public spaces trumps Mr. Buren's and is notably less rarefied. The analogy is not to an office tower, in fact. It's Versailles. Mr. Buren has installed his own Hall of Mirrors in the Guggenheim.
 There is not much to the work, phenomenologically speaking, beyond the initial, mildly kaleidoscopic effect of its mirrors. The museum's ramps are empty. Alternative panes of the circular skylight are colored with magenta gels, making a kind of checkerboard pattern, at certain times of day the sun splashing patches of purple onto the upper tiers of the Guggenheim's bobbin. This is pretty. Short kelly-green stripes of tape are stuck below the outside rim of the rotunda's parapet. They, too, reflect in the mirrors, like sprockets of an unspooled film, or like decorative fronds of ivy over the balconies of a hotel atrium. These are not attractive.
 For years, Mr. Buren has been a particular darling of art theorists, beloved for what is perceived as his conceptualist elan. Whether he sees himself this way is a question. At 67, he has enjoyed a long career as a rather arcane reductivist, settling on tasteful stripes -- differently colored but always 8.7 centimeters wide, in paper, fabric, paint or tape -- as his trademark. In the worker-artist vein, he calls his striped paintings ''visual tools.'' 
 Sometimes uninvited, he plasters benches and billboards with stripes, concocts various architectural and environmental structures or sculptures, and in general produces works whose site-specific, purposive, unapproachable banality has been interpreted to symbolize the death of the author, a challenge to the traditional commodity status of art, a critique of the institution of the museum -- counterestablishment ideas when, like Mr. Buren, they emerged 40 or so years ago. 
 By now, he's also a virtual official artist of France, a role that does not seem to trouble some of his once-radical fans. Nor, apparently, does the fact that his brand of institutional analysis, preaching white-box cliches to a converted audience of insiders, invariably depends on the largesse of institutions like the Guggenheim. The warm reception that Mr. Buren gets in such precincts is in curious contrast, as the art critic Katy Siegel pointed out on a panel the other day, with the contempt that Christo and Jeanne-Claude generally receive. Regardless of whether ''The Gates'' was aesthetic kitsch, Christo and Jeanne-Claude, like Mr. Buren, raise familiar issues basic to conceptualism, but they do so in a form more easily digestible and more broadly applicable to the social and economic politics of culture.
 And of course they operate, for the most part, outside traditional institutions, with fiscal independence, in a public sphere beyond the legislative control of art experts. For that matter, Mr. Eliasson's mirrored ceiling in the lobby of Tate Modern in London last year, a hugely popular event and the nearest relative to Mr. Buren's Guggenheim work, was also devised for a free public space, to foster a kind of town square. 
 The critical issue in all these cases is special access to special information: privileged ideas circulated within a closed system, the art world's traditional currency. The mirror, with its solipsistic perspective, seems an apt symbol for Mr. Buren, which is not exactly a criticism. His audience remains ultimately the art world, or the part of it that in turn reflects his romantic faith in an avant-garde. 
 The rest of his Guggenheim show consists of more colored gels in decorative geometric patterns on the windows of Wright's smaller rotunda, literally window dressing, and cheerfully colored striped paintings from the late 1960's and 70's. These are eccentrically aligned, Salon style, on adjacent walls of the museum's High Gallery, just off the rotunda -- signs of paintings, you might say, not simply paintings -- and are arrayed to reflect through the gallery's doorway in the mirrors. They are at once boring and precious.
 Earlier installations in the rotunda by artists like Jenny Holzer and Dan Flavin capitalized memorably on the institutional recalcitrance of Wright's sculptural design and stressed its metaphorical fluidity. Mr. Buren, noting the spiral's skylight (Wright called it an oculus) and pool, like the eye of a tornado, has titled his exhibition ''The Eye of the Storm,'' which is a double entendre.
 In 1971, he devised a banner, 66 by 32 feet, with white and blue stripes on both sides to be hung at the Guggenheim in a big international group show, conceived to encourage artists to exploit the building's eccentric space. Other artists, including Flavin and Donald Judd, protested that the banner blocked views across the rotunda, compromising their works. (Mr. Buren, in turn, said Flavin's fluorescent lights colored his banner.) The night before the opening the banner was removed, provoking a mini-scandal, which provided Mr. Buren, who cried censorship, with the institutional distress and personal notoriety that no doubt had been his goal in the first place.
 His present show, with its mirrored installation partly blocking but now also redoubling views of the rotunda, clearly alludes to this storm 34 years ago, an event that is possibly familiar to art historians, but that most people will have never heard of or will consider a tempest in a teapot at best. An antique kerfuffle, it was merely an inevitable clash of chest-thumping egos, each artist wanting to control the circumstances of his presentation in the museum. 
 Well, Mr. Buren has his turn now. What results is smoke and mirrors. Years ago, Judd chose to pick up his marbles and go to Marfa, Tex., where he installed, in what was essentially his own private museum, 100 of his milled aluminum boxes in two enormous converted military sheds. Light through huge windows now reflects against the shiny metal surfaces, creating myriad complex mirrored effects. Judd, a clever man, understood that simplicity is never easy.

''The Eye of the Storm'' opens today and remains on view at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212)423-3500, through June 8.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Buren's site-specific installation rises from the floor of the Guggenheim Museum's rotunda, with scaffolding on one side and a mirrored corner, reflecting the circular ramp, on the other. At the top,magenta gels color alternate panes of the museum's skylight. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. E27)
 Green stripes attached to therotunda's parapet are reflected in the mirrors, above, and colored gels decorate terrace windows. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. E30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PAINTING (78%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Guggenheim, Solomon R, Museum (NYC) 

PERSON: Michael Kimmelman; Daniel Buren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



531 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

PERSON: Paul L. Shechtman

HEADLINE: Albany's Ethics Policeman Would Like More Muscle

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
THE job looks Sisyphean. Naturally it is unpaid. Ouch. Given the prevailing public sentiment on the strange-bedfellows relationship between government and ethics -- as in, what relationship? -- the task of policing the ethics of New York State's employees may seem as productive, and outmoded, as estimating angels dancing on a pinhead. Ludicrous. Especially when state employees can kiss their ethics violations goodbye simply by resigning or retiring. 
 Not a wonder that Paul L. Shechtman initially describes his ethics role by cataloging what it is not. And makes a joke of switching from his brawny office chair to a comfy recliner reminiscent of a psychiatrist's couch: the ethics job may not move him to tears, but explaining it is going to take a while. A partner at the Park Avenue firm of Stillman & Friedman, he is chairman of the state's Ethics Commission, a post into which he was sweet-talked by Gov. George E. Pataki in 1998 after twice begging off. 
 A former prosecutor now specializing in the red-hot business of white-collar defense -- the older of his two teenage daughters accuses him of ''going over to the dark side,'' while the younger admires his autograph access to celebrity miscreants like Lil' Kim, whose legal team he joined this week -- Mr. Shechtman constructs his sentences like honeycombs. Or mazes. 
 Blame the economics degrees from Swarthmore and Oxford University -- he played point guard on their basketball teams -- that preceded his graduation from Harvard Law.
 ''I've got a narrow mission in this ethics world, which is to say that although the public is right to have great concern about the influence of lobbying on politicians, the influence of money, the influence of insiders, and a legislature in Albany that is part-time and has law practices on the side, and right that these things probably need to be considered and reined in, happily or not, all of that is outside my purview,'' he says, out of words. And breath.
 What's inside the purview of Mr. Shechtman, 56, whose firm represents former State Senator Guy J. Velella, who pleaded guilty to a bribery-related charge? Regulating ethical behavior by state employees. The rub, as he calls it, is a 1995 Court of Appeals ruling that confines the commission's investigative clout to current employees. Yearly, since then, the agency, with support from the governor, has asked the Legislature to remove that stricture. Yearly, he says, the request is denied. He says 40 investigations collapsed in the past decade because employees, typically well-connected senior officials, evaded inquiries simply by quitting -- with reputations intact.
 THE Canal Corporation, whose plans to sell development rights along the Erie Canal raised ethical concerns, and Karen R. Hitchcock, the State University of New York-Albany president who resigned amid complaints of ties to a construction contract, are the most recent state employees to escape possible censure.
 ''The Ethics Commission does have teeth, and does sanction those who stay around; the problem is we're missing a tooth or a molar, and when we ask the Legislature to assist, they don't,'' he says, signaling his irritation with a wave of ink-stained hands that come close, in spots, to matching his blue tie. ''The result is that there is ethics enforcement against lower-level people while the higher level people walk away, and you can make the argument that that may be worse than no ethics enforcement at all.'' 
 But he refutes the notion that the commission is a defanged entity because of his connection to the governor, for whom he was director of criminal justice from 1995 to 1997.
 ''I work for the governor, I like the governor, I respect the governor, but he knows I wouldn't kill an investigation because it implicated one of his people, and I know the others on this commission would kill me if I tried,'' he says. (He is, although a Pataki fan, Mr. Pataki's worst polling place nightmare: a Democrat.) He says the time has come for the governor, who this month proposed legislation to tighten ethics laws, to ensure it happens.
 ''This is a year where he really has to say, 'Symbols are important, and this is a symbol of good government.' If this dies this year, then I think voters will be right to say, 'If you can't reform this, what can you do?'''
 Mr. Shechtman grew up in the Philadelphia suburbs; his father, a government contract lawyer, did not push him or his brother to enter the law, though both did. A pair of clerkships, one with Warren E. Burger, chief justice of the United States, and the other with Judge Louis H. Pollack of the United States District Court, steered him toward criminal law.
 He worked for the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, from 1987 to 1994, and from 1994 to 1995 was chief of the crime division under United States Attorney Mary Jo White: ''One of the reasons I loved being a prosecutor in New York City was that there were enough guilty people around so that you didn't have to investigate innocent ones.'' Mr. Shechtman, also a Columbia Law School professor, says he possesses limited courtroom razzle-dazzle.
 ''I'm not a good enough showman that if I don't believe in a client's innocence I'm going to be able to convince anybody else of it,'' says Mr. Shechtman, who lives in TriBeCa with his wife, Bonnie Yochelson, an art historian and author. 
 Obsessive about participation sports, he switched from basketball to tennis at age 30, and recently replaced tennis with golf: ''My daughter beat me,'' he says, ''so I quit.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: PAUL L. SHECHTMAN (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); BRIBERY (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



532 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Me and My Hybrid

BYLINE: By Oliver Sacks. 
Oliver Sacks is the author of ''The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat'' and ''Awakenings.''

 BODY:
DRILLING for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is not only an attack on what little remains of this country's wild places; it makes no sense in terms of numbers. We do not know how much oil lies beneath the refuge -- at best, it has been estimated, it will fuel our gas-hungry culture for only a few years -- but we can easily calculate what a few simple conservation methods would achieve. 
 Fuel cells and a hydrogen economy being still some way in the future, I recently traded in my Lexus 300 ES sedan for a six-cylinder Honda Accord hybrid. My new car performs as well or better than the previous one, but gives nearly double the mileage for a gallon of gas. Doing a rather average amount of driving in a year -- 20,000 or 30,000 miles -- I find that I am saving 500 to 1,000 gallons of gas. True, I had to pay a premium for the car (about $3,300 more than the equivalent gas-only model), and my trunk space is a bit reduced, to make room for the battery. But I will make up the extra cost in gas savings in a year or two, I have the convenience of filling my tank only every 500 miles and, more important, I can now drive while enjoying the feeling that I am being economical with fuel and adding half as many pollutants to the atmosphere. 
 There are some 200 million cars and light trucks on the road in the United States, and if even half of them saved as much fuel as I do now, the total savings would be huge: 50 billion or more gallons of gas a year. This is equivalent to 1.2 billion barrels of oil, about half the entire annual production of oil in the United States and a fifth of what the most reasonable estimates hold can be recovered in total from the Alaska refuge. 
 There are many ways to save energy, but few are as easy as this. We need to do a great deal more to encourage all kinds of conservation, but especially alternative-energy vehicles, which can contribute enormous oil savings and reduce pollution with no change in lifestyle. Yet the current federal tax incentive for them -- a $2,000 deduction this year, and $500 next year -- expires entirely by the end of 2006. A first step on the path to a rational energy policy is to reinstate this incentive and increase it. 
 Other countries have found more creative ways to entice buyers. In Britain, for example, clean vehicles can be exempted from the fee paid by other vehicles to enter congested areas of London during rush hours. Imagine if New York City had a free Green Lane on its bridges and tunnels. 
 I love the quietness of my hybrid in town, the way the main engine turns off whenever I come to a stop (and this is often in New York City traffic), and there is only the nearly silent electric motor ticking over. I love it when I climb a hill, or have to pass another car, and the electric motor kicks in to assist the gas engine, a bonus of power without any additional fuel demand. And, above all, I love it when, in the city or on the highway, the green ECO sign on the dashboard comes on, and the car is giving me better than 40 miles to the gallon. I know ECO stands for economy, but I like to think it stands for ecology too. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Tim Lane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); SEDANS (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); AIR POLLUTANTS (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); TAX LAW (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Electric Vehicles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Tax Deductions; Automobiles

PERSON: Oliver Sacks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) ALASKA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



533 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports Briefing; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 587 words

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:

FOOTBALL
Finn and Giants Agree to a Five-Year Contract
 Jim Finn, a free-agent fullback, has agreed to a five-year contract that will keep him with the Giants. 
 He was expected to sign Monday, once the deal is finalized by the team, the agent Alan Herman said yesterday. The Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon said the team would not comment until the contract is signed.
 ''There were better deals in terms of duration and economic terms, but Jim felt that New York was a good spot for him and he felt comfortable there,'' Herman said. ''He likes Tom Coughlin and his style of coaching.'' 
 Finn, 28, who is from Teaneck, N.J., and played at Penn, carried the ball just three times last season, but his blocking helped Tiki Barber run for 1,518 yards, a single-season team record. Finn also had 15 receptions.

HIGH SCHOOL HELPS OUT CLARETT -- Ohio State will not allow Maurice Clarett back to appear before N.F.L. scouts, but his former high school in Youngstown, Ohio, will. Clarett, a disappointment at the N.F.L. combine in February, will work out at Warren G. Harding High School next Thursday, his agent, Steve Feldman, said. Clarett, who set freshman rushing records at Ohio State in 2002, has changed his trainer and is doing less weightlifting and more cardiovascular work, Feldman said.

TENNIS
Clijsters Rolls to Victory at the Nasdaq-100 Open
 Unseeded but undaunted, Kim Clijsters needed just 46 minutes to win her first-round match yesterday at the Nasdaq-100 Open in Key Biscayne, Fla.
 Coming off her first tournament title in 13 months, Clijsters continued her comeback from a wrist injury by winning the first 11 games and defeating Sandra Kloesel, 6-0, 6-1.
 In men's play, the 6-foot-10 Ivo Karlovic lost to the 5-5 Olivier Rochus, 5-7, 7-6 (6), 7-6 (3). Karlovic, the tallest player on the Tour, lost despite hitting 30 aces. 
 Mardy Fish had 60 unforced errors but defeated Tomas Zib, 7-6 (2), 6-7 (3), 6-3; Donald Young, a 15-year-old wild card from Chicago, lost to Jean-Rene Lisnard, 6-4, 7-5; and Mark Philippoussis took a nasty tumble in the next-to-last game and was treated for a leg injury before he completed a 6-4, 6-2 victory over Christophe Rochus.

YACHT RACING
Champ Coutts Won't Compete in America's Cup
 Russell Coutts, the most dominant skipper in America's Cup history, will not try for a fourth consecutive title with any team in the 2007 regatta as part of a settlement with the Alinghi syndicate.
 Coutts was fired by the Swiss group last July after a falling out with the syndicate head Ernesto Bertarelli over management of the defense of the Cup in Valencia, Spain. The case between Coutts and Bertarelli, who teamed to sweep Team New Zealand in five races in 2003, had been before the review board of sailing's governing body.
 Alinghi said Coutts, 43, was fired for refusal to carry out his duties. After Alinghi's victory off Auckland, New Zealand, Coutts had contract differences and refused to sail in exhibition regattas against United States-based BMW Oracle Racing in San Francisco and Newport, R.I.

FIGURE SKATING
Challenge to the I.S.U. Leads to a Ban of Six
 Six former judges and officials of the International Skating Union have been banned by the organization for trying to set up a rival body to run the sport two years ago, known as the World Skating Federation.
 Declared ineligible yesterday by the I.S.U. were the Americans Ronald Pfenning and Jon Jackson, Sally Anne Stapleford of Britain, Britta Lindgren of Sweden, Judith Furst-Tombor of Hungary and Jan Garden of Canada. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BOAT RACING (86%); SPORTS INJURIES (79%); TENNIS (74%); SPORTS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); WEIGHTLIFTING (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); BOATING & RAFTING (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



534 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Higher Oil Prices Wipe Out Earlier Gains in Markets

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks were little changed for a second day yesterday as a slump set off by higher oil prices wiped out gains that followed increased earnings forecasts from General Electric and Northrop Grumman. 
 ''The market lost a little bit of its wind'' as oil rose, said Evan Olsen, head trader at Stephens Inc. in Little Rock, Ark. ''It's been a pretty tough week with inflation jitters.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.11 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,171.42. It rose as much as 0.6 percent earlier in the day. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 13.15 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,442.87. 
 A rally in Kmart Holding, whose takeover of Sears, Roebuck received shareholders' approval, lifted the Nasdaq composite index, which gained 0.84 points, to 1,991.06. 
 The benchmark indexes peaked at midday before giving up most of their gains in the final two hours of trading as oil prices closed near the day's high. Crude oil for May delivery rose 1.9 percent, to $54.84 a barrel, in New York. Some investors were also reluctant to hold large positions before the three-day weekend. Markets in the United States are closed today for Good Friday. 
 Reports this week on inflation, and the Federal Reserve's statement that pricing pressures have ''picked up in recent months,'' spurred concern that the central bank may step up the pace of interest rate increases. The Fed made the seventh quarter-point increase in its benchmark rate since June, bringing it to 2.75 percent, and restated a plan to lift rates at a ''measured'' pace. 
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 declined 1.5 percent, the Dow average fell 1.8 percent and the Nasdaq slipped 0.8 percent. The indexes had their third consecutive week of losses. 
 Three stocks advanced for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.36 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, the slowest trading since Feb. 14. 
 G.E. advanced 23 cents, to $35.73. The company said it expected first-quarter earnings of 37 cents to 38 cents a share, compared with a previous forecast of 36 cents to 37 cents. G.E. cited ''solid growth'' and the $2.6 billion sale of a stake in its life and mortgage insurance unit. 
 Northrop, the military contractor, gained 53 cents, to $53.31. The company said 2005 profit would be $3.60 to $3.75 a share, beating its previous forecast of $3.45 to $3.60, because of stronger demand for missile defense systems and radars for combat aircraft. 
 Kmart shares gained $7.69, to $132.52, after its shareholders approved the $12.3 billion acquisition of Sears in a bid to stem declining sales and fend off Wal-Mart Stores. The combined company, called Sears Holding, will lay off an unspecified number of employees. 
 Sears had the worst performance in the S.&P. 500, tumbling $6.76, or 12 percent, to $50.04. The shares lost value because those who bought the stock yesterday will not get Kmart shares as part of the deal. 
 Yum Brands, operator of the Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and KFC restaurant chains, climbed $1.72, to $52.32. The company lifted its first-quarter earnings forecast to as much as 52 cents a share, helped by sales gains for KFC in China. The average analyst estimate in a Thomson survey was 51 cents a share. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to a price of 95 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.6 percent, from 4.59 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since December.30-year: 5.51%15-year: 5.06%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STEPHENS INC (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); NOC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



535 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Fraying of a Latin Textile Industry

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR 

 BODY:
Mondays are hiring days at the hulking garment factories that in the last 15 years helped lift El Salvador up from war and bring some 90,000 families out of extreme poverty. By 7 a.m., hundreds of women like Gloria Campos are lined up, hoping to get a tiny piece of prosperity.
 But shifting global trade rules threaten to reverse El Salvador's industrial revolution. Employment in the garment industry, until recently a source of growth, declined in 2004 for the first time in a decade.
 The government puts the number of jobs lost at nearly 6,000. Managers of assembly plants said the number was almost twice as high. Thousands more jobs will be lost this year, they predicted, threatening to drive up El Salvador's largest export to the United States: its people. 
 Trouble in the garment industry, brewing for years, has heightened here and in other struggling parts of Central America, as an end to global textile quotas at the beginning of the year spreads textile and clothes manufacturing to other parts of the developing world, particularly China. 
 But as close and nimble neighbors of the United States, El Salvador's exporters seemed to think that buyers in the United States would keep their workers busy in order to have a fast and easy alternative to Asia. And free trade agreements promised to buffer the region from outside economic forces. 
 That thinking comforted exporters throughout Central America, where an estimated 1,000 textile and apparel factories have employed some 500,000 people. But now, with quotas ended, merchants in the United States and Europe buy where it is cheapest. And here, as in Mexico, the trade agreements have led to more disappointment than promise.
 As the biggest-name clothing brands hunt for bargains halfway around the world, the factories that became the engine of Central America's formal economy are starting to sputter.
 In the first two months of this year, authorities said, 18 plants in Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic closed; some 10,000 jobs were lost. 
 Nicaragua, with Central America's worst poverty and lowest wages, is the only country that has had an expansion in its young garment industry. Textile powerhouses like Guatemala and Honduras, the third-largest clothing exporter to the United States after China and Mexico, have managed to maintain a rough stability. But industry representatives said they expected orders to dry up at many factories by summer. 
 So far, the ending of the quota system -- a 1974 pact known formally as the Multi-Fiber Agreement -- has hit hardest in El Salvador. Part of the reason, industry experts said, was that four years ago, this country adopted the dollar as its official currency, giving it no leeway from a devaluation to keep exports competitive. As a result, it has the highest labor and transportation costs in the region.
 Hiring days put a human face on this grim economics. On a recent Monday, long employment lines were filled mostly with mothers in tattered skirts and plastic sandals who had not finished grade school. 
 These were not new applicants, but seamstresses with years of experience -- women who spoke as if they had been caught up in some storm that no one told them was coming. For the last seven years, Ms. Campos, a 42-year-old mother of three, had worked in the maquiladoras -- the local term for the assembly plants -- and the $5 she earned each day was her family's only income.
 Then in December 2003, her employers skipped town without notice. They told her and the 400 other workers that they were shutting down the factory for the Christmas holiday. The factory never reopened, and the company left without paying a penny in severance.
 She quickly found work at another garment-making operation. That one closed in October 2004. Ms. Campos has been standing in lines every Monday. 
 ''I come every week with a lot of hope, '' she said, ''and every week I go home feeling sad. If I don't find a job soon, I don't know how I am going to survive.''
 El Salvador's economy minister, Yolanda Mayora de Gavidia, said in an interview that the nation's garment industry shrank 3 percent last year as three major and five smaller apparel manufacturers shut down operations.
 ''Most factories are going to go,'' Mrs. Gavidia said. ''We know we are going to be affected by China.''
 It is the same sobering story being told farther away, in places like Mongolia, Cambodia and southern Africa. But in Central America, a two-day drive from Texas, the crisis in the apparel industry will almost certainly ripple up the continent to the United States.
 With garment factories moving rapidly out of Mexico, Central America has become the most important customer for mills in the United States that produce fabric. More than 70 percent of the garments made in Central America are produced from American fabric and yarn.
 ''If we go belly up, the United States will go belly up,'' said Francisco Escobar Thompson, an exporter who closed one of his four plants last year and faces the closing of another in 2005.
 And in this poor region, rising unemployment could mean a lot more empty bellies and surging waves of migrants. With farming in El Salvador having sharply declined in the last decade and agriculture a dying sector of the economy, the maquiladoras provide more than half the jobs in El Salvador's formal economy. More than 40 percent of the population is unemployed or underemployed, and an estimated 100,000 people migrate to the United States each year.
 Mrs. Gavidia tried to offer a little hope, saying that some of the garment factories might survive if they were able to upgrade to produce fashion apparel, which relies on advanced technology, closer communication with clients and fast delivery.
 ''We cannot compete with China on low wages,'' she said, ''and we don't want to. But our proximity to the United States gives us an advantage in special niches, where clients need high quality and fast turnaround.''
 In the last year, Mr. Escobar, whose company assembles undergarments and moisture-resistant outerwear, has turned around two of his factories. They have begun ''full-package manufacturing,'' he said, meaning that the plants design the patterns, select fabrics, assemble the garments and ship direct to chain stores.
 If producing garments from design to delivery took 100 steps, his factories used to complete the last 20. Now, he said, they can handle as many as 80.
 ''It's hard to tell from day to day,'' he said, ''because we never know what China is going to do. Things look good today. But I don't know what to expect a few months from now.''
 He and other factory owners have staked the future of their businesses on the proposed Central American Free Trade Agreement, which is to include Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. The agreement, which aims to give Central American exports permanent duty-free access to the United States market, has ignited angry protests from workers who fear that freer trade will open the door to harsh competition from the United States.
 [In Guatemala, one person was killed in mid-March in clashes between police officers and protesters who set up roadblocks along main highways.]
 The agreement has already won approval from Guatemala and Honduras. Opponents across the region say that their governments have allowed very little public debate about the accord. Conservative legislators in El Salvador approved it in a predawn session in December.
 In Washington, the Senate is expected to hold hearings on the trade agreement after Easter, and the Bush administration hopes to have the measure approved before the end of May. But it faces a tough fight from the United States textile industry and from labor unions worried about abusive practices in Central American factories.
 Lloyd Wood of the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition said that loopholes in the agreement and poor enforcement of customs laws would allow China to use Central America as a back door into the United States. Supporters respond that with the volume of China's trade, it does not need back doors.
 Dina Rivera, 34, a Salvadoran mother of three, can already feel the pressure. She said she began working in the maquiladoras eight years ago because she thought that learning a trade would give her job security, something almost unheard of among Central America's poor. Before that, she washed clothes and took care of rich people's babies.
 Her wages were not enough to save money for long-term plans, Ms. Rivera said. But at least she could count on feeding her family from day to day and sending her children to school.
 Now, she simply feels counted out.
 ''The rich can go to China,'' she said. ''I want to go, too.''

Made Elsewhere
 Articles in this series are periodically examining changes in the global clothing business. Previous articles are available at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A garment worker in San Salvador, Maria Daisy Hernandez, earns a little more than $5 a day. She has worked at such assembly plants since 1990. (Photo by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (92%); TEXTILES (92%); TEXTILE MFG (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); US DOLLAR (62%); DEVALUATION (60%) Textiles; Surveys and Series; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Unemployment; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Textiles

PERSON: Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: EL SALVADOR (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); HONDURAS (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) El Salvador ; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



536 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: New Vaccine Said to Offer Hope Against Deadly Bacterium

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
A new vaccine tested in West Africa could save the lives of thousands of poor rural children who die each year from bacterial infections, a team of scientists reported yesterday. 
 The vaccine is a strengthened version of Prevnar, which has been given widely to American infants since 2000 and prevents rare but serious infections with the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium.
 In the third world, the same germ is a major killer, and the new vaccine, tested in Gambia, ''exceeded our expectations,'' said Dr. Orin Levine, head of the pneumonia vaccine program at the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which backed the trial. 
 The results are to be published today in The Lancet, a British medical publication. 
 ''No one expected so big a reduction in pneumonia, hospitalization and mortality,'' Dr. Levine said. ''Most people don't know it, but pneumococcal disease kills more people every year than malaria. In this trial, we prevented one death for every 200 children we vaccinated. That's a whopping public-health contribution.''
 Susan McKinney, an immunization expert at the United States Agency for International Development, which spends hundreds of millions of dollars on vaccines for poor countries, said her agency was ''delighted'' with the trial. ''The impact this vaccine could have in developing countries is fantastic,'' she said. 
 How cheaply it can be made remains to be seen, but experts were optimistic yesterday that poor countries would eventually get regular supplies.
 Lisa Jacobs, a spokeswoman for the alliance, known as GAVI, said: ''This is exactly the kind of opportunity GAVI is looking for. I can't say definitely that GAVI will fund this -- the board has to make that decision. But given that this data is so promising, we'll definitely look at this.''
 The alliance was created in 2000 as a partnership of donor governments, private foundations, the World Health Organization and drug companies to make vaccines broadly available at low cost. It has received $1.5 billion from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, $300 million from the United States and hundreds of millions more from other donors.
 In the United States, Prevnar, made by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals of Collegeville, Pa., costs about $250 for a course of four shots -- far more than poor countries can afford or donors will pay.
 Natalie deVane, a Wyeth spokeswoman, said the company was negotiating a price for standard Prevnar with the Gambian government and would work with GAVI in the future on the strengthened vaccine.
 It is common, several experts said, for vaccine makers to sell at high prices in the West to recoup their research costs, then offer the products at bargain prices in poor countries.
 For example, said Dr. Levine, a professor of international health at Johns Hopkins University Medical school, a vaccine used in poor countries that protects against diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, hepatitis B and haemophilus influenza B in one shot is purchased by the Global Alliance for $3.65 a dose, a fraction of what similar shots cost in the West.
 The vaccine tested in Gambia, made up especially by Wyeth for the trial, had antigens against nine strains of the bacterium. Prevnar has antigens against seven strains. Ms. deVane said Wyeth was now making one with antigens against 13 strains. 
 It is being tested for safety and for its ability to provoke an immune response, but presumably will not require another $30 million clinical trial in 17,000 children, like the one in Gambia.
 Dr. Paul A. Offit, chief of infectious diseases at Children's Hospital in Philadelphia, who was not connected to the study, said the vaccine's 77 percent success rate at preventing diseases caused by the type of bacteria in the vaccine was ''excellent.''
 There are 90 strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae, he said, but the majority of infections are caused by a few strains. Prevnar was approved in the United States after it was tested on 38,000 children in northern California.
 But vaccines that work in the West often do not work in poor countries with open sewers, tropical heat and urban crowding. In Africa, for example, it can take 10 doses of polio vaccine to achieve the same immunity that three doses will give in the United States because there are so many similar viruses in the African environment that can attach themselves to the same cell receptors as the vaccine.
 The chief author of the study, Dr. Felicity Cutts, a professor of epidemiology at Britain's Medical Research Council, said the fact that the vaccine had cut deaths among Gambian children by 16 percent was ''a nice and unexpected result.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a large clinical trial that found the vaccine Prevnar to be effective against deadly bacterial infections among children in West Africa misstated an affiliation for Dr. Orin Levine, executive director of the pneumonia vaccine program at the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization. He is a professor of international health at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, not the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (96%); BACTERIA (96%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PNEUMONIA (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MALARIA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); BIOLOGICS MFG (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Medicine and Health; Vaccination and Immunization; Bacteria; Third World and Developing Countries; Prevnar (Vaccine); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%) Wyeth (Co); Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); GAMBIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



537 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Worries That Real Estate Will Go Way of Dot-Coms
The parallels between the way that real estate-crazed Americans are behaving today and the way they once did toward Internet stocks are raising alarms among many economists -- even those who acknowledge that there are important differences between homes and stocks that lessen the odds of another meltdown.
 Perhaps the most troubling similarity, analysts say, is the claim that the rules of investing have somehow changed. [Page A1.]

New home sales rose by the most in four years and prices jumped to a record in February, the Commerce Department reported. [C2.]

Court Upholds Soros Conviction
A French appeals court upheld the conviction of George Soros, left, the former fund manager, on insider trading charges, rejecting his argument that his investment in a French bank in 1988 was not based on confidential information. Mr. Soros, 74, now retired from money management but active as a philanthropist and author, was ordered to pay a fine of 2.2 million euros, or $2.9 million. [C4.]

In Japan, Steps to Thwart Takeover
An affiliate of Softbank of Japan has emerged as the biggest shareholder in the Fuji Television Network in a move apparently intended to fend off a possible takeover by Livedoor, an Internet start-up. [C4.]

Adelphia Offers to Settle Claims
Adelphia Communications said that it had offered to pay the government $725 million to settle claims related to a federal fraud investigation. [C3.]

Battle Over Radio Tags Broadens
A skirmish over patents between two suppliers of gear that uses radio signals instead of bar codes to identify commercial goods expanded into a much broader legal battle. [C3.]

Oil Prices Rise After Explosion
A day after crude prices had their largest decline of the year, oil futures bounced back as an explosion at a refinery in Texas highlighted the limits of the industry's supplies. [C7.]

Stocks were little changed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.11 points, to 1,171.42. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 13.15 points, to 10,442.87. The Nasdaq composite index, gained 0.84 point, to 1,991.06. [C7.]

Consumers Aware of Drug Woes
Consumers appear to have taken note of the major troubles among prescription drug makers, according to a survey. Advertising. [C6.]

States See Big Medicare Burden
As states do the arithmetic on the new Medicare law, many find that they will lose money, because they will have to give back most of the savings to the federal government. [A12.]

G.E. Raises Quarterly Forecast
The General Electric Company raised its forecast for first-quarter earnings by a penny a share, citing strength across its businesses and proceeds from the sale of 80.5 million shares of Genworth Financial. G.E. continues to benefit from improvements in manufacturing demand, a rebounding commercial aviation market and earnings gains at its media and health care units. [C7.]

ConAgra Foods to Restate Results
ConAgra Foods said that it would restate its financial results for 2004 and the first half of fiscal 2005 because of income tax errors that could cost it up to $200 million. [C13.]

$3.2 Billion in Penalties in Tax Case
The Internal Revenue Service said that it had collected more than $3.2 billion in taxes and penalties from those who participated in a tax shelter known as Son of Boss. [C13.]

Financial Markets Closed
Financial markets in the United States and many other countries will be closed today in observance of Good Friday.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,442.87 down 13.15Nasdaq composite -- 1,991.06 up 0.8410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.60% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2934 down 0.0038The dollar -- 106.33 yen up 0.32Graph tracks the daily closing price of General Electric shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); STARTUPS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); FUTURES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); CRIMINAL FINES (74%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (61%); FUJI MEDIA HOLDINGS INC (55%); TIME WARNER INC (54%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (61%); GEC (LSE) (61%); GE (SWX) (61%); GE (NYSE) (61%); 4676 (TSE) (55%); TWX (NYSE) (54%); GNW (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



538 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: What Happens Once the Oil Runs Out?

BYLINE: By Kenneth S. Deffeyes. 
Kenneth S. Deffeyes, a professor emeritus of geology at Princeton, is the author of ''Beyond Oil: The View from Hubbert's Peak.''

DATELINE: Princeton, N.J. 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH'S hopes for the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge came one step closer to reality last week. While Congress must still pass a law to allow drilling in the refuge, the Senate voted to include oil revenues from such drilling in the budget, making eventual approval of the president's plan more likely.
 Yet the debate over drilling in the Arctic refuge has been oddly beside the point. In fact, it may be distracting us from a far more important problem: a looming world oil shortage. 
 The environmental argument over drilling in the refuge has often been portrayed as ''tree huggers'' versus ''dirty drillers'' (although, as a matter of fact, the north coastal plain of Alaska happens to have no trees to hug). Even as we concede that this is an oversimplification, we should also ask how a successful drilling operation would affect American oil production. 
 The United States Geological Survey has estimated that the Arctic oil field is likely to be at least half the size of the Prudhoe Bay oil field, almost 100 miles to the west. Opening that oil field was like hitting a grand slam: Prudhoe Bay, which has already produced more than 13 billion barrels, is the biggest American oil field. (I was once at a party with a bunch of geologists from Mobil Oil when an argument broke out: who discovered Prudhoe Bay? Everybody in the room except me claimed to have done so.)
 Unfortunately, you don't hit a grand slam in every at-bat. The geological survey estimates that the Arctic refuge could produce at least half as much oil as Prudhoe Bay. It is also possible, however, that the refuge could produce no oil at all -- it often happens in the oil industry. At the other extreme, the upper range of the geological survey's estimate soars to 16 billion barrels. Although the geologists at the survey are widely respected, the upper ranges of their petroleum estimates for the refuge have drawn criticism, sometimes expressed as giggles, from other petroleum geologists. 
 Despite its size, Prudhoe Bay was not big enough to reverse the decline of American oil production. The greatest year of United States production was 1970. Prudhoe Bay started producing oil in 1977, but never enough to raise American production above the level of 1970. The Arctic refuge will probably have an even smaller effect. Every little bit helps, but even the most successful drilling project at the Arctic refuge would be only a little bit.
 But if the question of whether to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is the wrong one, what's the right one? In 1997 and 1998, a few petroleum geologists began examining world oil production using the methods that M. King Hubbert used in predicting in 1956 that United States oil production would peak during the early 1970's. These geologists indicated that world oil output would reach its apex in this decade -- some 30 to 40 years after the peak in American oil production. Almost no one paid attention.
 I used to work with Mr. Hubbert at Shell Oil, and my own independent research places the peak of world oil production late this year or early in 2006. Even a prompt and successful drilling operation in the Arctic refuge would not start pumping oil into the pipeline before 2008 or 2009.
 A permanent drop in world oil production will have serious consequences. In addition to the economic blow, there will be the psychological effect of accepting that there are limits to an important energy resource. What can we do? More efficient diesel automobiles, and greater reliance on wind and nuclear power, are well-engineered solutions that are available right now. Conservation, although costly in most cases, will have the largest impact. The United States also has a 300-year supply of coal, and methods for using coal without adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere are being developed.
 After world oil production starts to decline, a small group of geologists could gather in my living room and all claim to have discovered the peak. ''We told you so,'' we could say. But that isn't the point. The controversy over the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a side issue. The problem we need to face is the impending world oil shortage.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Tim Lane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); APPROVALS (72%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shortages; Conservation of Resources

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) Kenneth S Deffeyes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ARCTIC (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



539 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: The Era Of Exploitation

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Congress is in recess and the press has gone berserk over the Terri Schiavo case. So very little attention is being paid to pending budget proposals that are scandalously unfair, but that pretty accurately reflect the kind of country the U.S. has become.
 President Bush believes in an ''ownership'' society, which means that except for the wealthy, you're on your own. The president's budget would cut funding for Medicaid, food stamps, education, transportation, health care for veterans, law enforcement, medical research and safety inspections for food and drugs. And, of course, it contains big new tax cuts for the wealthy. 
 These are the new American priorities. Republicans will tell you they were ratified in the last presidential election. We may be locked in a long and costly war, and federal deficits may be spiraling toward the moon, but the era of shared sacrifices is over. This is the era of entrenched exploitation. All sacrifices will be made by working people and the poor, and the vast bulk of the benefits will accrue to the rich.
 F.D.R. would have stared slack-jawed at this madness. Even his grand Social Security edifice is under assault by the vandals of the G.O.P.
 While the press and the public are distracted by one sensational news story after another -- Terri Schiavo, Michael Jackson, steroids in baseball, etc. -- the president and his party have continued their extraordinary campaign to undermine the programs that were designed to fend off destitution and provide a reasonable foundation of economic security for those not blessed with great wealth.
 President Bush has proposed more than $200 billion worth of cuts in domestic discretionary programs over the next five years, and cuts of $26 billion in entitlement programs. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which analyzed the president's proposal, said:
 ''Figures in the budget show that child-care assistance would be ended for 300,000 low-income children by 2009. The food stamp cut would terminate food stamp aid for approximately 300,000 low-income people, most of whom are low-income working families with children. Reduced Medicaid funding most certainly would cause many states to cut their Medicaid programs, increasing the ranks of the uninsured.''
 Education funding would be cut beginning next year, and the cuts would grow larger in succeeding years. Food assistance for pregnant women, infants and children would be cut. Funding for H.I.V. and AIDS treatment would be cut by more than half a billion dollars over five years. Support for environmental protection programs would be sharply curtailed. And so on.
 Conservatives insist the cuts are necessary to get the roaring federal budget deficit under control. But they have trouble keeping a straight face when they tell that story. Laden with tax cuts, the president's proposal will result in an increase, not a decrease, in the deficit. Shared sacrifice is anathema to the big-money crowd.
 The House has passed a budget that is similar to the president's, except it contains even deeper cuts in programs that affect the poor. In the Senate, a handful of Republicans balked at the cuts proposed for Medicaid. Casting their votes with the Democrats, they were able to eliminate the cuts from the Senate budget proposal. The Senate also added $5.4 billion in education funding for 2006.
 All the budgets contain more than $100 billion in tax cuts over the next five years, which makes a mockery of the G.O.P.'s budget-balancing rhetoric. When Congress returns from its Easter recess, the Republican leadership will try to reconcile the differences in the various proposals. Whatever happens will be bad news for ordinary Americans. Big cuts are coming.
 The advances in areas like education, antipoverty programs, health services, environmental protection and food safety were achieved after struggles that, in some cases, took many decades. To slide backward now (hurting millions of people in the process) because of a desire to siphon funds from those programs and hand them over as tax cuts to the wealthiest members of our society, is obscene.
 This is not a huge national story. It's just the way things are. It was Herbert Hoover who said: ''You know, the only trouble with capitalism is capitalists. They're too damn greedy.''

Paul Krugman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MEDICAID (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); TAX LAW (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); STEROIDS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FAMILY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); INSPECTIONS (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); CHILD CARE (62%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



540 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Higher Costs Could Upset Trash Plan Mayor Favors

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
For three years, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has struggled to find a way to get rid of the city's trash that is both environmentally friendly and fair to all boroughs. 
 He came up with a plan that he thought solved those problems. But now there is a new one: the cost. 
 Under the mayor's plan, the city will have to pay about $500 million more over the next two decades than it would if it stuck with its current system over the same time span, according to calculations drawn from a report by a consultant for the city. And while virtually no one is arguing for leaving the existing approach in place, the new cost estimates may reshape the debate over a blueprint for removing the city's garbage that is already provoking criticism. 
 Most of all, the numbers promise to make a politically charged topic even more political as skeptics expand their critiques to include questions about the cost of the plan as well as its impact on certain neighborhoods. 
 The city expects to pay $105 to $115 on average per ton under the new plan, up from the $75 it pays now, according to the documents, which were given to The New York Times by a city official involved with the cost analysis who believes that the mayor is overstating the advantages of his plan.
 ''It's not at all clear what advantages we are getting from this plan for the added cost,'' said the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller. ''There are problems with the mayor's plan, but now it's not even clear we are getting enough bang for the buck.'' 
 The Council, which must approve the mayor's solid-waste plan before it takes effect, is to hold hearings on Wednesday to discuss the costs. 
 Over the past several months, Mr. Miller, a Democrat who hopes to unseat Mr. Bloomberg, has sparred with the mayor, who wants to reopen a trash-transfer station on East 91st Street in Manhattan, in Mr. Miller's district.
 Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said the cost of the existing system is increasing exponentially. ''The new solid-waste management plan treats all boroughs equitably, and removes the city's waste in an environmentally benign and economically viable manner,'' he said.
 Sanitation experts and city officials said they were not surprised by the higher cost estimates, because the new system will add steps to the trash-hauling process. Rather than being placed in trucks and taken straight to a landfill or incinerator, as it is now, most of the trash would be compacted into special containers, put on barges and shipped to another location, and then put on a train or truck and taken to its final destination.
 But skeptics say the mayor should look for cheaper ways to achieve his sanitation goals.
 ''Everyone agrees that it's a good thing to get the 100,000 polluting and traffic-clogging trucks off the road and to close the nightmarish transfer stations that disproportionately burden certain neighborhoods in the city,'' said Michael E. McMahon, chairman of the City Council's Sanitation Committee. ''But the sticker shock here may force the mayor to reconsider options that he has taken off the table.''
 Since the huge Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island closed nearly four years ago, Mr. Bloomberg has had a hard time finding ways to control the rising cost of getting rid of residential trash and to break the city's dependence on the privately operated transfer stations and out-of-state haulers that are used to move the trash outside New York. 
 In October, the Bloomberg administration took a step toward those goals by reopening four city-owned marine transfer stations. The mayor also said he would lock haulers into less costly 20-year contracts, rather than the five-year agreements that are currently the norm.
 Under the plan, the city would depend more on barges and trains than on trucks to move trash out of state, thereby decreasing the traffic and pollution that currently burden areas like the South Bronx and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which have a disproportionate number of residential and commercial transfer stations.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who inherited the city's waste-management problems from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- who closed the Fresh Kills landfill in 2001 without any viable plan for dealing with the city's waste -- has struggled to set a firm price for various parts of his plan. 
 In July 2002, Mr. Bloomberg announced, with much fanfare, his plan to reopen eight marine transfer stations, estimating that it would cost $240 million and take two years to complete the move. A little over a year later, the mayor revised his estimate, explaining that the stations required much more construction work than he had thought to make them operational. The new estimate was $450 million and six years. Last October, the numbers changed again, when the mayor said it would cost close to $400 million to open just four of the transfer stations. 
 ''We got double the price for half the stations,'' said Councilman McMahon. ''This plan just keeps getting costlier every time we look at it.''
 The price of reopening the transfer stations is now believed to be decided. The disposal costs, however, which include the price of moving the trash from the transfer stations to landfills and incinerators outside the state, are still being completed. 
 Mark A. Izeman, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group, cautioned against losing sight of benefits of the plan that are difficult to quantify, like the public-health repercussions of getting trucks off the road. He said that reducing the 3 million vehicle miles traveled by long-haul trucks each year in the five boroughs and eliminating the highly polluting 18-wheeler trucks that currently take most residential trash out of the city would help lower the stress on the city's health care system.
 ''These new numbers are also further evidence that recycling is a less expensive alternative to exporting the city's waste,'' Mr. Izeman said. Under the new long-term recycling contract the city is expected to sign in the next several months, the cost of processing glass, plastic and metal recyclables will start at roughly $48 a ton and decline in the future, while the average cost of exporting a ton of rubbish will rise from about $110 in the next few years to more than $160 within 20. 
 Councilman McMahon said the mayor should reconsider cheaper options, like sending more of Manhattan's trash to an incinerator in Newark that converts waste to energy. The city could also save money by sending more trash to the West 59th Street marine transfer station instead of reopening the station on 91st Street, he said.
 Though placing a new waste-to-energy incinerator within New York City would be politically challenging, some sanitation experts and city officials have said that doing so could be another cost-saving alternative to sending the trash to out-of-state landfills. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



541 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak Board Wary of Bush's Overhaul Plan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24 

 BODY:
The chairman of Amtrak, David M. Laney, has signaled for the first time that the independent board that runs the railroad objects to significant parts of President Bush's plans to overhaul the passenger rail system, especially the idea to reorganize the company through bankruptcy. But the board Mr. Laney heads has still not agreed on its own proposal. 
 Mr. Bush has called for the elimination of federal aid in six months, which would kill the railroad unless it is restructured. Under his plan, if Amtrak can be reorganized, most subsidies would be paid by states, an idea that many state officials reject. 
 Mr. Bush has proposed turning over the tracks from Washington to Boston to a new entity, made up by the states, and letting competitors offer train service around the country. The administration has also said that if Amtrak is forced into bankruptcy, ''ultimately a more rational passenger system would emerge.''
 But Mr. Laney, a Bush appointee and campaign contributor, said in a telephone interview on Monday that while he shared Mr. Bush's determination to overhaul the passenger railroad, the administration's suggestion that the tracks from Washington to Boston -- the Northeast Corridor -- be turned over to a compact of states was ''not the position of the board,'' with the exception of one of its four members, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta.
 Mr. Laney also indicated that the board, for the first time made up entirely of Bush appointees, wanted to avoid bankruptcy, saying that it ''remains on the table as a last resort'' but that ''I don't think it's a resort anybody wants to default to.''
 Still, as Congress steps up its work on the budget, the solution is far from clear. The board has not put forward its own proposal, which has stalled work in Congress to renew the railroad's subsidy. Moody's, the debt rating service, has put Amtrak on a ''watch list,'' contemplating a downgrading of its credit rating, and is likely to lower the rating ''multiple notches'' if the federal budget is adopted as proposed. 
 The states, meanwhile, have started making clear that with Amtrak saying it needs $2.5 billion over the next five years to make upgrades on the Northeast Corridor -- Amtrak's major asset -- they do not want to bear the costs. 
 ''I see no evidence even the Bush administration believes that the change in the structure changes the economics,'' said Roy Kienitz, deputy chief of staff to Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat. ''They just want someone else to be left holding the bag at end of the day.''
 In New York, where the governor, George E. Pataki, is a Republican, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Transportation, Jennifer Post, said, ''We believe Amtrak's operations need to be reformed,'' adding, ''We continue to be interested in learning more about the specifics of the plan, and the availability of federal funding to help finance it.''
 Ms. Post continued, ''New Yorkers already pay enough to support Amtrak's operation.'' 
 In Connecticut, H. James Boice, the chief of the policy and planning bureau of the State Department of Transportation, pointed out that commuter lines and Amtrak had differing needs. Connecticut already owns the part of the Northeast Corridor from New Haven to the state line at Greenwich. The majority of trains by far belong to Metro-North, the commuter railroad, and the state wants to keep the line in shape to handle traffic at those trains' top speed, 90 miles an hour, he said, but Amtrak wants 125 miles an hour. 
 ''There's a big incremental cost to things like that,'' Mr. Boice said. Of the idea that states take over the corridor, he said, ''We're evaluating it, but on first blush it has problems.''
 New Jersey's commissioner of transportation, Jack Lettiere, said that New Jersey Transit ran 10 times as many trains as Amtrak on the part of the corridor in his state, and that he would like one aspect of ownership: more control of the tracks. The states could work out a cost-sharing arrangement, Mr. Lettiere said, but ''only after the federal government put the corridor back into a state of good repair.'' 
 In Boston, Transportation Secretary Mineta appeared at a news conference on Wednesday with the Massachusetts governor, Mitt Romney, and promised to submit legislation when Congress returns in April.
 ''If we continue down this current track, there is no hope for recovery,'' Mr. Mineta said. He said the federal government would continue to invest in the Northeast Corridor. ''But instead of handing the taxpayers' money to a company in Washington, D.C.,'' he said, ''we will partner with states so that investments are made in repairing, rebuilding and improving the nation's networks of tracks, tunnels, bridges, and stations.'' He said Amtrak had neglected the corridor.
 Amtrak said it planned to spend billions of dollars for improvements; as a practical matter, railroad officials say, the money would have to come from government.
 Mr. Laney, in the telephone interview, said that eventually more money would be needed from somewhere. ''What we've got now is begging annually for just enough to survive,'' he said, adding that ''this is not the way to run a business, certainly not the way to run a railroad.'' 
 Amtrak management, led by David Gunn, its president, has said that separating the track owner from the train operator on such a busy stretch of rail would simply not work. 
 Another issue waiting for board action is the fate of long-distance trains, which run on tracks owned by the freight railroads and which do not meet their operating costs. Trains in the Northeast do meet their operating costs but do not generate money for track maintenance. While the long-distance trains lose money, they are essential for generating support in Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); CREDIT BUREAUS (66%) Railroads; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Bankruptcies; States (US); Bankruptcies; Railroads

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ED RENDELL (58%) Matthew L Wald; George W (Pres) Bush; David M Laney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Boston (Mass); Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



542 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Consider Slowing Benefits Growth for Most

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Can ''progressive indexation'' help sell President Bush's plan to overhaul Social Security?
 Though he has been loath to propose specific measures to reduce future benefits, Mr. Bush and other officials are gingerly promoting the idea as a way to cut costs and still protect low-income retirees.
 Supporters of ''progressive indexation'' say it could achieve several goals: it would eliminate a big part of Social Security's long-running financial gap; it would guarantee benefits at current levels and allow them to rise in real terms for people at the bottom of the income ladder. 
 Progressive indexation involves reducing the growth in benefits for people with middle and higher incomes, but letting the benefits keep rising for low-income retirees in future generations.
 ''The president likes it, because it is more favorable to lower-income people than to higher-income people,'' Allan Hubbard, director of Mr. Bush's National Economic Council, said in an interview this week.
 Many Democrats are skeptical. One problem, opponents say, is that middle-income and affluent people would feel increasingly short-changed as their benefits fell well behind their payroll taxes.
 Originally proposed by Robert Pozen, an investment executive who was on President Bush's advisory commission on Social Security in 2001, ''progressive indexation'' is a softer version of a similar idea that White House officials had discussed earlier this year.
 The original idea was to change the formula for calculating a person's initial retirement, from a formula based on the rise in wages to a formula based on the rise in prices.
 In terms of purchasing power, benefits would not decline. But because wages tend to rise faster than prices do, analysts estimate that benefits would fall far behind increases in the standard of living.
 Benefits promised to people who retire in 50 years would be about half as large as benefits promised under current law. Instead of replacing about 40 percent of pre-retirement income for a median-income worker, as is the case today, Social Security benefits would replace only 21.5 percent of earnings for a person who retired in 2065, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 Mr. Pozen's idea of ''progressive indexation'' would soften the change by keeping the current formula for people whose earnings fall in the bottom 30 percent. 
 Mr. Pozen coupled his plan for benefit cuts with one that would let people divert about one-sixth of their payroll taxes to personal retirement accounts.
 Stephen Goss, chief actuary of the Social Security Administration, estimated last month that a retiree with a low income in 2065 would end up with slightly more money than he would receive under Social Security as it is.
 People in the middle third of incomes would see the combined benefits from Social Security and their private accounts slip to about 80 percent of the amounts promised today.
 For people who earn more than $90,000 a year in today's dollars, the estimated benefits would be reduced by about one-third.
 Mr. Pozen's approach would not eliminate the projected shortfall of Social Security, which the government now estimates to be $4 trillion over the next 75 years, but analysts estimated that it could eliminate about three-quarters of the shortfall.
 The idea has some support in Congress. Senator Robert Bennett, Republican of Utah, has introduced a Social Security bill based on progressive indexation. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, plans to introduce a similar bill after the Easter recess.
 ''I think it's a great idea,'' Mr. Graham said in an interview on Thursday. ''If you don't recalculate the benefit formulas by going away from wage growth, you can't solve the problem.''
 Critics say the plan would gradually hurt public support for Social Security because it would cut into benefits for middle-income workers without reducing their taxes.
 Jason Furman, an economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said high-income workers who contribute more in payroll taxes would eventually receive no more in Social Security benefits than workers at the bottom.
 ''This raises the question of whether broad political support for Social Security can be sustained if workers pay very different amounts of payroll taxes but most workers receive the same level of benefits,'' Mr. Furman wrote in a research note on Monday.
 Mr. Bush has so far refused to propose a specific plan for cutting future benefits, offering only a proposal to let people divert part of their money to personal retirement accounts.
 But White House officials acknowledge that personal accounts would do little or nothing to solve Social Security's anticipated shortfalls when the nation's baby boomers retire over the next two decades.
 Mr. Bush and others have said that many options are on the table, except raising payroll tax rates.
 In January, Mr. Bush proposed that people be allowed to divert up to 4 percent of their income from payroll taxes to private accounts. Traditional guaranteed retirement benefits would be reduced by the amount of those contributions, plus the anticipated interest earned on Treasury bonds -- 3 percent above inflation.
 White House officials said they were open to reducing guaranteed benefits by less than 3 percent, which would mean giving people greater security but adding hundreds of billions of dollars to the plan's cost.
 Senate Republicans, who do not have enough votes to block a Democratic filibuster, are divided.
 Mr. Graham, struggling to win Democratic support, has a plan that would restore Social Security's solvency with a mix of benefit cuts on future retirees and an increase in the ceiling on payroll taxes for people who earn more than $90,000 a year.
 But other Republicans, like Senator John Sununu of New Hampshire and Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, argue that Social Security can be fixed by a bold program of big personal retirement accounts.
 ''I think it's a huge mistake for us as Republicans to go out and talk about cutting benefits,'' Mr. DeMint said in an interview on Thursday. ''If all we are going to do is cut benefits and raise taxes, we don't need to do anything now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Social Security (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005



543 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A.I.G. Is Said to Consider Cutting Ties to Greenberg
The directors of American International Group, the insurance giant whose transactions are under investigation, are nearing a decision to cut all of the company's ties to Maurice R. Greenberg, its former chief executive, according to two people briefed on the board's deliberations.
 On March 14, Mr. Greenberg was forced by the board to resign his position as the chief executive after directors learned of a transaction he initiated in 2000 that appeared to artificially bolster the company's financial position. Mr. Greenberg, who had run the company with an iron hand since 1967, was allowed to retain the title of nonexecutive chairman for an unspecified period of time. [Page A1.]

Disney to Overhaul Planning Unit
The Walt Disney Company announced that it was restructuring its corporate strategic planning division, which will give more authority to individual units. Peter Murphy, left, who has run strategic planning since 1998, will step down as chief strategic officer and serve as an adviser to Robert A. Iger, who will become chief executive in September when Michael D. Eisner departs. [B2.]

U.S. to Sell Jet Fighters to Pakistan
The United States will sell F-16 jet fighters, made by Lockheed Martin, to Pakistan. The size of the sale has not been decided, but Pakistan previously said it was seeking about two dozen of the planes. [A1.]

Air France said it planned to replace part of its aging fleet of cargo planes with Boeing's new 777 freighter. [B3.]

Cause of Refinery Blast Discussed
The refinery blast in Texas that killed 15 people was probably caused by a leak of two chemicals that are used to make ingredients for gasoline, a member of a federal chemical safety agency said. [A10.]

Higher Air Fares Feared in Europe
Consumer groups are saying that buying a plane ticket in France, Germany or Spain could become more expensive if the European Commission deregulates computer reservations systems for air travel, as it plans to do later this year. [B3.]

Prices Decline Again in Japan
Consumer prices in Japan fell 0.4 percent in February from a year earlier, the latest sign that the country remains mired in a nearly seven-year battle with deflation. [B3.]

Swedish Telecom Firm in Deal
TeliaSonera, a Swedish mobile phone company, said that it had agreed to pay $3.1 billion in cash for control of Turkey's largest cellular operator. [B3.]

Large Animal Farms Draw Protests
A new generation of animal farms is pumping money into rural economies but also drawing protests from environmental groups and homeowners. [A7.]

Report Cites Vulnerable Airline Data
The Transportation Security Administration did not adequately monitor at least six airlines' transfer of sensitive passenger information to private companies and federal agencies in 2002 and 2003, according to a report. [A11.]

Krispy Kreme Deadline Extended
For the second time this year, lenders for Krispy Kreme Doughnuts have agreed to push back a deadline before the company defaults on its $150 million credit line. [B2.]

Judge Rules Against Northwest
Northwest Airlines violated a contract with employees when it refused to redeem $226 million in company shares received as part of a 1993 concession pact, a judge ruled. Trustees for unionized airline employees sought to redeem the stock in August 2003. The airline, which elected to buy back the shares with cash, declined to do so because it would hurt its financial condition. [B2.]

St. Paul Travelers to Sell Stake
The St. Paul Travelers Companies said it would sell its 79 percent stake in the money manager Nuveen Investments Inc. in a three-step process that will help shore up its capital position. [B5.]

Court Setback for Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley might have to set aside more money to cover costs for a legal battle with the financier Ronald O. Perelman after a setback in a Florida court. [B5.]

Financial Markets Closed
Many financial markets were closed yesterday for Good Friday. They reopen Monday.


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Northwest shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); INSURANCE (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); AIR FREIGHT (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (68%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (67%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); DEFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); AIR FARES (62%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); BOEING CO (55%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); TELIASONERA AB (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); LMT (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); TLSN (STO) (51%); TLS1V (HEL) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



544 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: In Ohio, One Farmer's Prosperity Is Another's Poison

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: SOUTH SOLON, Ohio 

 BODY:
To Martin De Haan, central Ohio is the land of milk and honey, emphasis on the milk. A year ago, he fled the teeming shores of the Netherlands because he could not afford to expand his small dairy farm. Here, he found land that was cheap, lush, bountiful and, to his delight, almost hilly.
 ''You don't know what flat is,'' he said, surveying 100 tawny acres of gently rolling terrain, where he hopes to build two barns the length of football fields for 2,100 Holsteins by next year. ''I can't wait to begin.''
 But where Mr. De Haan envisions bovine splendor, some of his neighbors see the farming equivalent of a smoke-belching chemical plant. ''These are not farms, they are factories,'' said Mary Pierce, 44, who lives down the road from Mr. De Haan. ''And they should be regulated as such.'' 
 Ms. Pierce's protests are emblematic of a broader battle being waged in Ohio, Indiana and Michigan over a new generation of large animal farms, many owned by Dutch immigrants, that are pumping money into rural economies but also drawing sharp protests from environmental groups and homeowners concerned about water pollution, odors and land values. 
 Over the past seven years, more than 40 Dutch dairy farmers have moved to the region, driven out of the Netherlands by costly milk quotas, intense competition, tough environmental regulations and high land prices.
 In America, the Dutch farmers, with the help of an Ohio-based company, have opened large farms that supporters say have helped revitalize the region's once proud and powerful dairy industry, whose steady decline in the 1990's hurt local crop farmers and milk processors.
 ''Our production and cow numbers have actually begun to increase because of these farms,'' said Tim Demland, executive director of the Ohio Dairy Producers. ''They are vital to a rich Ohio tradition.''
 But critics say the farms, which typically have several hundred and sometimes thousands of cows, are an insult to another tradition: the small farm where herds of 60 to 150 cows graze on open grassland. The large farms, known as confined animal feeding operations, have too little acreage to allow grazing, produce more manure than they can handle and threaten to pollute aquifers, critics contend. 
 Last year the federal Environmental Protection Agency issued citations against 16 of the Dutch farms in Ohio, Indiana and Michigan, asserting that they had violated clean-water regulations intended to prevent liquid manure and other wastes from leaching into waterways. 
 The Dutch farmers contend there is little evidence that their farms have contaminated wells or waterways, noting that they generally live on the farms and have a vested interest in keeping the water clean. But a Michigan group says it has documented dozens of manure and silage discharges into local streams; the discharges led to state action against Dutch farmers.
 What perhaps riles opponents of the large farms most is their smell. Each farm is required to build ponds capable of storing millions of gallons of liquid manure until it can be spread on nearby crop fields. On warm summer days, those lagoons can advertise their existence for miles around, critics complain.
 ''Sometimes it will be so bad it will wake you up at night,'' said Diane Furbee, who with her husband runs a crop and beef-cattle farm in Madison County, Ohio, near a Dutch-owned farm with nearly 800 cows. 
 ''For God's sake, we farm,'' she said. ''We know what manure smells like. But our air is so bad, we can't breathe.''
 The driving force behind the Dutch dairy farms has been Vreba-Hoff Dairy Development of Wauseon, Ohio, which was founded by a family of Dutch farmers in 1997. For fees of $3 million or more, the firm helps Dutch farmers obtain visas, purchase land and apply for dairy permits. 
 Since its creation, Vreba-Hoff has settled 42 Dutch families in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana -- 24 in Ohio alone -- and has nine more projects in development, said Cecilia Conway, a partner in the company.
 The Assen family owns one of those farms in central Ohio. Several years ago, they considered moving from the Netherlands to Germany, Canada or New Zealand. But Ohio, with its proximity to lucrative East Coast markets, was most alluring. They opened their farm two years ago and recently received a permit to expand to 1,700 cows from 780.
 The farm is a model of high-tech efficiency. Inside one barn, computerized machines draw milk from 48 black-and-white Holsteins. When sensors tell the machines the milk is drained, the stalls open with a hydraulic whoosh and another 48 cows saunter in. Cows are milked three times a day, producing a daily average of 86 pounds each, said Pieter Assen, the family's youngest son, who runs the farm with his brother.
 Outside is the 15-foot-deep, seven-million-gallon manure lagoon, which will be expanded to hold up to 24 million gallons. On a cold March day, the odor is slight. But Mr. Assen, who lives in a white house across the street, acknowledges it can occasionally be powerful. 
 In a barn next door, hundreds of cows munch on feed or roll in sand pits. Critics contend that the conditions are inhumane because the barns are crowded and the cows rarely go outside. But Mr. Assen, a friendly 23-year-old, says the Holsteins are perfectly happy. The size of the farm, he asserts, keeps prices low.
 ''People complain about Wal-Mart, but they still shop there,'' he said in a Dutch accent tinged with a southern Ohio drawl. ''Everyone wants things cheap.''
 Groups opposing the large farms have sprung up across the region, demanding tougher regulatory oversight. One Ohio group, Citizens Against Mega Dairies, has filed a lawsuit demanding that the state's Department of Agriculture rescind a permit to one Dutch dairy on the ground that the department lacks the expertise to regulate such large industries.
 Richard C. Sahli, an environmental lawyer representing the group, said that while the number of confined animal feeding operations has more than tripled in Ohio over the past decade, to about 140, the state has only a handful of inspectors to oversee their operations.
 ''Ohioans are getting the rock-bottom minimum in protection,'' he said.
 At a recent public meeting about Mr. De Haan's application for a dairy permit, state officials defended their regulations, asserting that drinking wells were not in danger of contamination. More than 100 opponents who packed a rural church for the meeting, many wearing surgical masks and ''No Mega Farms'' buttons, seemed unconvinced.
 ''Agricultural groups try to peg us as hating the odors because we're not farmers,'' said Kathryn Bundy, a leader of the group. ''But that's not the case. A lot of farmers know that these operations are destructive.''
 Mr. De Haan, a wiry, 51-year-old father of three who chain-smokes hand-rolled cigarettes, said he was not surprised by the protests, having witnessed conflicts between homeowners, environmental regulators and farmers in the densely populated Netherlands. 
 His family has been in dairy farming since the Napoleonic era, he said, and he wants his 15-year-old son, who lounged nearby watching sports on television, to inherit the business. In Ohio, he said, that will be possible.
 ''Once we have been around awhile, people will forget we are here,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Pierce, left, opposes a 2,100-cow dairy farm planned by Martin De Haan, above. Critics point to the cows' living conditions and the odor of manure holding ponds like one outside London, Ohio, below.
 Some of the 780 cows at a Dutch family's dairy in Ohio. As immigrants open more large farms in the Midwest, opposition grows. (Photographs by Michael Houghton for the New York Times)Map of Ohio highlighting South Solon: Dutch families have opened large dairies in South Solon and across the Midwest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (87%); MILK (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FACTORY FARMS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURE (74%); FLUID MILK MFG (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (71%); WATER QUALITY (70%); MAMMALS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



545 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM FESTIVAL REVIEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: A Global View of Human Experience That Tells Some of the Stories Behind the News

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
As foreign-language films that appear in the United States are increasingly marginalized by the Hollywood-dominated marketplace, a festival like New Directors/New Films -- a joint presentation of the Museum of Modern Art and the Film Society of Lincoln Center -- becomes one of the few cinematic expressions of a global perspective. A movie like ''Live-In Maid'' humanizes an economic crisis in Argentina that for most people is just a bunch of facts and figures in a newspaper article or a one-minute clip on television. The scary documentary ''Darwin's Nightmare'' portrays a world teetering on the brink of catastrophe in which, like it or not, international trade and transportation connect everyone. ''Young Rebels,'' a modest documentary about the Cuban rap scene, shows the consequences of Communism and the longstanding United States trade embargo on this tiny island nation. An immersion in New Directors/New Films is one way to develop a perspective on the human experience that transcends international power politics and commerce. STEPHEN HOLDEN

'Live-In Maid'

Directed by Jorge Gaggero
3:30 p.m. today, Alice Tully Hall; 9 p.m. tomorrow, Museum of Modern Art
 A runner-up in the world cinema competition at Sundance, this debut feature from Argentina is, to my mind, the best film in this year's festival. Set in Buenos Aires during the recent economic crisis, it observes the relationship between Beba (Norma Aleandro), a spoiled, temperamental member of the city's beleaguered upper middle class, and her longtime maid, Dora (Norma Argentina). Ms. Aleandro, the down-to-earth grande dame of Argentine cinema, and Ms. Argentina, an amateur who is a former maid herself, perform their tango of class resentment and unacknowledged dependency with consummate subtlety and grace. Those words also apply to Mr. Gaggero's direction, which is breathtakingly understated. Seen through his camera, the rooms and hallways of Beba's apartment, where most of the action takes place, seem to resonate with unspoken emotions -- love, loyalty, regret, spite -- that achieve a poignant, comical clarity precisely because they are never expressed. This film In effect depicts the cataclysmic transformation of a society through the lives of two ordinary women. It is modest in scope but large in spirit and ambition, and very nearly perfect in execution. A.O.SCOTT

'Murderball'

Directed by Henry Alex Rubin and Dana Adam Shapiro
6 p.m. today, Alice Tully Hall; noon tomorrow, Walter Reade Theater
 If this documentary about the sport of paraplegic rugby were just another profile in courage of athletes who have triumphed over disability, it would still be an inspirational crowd pleaser. But it's deeper than that. Murderball, as it was originally called, is a contact sport played on a basketball court by rival teams equipped with armored wheelchairs. Spanning two years and culminating with the 2004 Paralympic Games in Athens, the movie focuses on the intense rivalry between the United States and Canadian teams, a competition made all the more bitter by the fact that the Canadian coach, Joe Soares is a former American star. The film explores Mr. Soares's home life and his troubled relationship with his 12-year-old son. Among the players, the movie devotes the most attention to Mark Zupan, the charismatic American team leader who was disabled by a freakish accident in a car driven by his best friend. 
 The film provides a lot of information about paraplegics, even about their sex lives. And as much as it applauds the players' fighting spirit, it delivers an unspoken critique of rampant sports mania and an obsession with winning that can wreak personal havoc off the playing field. HOLDEN

'They Came Back'

Directed by Robin Campillo
9 p.m. today, Alice Tully Hall; 3:30 p.m. tomorrow, Walter Reade Theater
 A zombie flick like no other, this quietly shivery, intelligent French film opens with the disquieting image of the dead pouring out of a local cemetery. Dressed in light, summery clothes, their faces still, their gait unhurried, the women and men flood into a small city where they are -- sometimes passionately, sometimes reluctantly -- reclaimed by their survivors. Like refugees from some disaster or faraway land (which of course is exactly what they are), the dead are herded into emergency housing, whereupon they classified and subjected to classic French bureaucracy. 
 As officials fret over how to integrate the returnees back into the land of the living (do they get their old jobs back?), mothers and fathers, wives and husbands try to find a way to reconnect with loved ones they let go of long ago. Meanwhile, with stealthy, increasingly unnerving calm and under the cover of night, the dead go about their own clandestine business. Why they came back is, of course, the film's great mystery. It's a testament to the director, Robin Campillo -- who co-wrote Laurent Cantet's excellent ''Time Out'' -- that this impressive first feature, with its understated atmosphere of dread, is as much a philosophical head-scratcher as it is a nifty nail-biter. MANOHLA DARGIS

'Darwin's Nightmare'

Directed by Hubert Sauper
3:45 p.m. tomorrow, Museum of Modern Art; 6 p.m. Monday, Walter Reade Theater
 Hubert Sauper, an Austrian documentary maker, traveled to the shores of Lake Victoria in Tanzania and returned with a picture of hell on earth: a tableau of ecological catastrophe, economic exploitation, poverty and disease. At the center of this harrowing documentary is the lake itself, its biological diversity destroyed by the alien Nile perch, which is also the region's main economic resource. Fishermen -- migrant laborers who live in makeshift encampments where AIDS is rampant -- haul in the fish, which are then processed in well-scrubbed modern factories and loaded into cargo planes bound for Europe. Using tried-and-true cinema verite techniques, Mr. Sauper gives a sense not only of how the different parts of this damaged society are related, but also of how they fit within the global economy. The inequities of this system are summarized in his discovery that the planes that take the fish away from a country where millions live on the brink of starvation arrive empty, or else filled with weapons. That some measure of humanity still flickers in this cruel landscape makes the film that much more devastating. It tentatively suggests a diagnosis, but despairs of the possibility of a cure. SCOTT

'Certi Bambini'

Directed by Andrea and Antonio Frazzi
6:15 and 9 p.m. tomorrow, Walter Reade Theater; 8:30 p.m. Monday, Museum of Modern Art
 The style of this richly atmospheric portrait of a youth drifting inexorably into a life of crime on the streets of Naples might be described as contemporary, high-gloss Italian neorealism, if that's not a contradiction in terms. Its orphaned 11-year-old protagonist, Rosario (Gianluca Di Gennaro), shares an apartment with his ailing grandmother but spends most of his time hustling on the streets with a posse of friends who play chicken on the highway by doing acrobatics in the middle of traffic. In return for small change, he also does odd jobs for the local gangsters, from whom he absorbs all the wrong values. The sultry-eyed young actor gives a powerful performance of an aimless boy rapidly going bad. But the movie's method of storytelling is frustrating. It would be a much stronger film if Rosario's life weren't parceled out in muddled flashbacks in his mind as he rides the subway on his way to his first serious criminal assignment. HOLDEN

'The Welts'

Directed by Magdalena Piekorz
6 p.m. Monday, Museum of Modern Art; 6 and 8:30 p.m. Tuesday, Walter Reade Theater
 A film divided against itself, this Polish feature opens with a man (Michal Zebrowski) staring into a mirror. This is our hero, Wojtek, who tells us that though he scarcely believes it, he did in fact have a childhood. In an extended flashback, the first-time director Magdalena Piekorz proceeds to tell us precisely what kind of childhood Wojtek (now played by Wacek Adamczyk) endured at the heavy hands of his deranged father. This extended interlude has a fine sense of detail and a thick, choking atmosphere that brings us deep into Wojtek's private world of pain. 
 Which makes it rather disconcerting -- and finally disappointing -- when after an hour the story shifts back to the adult Wojtek, a lonely, isolated wreck. Although nicely played by Mr. Zebrowski, who tries his best to disguise his good looks with a compendium of scowls, the wounded man turns out to be far less gripping than that of the wounded boy. What had been a delicately observed coming-of-age story is forfeited for a banal journey of self-discovery and recovery, complete with a sensitive lover, a torrent of tears and that big fat shiny lie: closure. DARGIS

'Young Rebels'

Directed by Ryan Fleck and Anna Boden
9 p.m. Monday, Walter Reade Theater; 9:15 p.m. next Saturday, Museum of Modern Art
 As young Cuban musicians with few hopes of commercial success embrace rap music, they look at American hip-hop with a mixture of pride (in the purity of their own political and social messages) and envy (at the wealth and fame achieved by American rappers). This informative documentary introduces us to a number of these earnest young pop messengers, who barely have the resources to make a CD (much less mass-produce it) but have the wherewithal to organize a rap festival. From observing American culture, they are already aware that commercial success would probably contaminate their fledgling movement the way it did hip-hop in the United States. But until the day Cuban rappers are flaunting mountains of bling, the film suggests, they are waging a noble struggle to be heard. HOLDEN


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Norma Aleandro, left, and Norma Argentina in Jorge Gaggero's ''Live-In Maid''
above, a scene from Hubert Sauper's documentary ''Darwin's Nightmare''
 right, Gianluca Di Gennaro, center, and associates in Andrea and Antonio Frazzi's ''Certi Bambini.'' (Photographs by Film Society of Lincoln Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); PARALYSIS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%) Motion Pictures; New Directors/new Films (Festival)

PERSON: Stephen Holden

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



546 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Vital Signs of a Ruined City Grow Stronger in Falluja

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: FALLUJA, Iraq, March 20 

 BODY:
Four months after American bombs and guns pounded much of this city into ruins, some signs of life are returning. A kebab shop and a bakery have reopened on the bullet-scarred main boulevard. About a third of the city's 250,000 residents have trickled back since early January. American marines and Iraqi police officers patrol the streets, and there has been little violence.
 But the safety has come at a high price. To enter Falluja, residents must wait about four hours to get through the rigid military checkpoints, and there are strict nightly curfews. That has stunted the renascent economy and the reconstruction effort. It has also frustrated the residents, who are still coming to grips with their shattered streets and houses. Many have jobs or relatives outside the city.
 ''Falluja is safe,'' said Hadima Khalifa Abed, 42, who returned to her ruined home in January with her husband and 10 children. ''But it is safe like a prison.'' 
 American military officials here say they face a difficult choice. Easing the harsh security measures might help revive the economy and cut the 50 percent unemployment rate; it could also allow the return of the insurgents who ran Falluja from last April until the American intervention in November. Even now, insurgents lob occasional mortar shells into the city, and a number of contractors have been killed here. 
 There are other obstacles. Falluja still lacks a mayor and a city council because of the new Iraqi National Assembly's failure to form a government. The American military is reluctant to make decisions that will shape the city for decades, and the resulting power vacuum has been crippling.
 Hundreds of new police officers, trained in Jordan, are expected to arrive in the city soon, American military officials say. Nongovernmental organizations have donated truckloads of equipment for fire stations, hospitals and schools. But there are no police stations for the officers to work in, and there are no new fire stations because no one has the authority to decide where to build them.
 ''Without a mayor, no one settles the disputes,'' said an American military official who is involved in the reconstruction effort and who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Without a city council how do you get a design approved, and how do you coordinate a plan for a functioning city?''
 All the same, much has improved since residents first returned to a nearly deserted city almost three months ago.
 On a tour of the city's central neighborhoods with an American convoy, civilian cars and taxis could be seen cruising the streets. Customers shopped at fruit and vegetable markets, and a crowd waited outside a new branch of the Rafidain Bank.
 At the Palestine School, where classes started again two months ago, the cheerful shrieks of students could be heard in the hallways. 
 ''Things are almost back to normal here,'' said the headmaster, Samer Eyd Jawhar, 60, a portly man in a light blue jacket and tie. ''We have teachers and books. Things are getting better.''
 Everywhere, there are complaints about the strict military control of the city. Najim Abed, the director of an emergency clinic, said its one ambulance often has trouble getting in and out of the city. It is also hard to reach patients at night, because the ambulance must be accompanied by a military patrol, he said.
 There are still two battalions of marines operating in the city, with some added units like a Navy Seabee engineering team. There are at least two battalions of Iraqi police officers, though military officials declined to give any exact figures. 
 Meanwhile the rebuilding efforts are proceeding, however slowly. After the American incursion in November, Falluja's utilities lay in ruins. Today, electricity and running water are available in 40 percent of the city's homes and shops, American officials say, and will reach the rest within the next month. The sewer drainage system is working again, and longer-term plans are under way to completely replace the city's rickety electrical grid. 
 Insurgents have killed a few of the contractors who have done rebuilding work, contractors and American officials say. Others have received death threats. Many contractors refuse to work in the city at all. No Shiite Arab contractors have done work here, because the largely Sunni Arab insurgency has made them targets, said one Western contractor who asked that he and his firm not be named for safety reasons.
 The effect of the threats is apparent even in the American military headquarters here, where the bathroom is still unfinished. The contractor working on that bathroom received a threat to stop working or die, said the American military official. The work stopped. But the owner of the company, who did extensive work with the American military and lived in Baghdad, was killed last week anyway. 
 ''We have tried to hire a new contractor to finish the job, but have not found one yet willing to work here,'' the American official said. 
 But American and Iraqi officials agree that the city's residents have worked hard to prevent the intimidation. A group of Falluja residents, including some tribal figures, have formed an anti-intimidation council, said the Western contractor. 
 An effort to compensate residents for damage to their homes has begun in the past two weeks.
 On Sunday, Ms. Abed was among the second group to receive a compensation check in the former youth center where the American military has its Falluja headquarters. The checks were given out by members of the Falluja Working Group, a mix of former government employees and others who form an ad hoc city council. 
 Each person received an initial payment equal to 20 percent of the cost of the damage as assessed by a group of Iraqi engineers. The money comes from the interim Iraqi government.
 Ms. Abed, dressed in a full-length black abaya, explained that she returned to her home in the city's Andalus district in January to find the kitchen and pantry almost totally destroyed, with open sky visible through the ceiling. The rest of the house was a relief: there were some holes in the walls, nothing more. The refrigerator, television and anything else of value were gone. 
 When her name was called, Ms. Abed went to the front of the room and received a check for 2,400,000 dinars, about $1,655. Like many of the 30 people who received checks that day, she said it was nowhere near enough. Her husband and four of her children are suffering from mental illness, she said, and the entire family talks constantly about their fears for the future.
 Compared with her neighbors, though, she feels lucky. 
 ''When I saw their houses were totally destroyed, I said, 'Thank God, we are O.K.; we are better off than the others,''' Ms. Abed said. 
 Falluja's future is full of questions. The Iraqi government has determined that compensating the city's residents for their damaged homes will cost $496 million, of which $100 million has been allocated, American officials say. 
 The city's identity, too, is uncertain. In an effort to push Falluja in a new direction, American and Iraqi officials have carefully screened applicants for police and government jobs to make sure they have no insurgent ties. 
 ''We listen to the voice of the people, not the voice of the former regime,'' said Lt. Col. Harvey Williams, an Army civil affairs officer working on economic development issues in Falluja. ''We're trying to set a whole new paradigm.''
 But Falluja has a history of sympathy with the insurgents, and it is still not clear how they will react as the reconstruction continues. 
 ''When you are insulted, it is not enough to get money,'' said Sabih Shamkhi, 61, who was also waiting to receive a compensation check for his damaged house. ''But money is better than nothing. We hope the government will fulfill the rest of its obligations to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Among signs of recovery in Falluja, a marine laced a shoe for a pupil at the rebuilt Palestine School
 and Hadima Khalifa Abed, left, after receiving a compensation check for her destroyed property. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)Map of Iraq highlighting Falluja: Months after an American offensive, Falluja is coming back to life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (86%); CHILDREN (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CURFEW (71%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAFIDAIN BANK (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



547 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE SCHIAVO CASE: THE FAMILIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: Behind Life-and-Death Fight, A Rift That Began Years Ago

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Lynn Waddell and Dennis Blank contributed reporting from Pinellas County, Fla., for this article.

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., March 25 

 BODY:
It is almost beyond belief, given the sea of distance between them now, that Terri Schiavo's husband and parents once shared a home, a life, a goal. 
 But for years -- when Ms. Schiavo walked and talked among them and after her catastrophic collapse -- the headstrong young man and his traditionalist in-laws were, by all accounts, friendly.
 As the brain-damaged Ms. Schiavo lay dying in a hospice and her husband and parents continued to the end their battle over her fate, the rancor built and a transfixed nation wondered how a 12-year-old fight -- even one that everyone agrees began over money -- ever became so bad, culminating in daily court fights and decisions. [Page A8.] 
 The hurled accusations persist: adulterer, opportunists, murderer, liars. Everyone on the street has taken sides, guessing at the motivations of Michael Schiavo and the Schindlers but never knowing for sure.
 It is easy for most people to assume that blinding love for their daughter drives the parents, who have begged Mr. Schiavo to give them his wife and walk away. But his motives are harder to fathom. Is it stubbornness that drives him, or fervor to commit fully to the other woman in his life, a girlfriend of eight years with whom he has two children? Does he want Ms. Schiavo to die because she is a burden, or because, as he says time and again, he promised her not to keep her alive by artificial means? 
 The truth may always be out of reach. But the history of Mr. Schiavo and the Schindlers, gleaned from court papers, interviews and their statements over the years, offers at least some insight into a war of clashing values, personalities and hopes. 
 Theirs is a battle over power, money and a woman they all claimed to love more than anything, born of perceived betrayal that grew more painful with each attack.
 Even now, their visits to her deathbed are carefully orchestrated so as not to coincide, and they cannot agree on what to do with her remains after she dies. 
 ''It's not a family issue anymore,'' Ms. Schiavo's younger brother, Bobby Schindler, said, adding that it had been years since the Schindlers considered Mr. Schiavo anything but a legal opponent. ''All we've ever asked is that he give Terri back to us.''
 To Mr. Schiavo and his family, it has all been highly personal. 
 ''We are not mean people,'' his brother Scott said in an interview on Friday. ''But when you start throwing stones like that, and have absolutely no respect for anybody else, it's hard to even go there.''
 They met in the Philadelphia suburbs, where Ms. Schiavo and Michael Schiavo spent their childhoods and married in 1984, barely past adolescence. The couple relied on the generosity of her parents, Robert and Mary Schindler, first living in their basement in Pennsylvania, then moving to a condominium here that Mr. Schindler bought when he sold his heavy equipment business.
 The Schindlers followed the couple to this sunny coastal city, and though they did not see Mr. Schiavo often -- he was working long hours at beachside restaurants -- they had no problem with him. He called them Mom and Dad. They paid their daughter and son in-law's rent. 
 The couple wanted to have a baby, according to court papers, but failed to conceive, even after consulting a fertility doctor. By then, Ms. Schiavo, who is 5 foot 3 and had weighed more than 200 pounds in high school, weighed 110. Her brother and sister now say that she was starting to feel unhappy in her marriage. In an interview, Bobby Schindler said Ms. Schiavo had confided in him at a restaurant one night.
 ''She brought me over to the bathroom and broke down in tears,'' he said. ''She said her marriage was falling apart, but she didn't have the guts to divorce him. I was shocked.''
 In recent years, the Schindlers have also described Mr. Schiavo as a controlling husband who would keep track of the mileage on his wife's car, lash out at her for spending money and hound her to stay thin. They have said that the couple fought in the months before Ms. Schiavo's collapse and that Mr. Schiavo was, perhaps, harming his wife. 
 Mr. Schiavo's brother Brian said he found that unfeasible. ''Mike was three times her size,'' Brian Schiavo, who lives in Sarasota, said in an interview in 2003. ''If he was abusing her, there would be some sign of something. She would have taken her two cats and gone to her parents'.''
 Whatever the relationships were, they changed profoundly in February 1990, when Mr. Schiavo says he awoke to a thud in the dead of night and found his wife passed out on the floor. Together, the Schindlers and Mr. Schiavo learned that Ms. Schiavo's heart had stopped and that she had suffered drastic brain damage before the paramedics arrived. Doctors say a potassium deficiency, possibly caused by an eating disorder, led to her collapse. 
 The parents and son-in-law promised to see Ms. Schiavo, just 26, recover. The Schiavos and Schindlers moved in, sharing a house in St. Petersburg Beach as they devoted themselves to Ms. Schiavo's care. In June 1990, Mr. Schiavo was appointed his wife's guardian, and months later, he took her to California for an experimental, ultimately unsuccessful, treatment to stimulate her brain. 
 Ms. Schiavo was later placed in a nursing home in Largo, Fla., where Mr. Schiavo was strict with and sometimes hostile toward the staff, court transcripts show.
 ''His demanding concern for her well-being and meticulous care by the nursing home earned him the characterization by the administrator as 'a nursing home administrator's nightmare,''' wrote Jay Wolfson, a court-appointed independent guardian for Ms. Schiavo who had no say in her case but researched it in 2003. 
 Mr. Schiavo even went to nursing school with the goal, his brothers say, of better caring for his wife. 
 He filed a malpractice suit against the obstetrician who had overseen Ms. Schiavo's fertility therapy, contending that the potassium deficiency should have been detected. In January 1993, the couple was awarded $750,000 in economic damages for her and $300,000 for loss of companionship for him.
 A month later, on St. Valentine's Day, both sides say, a fight over the award signaled the beginning of their estrangement. The way Mr. Schiavo has described it, he was visiting his wife when the Schindlers walked in and Mr. Schindler asked how much money he would receive from Mr. Schiavo's part of the malpractice settlement.
 The Schindlers say the fight was about what the treatment their daughter's money would go toward, with their advocating rigorous therapy and Mr. Schiavo wanting basic care.
 The rift quickly deepened. Mr. Schiavo blocked his in-laws' access to his wife's medical records. In July 1993, the Schindlers briefly tried to remove Mr. Schiavo as her guardian. Scott Schiavo said his brother was deeply offended by what he saw as a crass effort by Mr. Schindler to claim some of the settlement money. 
 As the fight played out, Mr. Schiavo's hopes for recovery apparently evaporated. In 1994, court records show, he decided not to have Ms. Schiavo treated for a urinary tract infection, a move prompted, he later testified, by her doctor's advice. 
 ''I think he finally saw the reality of it,'' Brian Schiavo said. 
 Ultimately, Ms. Schiavo's nursing home challenged the order, and he canceled it, along with a ''do not resuscitate'' order he imposed, Mr. Wolfson said. 
 But there was no reversing the ill will. 
 Only after his mother's death in 1997 did Mr. Schiavo tell his in-laws that on several occasions his wife had said she would not want to be kept alive artificially. The timing of the disclosure-- after he had won the malpractice money and begun dating Jodi Centonze, with whom he would have two children -- made the Schindlers deeply suspicious, they say. They continue to insist that their daughter, who they say tried to administer CPR to the family dog when it was dying, would never choose to have her life cut short.
 ''My sister and I were very close, and we never talked about this stuff,'' Bobby Schindler said. ''I mean, who would at 20 years old, 25?''
 In 1998, when Mr. Schiavo asked a court's permission to remove his wife's feeding tube, the Schindlers challenged, leading to a trial. That is when Michael and Scott Schiavo and their sister in-law Joan Schiavo testified that Ms. Schiavo had told them never to prolong her life artificially. 
 Scott Schiavo testified that after his grandmother was on life support at the end of her life, Ms. Schiavo had told him: ''If I ever go like that, just let me go. Don't leave me there.''
 Judge George Greer of Pinellas-Pasco Circuit Court found the testimony constituted ''clear and convincing'' evidence of Ms. Schiavo's wishes, and her feeding tube was removed in April 2001. It was reconnected days later, after a former girlfriend of Mr. Schiavo called a radio station to say he had told her he had no idea whether his wife would have wanted life-prolonging measures.
 That led to new testimony, but it did not change Judge Greer's mind, partly because the girlfriend recanted.
 The Schindlers stepped up their publicity campaign that year, videotaping their daughter and distributing the tapes to television stations. That infuriated Mr. Schiavo, Scott Schiavo said, because his self-conscious wife would have been mortified. 
 ''She was very, very particular about the way she looked, very proud when she walked out the door,'' Scott Schiavo said on Friday. ''She would be so upset to have the world seeing her that way, and Michael knew that.''
 Mr. Schiavo's anger intensified as the Schindlers went increasingly public, winning support from religious groups, news media outlets and, ultimately, Gov. Jeb Bush. At one point, Mr. Schiavo banned the Schindlers from seeing his wife, saying aides at her hospice had found what appeared to be needle marks on her arm after one of their visits. 
 A police report found no evidence of wrongdoing, and their visiting rights resumed three months later. 
 Mr. Schiavo's demeanor, prickly and forceful, did not gain him much sympathy. 
 As the case has attracted national publicity, Mr. Schiavo has become the subject of such intense, widespread hatred that he and his family regularly receive death threats. His brother Scott, who lives in Pennsylvania, said he had received enough such threats this week to send off his children. On Friday, the F.B.I. said it arrested a man in North Carolina for sending an e-mail message that offered a $250,000 bounty for Michael Schiavo's death. 
 By contrast, the Schindlers -- he affable and jokey, she quiet and melancholic -- worked hard to win hearts and minds. 
 Scott Schiavo said he felt sorry for Mrs. Schindler, who he said was always close to her daughter, but not for Mr. Schindler, who he said thrived on the attention. If it were not for the father, he added, ''this could have been resolved a long time ago.''
 ''Terri would still have whatever dignity she had left,'' Mr. Schiavo said, ''and everything would be peaceful.''
 Instead, Mr. Schiavo has even rejected the Schindlers' request that their daughter be buried in Florida instead of cremated, which they object to as Catholics. He also refused their request to let Ms. Schiavo die in their home instead of at the hospice. 
 Mr. Schiavo's lawyer told reporters this week that the cremated remains would be buried at the Schiavo family plot outside Philadelphia, far from the parents who fought so intensely to win her back. Whether they can or will visit her gravesite could be the next subject of dispute.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Terri and Michael Schiavo in an undated picture. They met in the Philadelphia suburbs, where they had spent their childhoods and married in 1984. (Photo by Family photo, via CNN)(pg. A8)Chart/Photos: ''A Schiavo Family Tree''The once friendly Schiavo and Schindler families have been driven apart by disagreement over the fate of Terri Schiavo, who suffered brain damage. Her husband, Michael, argued for removal of her feeding tube, while her parents and siblings disagreed.FATHER: Robert SchindlerMOTHER: Mary SchindlerBROTHER-IN-LAW: Michael VitadamoSISTER: Suzanne VitadamoBROTHER: Bobby SchindlerTerri SchiavoHUSBAND: Michael SchiavoBROTHER-IN-LAW: Brian SchiavoMichael Schiavo has three other brothers (not pictured)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MURDER (73%); HOSPICE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



548 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Senate and Assembly in Budget Accord

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 25 

 BODY:
The State Senate and the Assembly reached a budget deal on Friday that would increase spending by more than $1 billion over Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal.
 But a mix of political and constitutional questions left it far from clear what the next step would be as the state struggles to enact a budget by next week's deadline. 
 Tensions between the executive and legislative branches were evident in a meeting that did not happen. 
 Mr. Pataki, a third-term Republican whose budget-making powers were bolstered by a recent Court of Appeals decision, has repeatedly expressed concerns about the Legislature's plan and called the leaders to a public meeting on Friday to discuss them. 
 But Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, declined the invitation, saying he refused to be lectured, so the governor canceled the meeting.
 Mr. Pataki was left facing a phalanx of news cameras alone.
 ''Obviously, if these spending levels are in fact enacted, and our numbers are correct, instead of moving toward fiscal structural balance, we will have taken a huge step backward,'' Mr. Pataki said. 
 He added, ''I am disappointed that the speaker could not come this afternoon, so I have to explain to you what is happening, as opposed to us actually not only talking about it but also trying to resolve some of these issues and move forward.''
 The Legislature said it would restore cuts to the Medicaid program, cap the rate of growth in Medicaid for localities, add $840 million more than last year in school aid and increase spending on transportation projects, but without saying how it would be fully paid for over five years. Whether any of it will happen is unclear.
 Under the court's ruling, the executive is supposed to be the constructor of the budget and the Legislature the critic. The court said the Legislature's prime power was in delaying negotiations. But lawmakers, afraid of being blamed for what would be a 21st consecutive late budget, seemed to find a way around the problem: they came together on a joint legislative budget. Now, they say, if the governor does not resubmit his budget bills to conform to their wishes, any delay that ensues will be his fault.
 So, in an already complicated process, which has been altered further by the court decision, the question is which route Mr. Silver and his colleague in the Senate, Joseph. L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, will decide to take in the next six days.
 One option is that the lawmakers convince Mr. Pataki to make the changes they are requesting to the language of his budget bills so they can more easily pass them into law. He could do that either with or without promising to veto their moves. But Mr. Pataki said he would not resubmit bills to allow the passage of a budget he does not favor. Both the Legislature and the governor claim that they still want to reach consensus.
 Another option is that the lawmakers pass bipartisan budget bills in a way that they believe will not violate the court ruling, but depending on how far their changes would go, such an approach could lead to a legal showdown with the governor. Though less desirable, Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver said they would take that path if Mr. Pataki refused to resubmit his bills.
 ''What's important for us is to make sure that the world knows that the New York State Legislature is committed to a March 31 enactment of a budget,'' Mr. Silver said, standing beside Mr. Bruno as they finished their business at noon on Friday. 
 Picking up the idea, Mr. Bruno went even further. ''Practically speaking, we are done, and we can announce that we're going to have an on-time budget,'' he said.
 In the face of the Legislature's seeming indifference to his involvement, the governor mentioned his new constitutional powers. ''I have the ability, at the end of the process, to exercise my executive powers, and I intend to do that,'' he said. ''I am the executive of this state.''
 Clearly, the politics were charged. Mr. Silver said he would resist the governor's ''attempts to stop us.'' The governor said it was hard to get Mr. Silver to feel comfortable with the open governmental process. On substance, many disagreements remained between the governor and Legislature, and there were holes in the Legislature's plan. One was on the question of which taxes to employ to help pay for $35.8 billion worth of transportation projects, a number evenly split between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and upstate roads and bridges.
 Mr. Pataki said he was alarmed by the spending increases contemplated by the lawmakers. He said his plan would cost $105.6 billion. Mr. Bruno said the Legislature's was worth about $106.5 billion. But Mr. Pataki said it was higher, perhaps adding up to $2 billion to his plan. Under the legislative plan, Mr. Pataki said the state would face a structural gap of $5 billion within two years; double what his staff is projecting if his budget is adopted. But an aide to Mr. Bruno rejected that notion, saying the Senate's projections had been accurate in the past.
 In the health arena, lawmakers said they adopted Mr. Pataki's initiative to assist local governments by requiring the state to pick up a larger share of their rising Medicaid costs. It would cap the rate of growth in those costs, saving $373 million next year and billons of dollars in the future. But the governor said the plan was in jeopardy because the Legislature's overall plan for cutting Medicaid costs fell short of his goal.
 On school aid, Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a Democrat, said one pot of money, $325 million, would go to poorer districts as the governor wanted. But much of the rest of the $840 million total increase in school aid would be divvied up according to current formulas, with New York City getting about 38 percent of overall aid. It was unclear if lawmakers overcompensated to protect current shares of the aid.
 Lawmakers said they had fixed a law, found unconstitutional by an intermediate court, to allow racetracks to install slot-machine-like video lottery terminals. They said the law would allow the gambling to go forward at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens and at Yonkers Racetrack. But the governor said questions remained.
 Lawmakers also moved to simplify the tax code. They proposed to tax businesses only on a percentage of their sales within the state and to cease factoring in their payroll and property value when figuring corporate tax bills. Business leaders hailed the idea, saying it would help to create jobs and would spur investing in the state.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Drawings: ''Legislature Presents Its Budget Proposal''Here are some significant ways in which the New York State Legislature's budget proposal differs from Gov. George E. Pataki's.THE BUDGETWould spend about $106.5 billion, $1.55 billion more than Mr. Pataki would, but he says the Legislature underestimates its spending.PUBLIC SCHOOLSWould increase by $840 million over last year the amount of overall school aid to districts in New York, adding $314 million to Mr. Pataki's proposal.TRANSPORTATIONWould ask voters to approve $2.9 billion in borrowing to pay for transportation projects, with the money evenly split between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and roads and bridges upstate and on Long Island.HEALTHWould reject an increase in taxes on nursing homes and cut in half, to 0.35 percent, an assessment on hospitals proposed by the governor. Would also reject many of the proposed cuts to the Family Health Plus program, a health insurance program for the working poor.ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTWould expand and extend the program of Empire Zones, virtually tax-free economic development zones, creating a control board Mr. Pataki opposes.HIGHER EDUCATIONWould reject the governor's plan to raise tuition by $500 at state and city universities. Would reject cuts in the Tuition Assistance Program and regular annual increases in tuition for incoming students.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); VETO (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); APPEALS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



549 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Implicated U.S. Soldiers Will Not Be Prosecuted
Commanders have decided not to prosecute 17 American soldiers implicated in three separate deaths of prisoners in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2003 and 2004, according to a new accounting released by the Army. Investigators had recommended charges including murder, conspiracy and negligent homicide. A1

Selling Fighter Jets to Pakistan
The United States will sell F-16 jet fighters to Pakistan in a deal that State Department officials said would improve regional security. But the decision was immediately denounced by India as adding a fresh element of instability to relations between the two nuclear neighbors. A1

Falluja Struggling to Recover
Some signs of life are returning to Falluja four months after American bombs and guns pounded much of the city into ruins. About a third of the city's 250,000 residents have trickled back since early January. However, the safety has come at a high price, and the high security has stunted the renascent economy and the reconstruction effort. A5

The delay in forming a new government in Iraq has stalled important projects at ministries and is sowing confusion among current government workers about their duties, senior Iraqi officials say. A5

Suicide bombings and armed attacks across central and northern Iraq left at least 21 people dead. The attacks, ending a week of relative quiet, included three suicide car bombings, the assassination of a high-ranking police official, and the killing of five Iraqi women who did cleaning for the American military. A5

Striving for Calm in Kyrgyzstan
Kyrgyzstan's new leaders appeared to have succeeded in halting looting. As opposition leaders began filling in the ranks of a government, Russia and the United States both said they would work with the new administration. A3

Ailing Pope Views Service
Pope John Paul II, silent and very sick, joined thousands at a Good Friday service at the Colosseum via a live video link from his private chapel at the Vatican. A1

NATIONAL A7-10;14

Ranks of Protesters Grow Outside Schiavo Hospice
As Terri Schiavo lay dying, two more last-ditch legal appeals wound through the courts and the sense that this religious and political drama was coming to a grim conclusion. A8

Terri Schiavo's husband and parents once shared a life, but now they can't even agree on what to do with her remains once she dies. A1

Killer's Family Has Questions
The family of Jeff Weise, the Minnesota teenager who killed nine people and then himself on Monday, say they wonder about the drugs he was prescribed for depression. A7

Blast Linked to Chemical Leak
The refinery blast in Texas that killed 15 people was probably caused by a leak of two flammable chemicals, a member of a federal chemical safety agency said. A10

Problems With Passenger Data
The Transportation Security Administration did not adequately monitor at least six airlines' transfer of sensitive passenger information to private companies and federal agencies in 2002 and 2003, according to a government report. A14

Colorado Professor Keeps Job
A University of Colorado professor cannot be fired for controversial opinions like his comparison of some victims of the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attack to Nazis, the university said in a report. A9

American Farming Dreams
A new generation of large animal farms, many owned by Dutch immigrants, have arrived in the Midwest and are pumping money into rural economies but are also drawing protests from environmental groups and homeowners concerned about water pollution, odors and land values. A7

Beliefs A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Kidney Ills Linked to Farm Fairs
Fifteen people in Florida who visited agricultural fairs recently have developed a life-threatening kidney disease or are infected with bacteria that can cause it, officials said. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Subway Delays Increase Despite Improvements
An analysis of delays on the New York City subway system indicates that after years of improvements, the number of significant delays has started to increase over the last 18 months. The trend has raised concerns among some transit experts that service improvements achieved over the last decade may be difficult to sustain. A1

Tales Behind a Stadium Deal
The story of how six developers joined the effort by the New York Jets to build a West Side stadium, is, in a city of cutthroat real estate deals, a mix of Olympic enthusiasm, commercial self-interest and politics. B1

Jersey City to Get Curfew
A curfew will be imposed on more than 130 businesses in Jersey City, N.J., in the belief that shutting these restaurants, convenience stores and barbershops will curtail crime and vagrancy in a city going through what some call a crime crisis. B1

A Budget Deal in Albany
The State Sentate and Assembly reached a budget deal that would increase spending by more than $1 billion over Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal. But political and constitutional questions still exist as the state struggles to enact a budget by next week's deadline. B3

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES C6

ARTS B7-16

No Broadway 'Charity'
The producers of a planned revival of the 1966 musical ''Sweet Charity,'' which has experienced much backstage drama since it lost its leading lady to an injury two weeks ago, said they were canceling its Broadway run. The news came just a day after the production opened to lackluster reviews in Boston, where it was playing a tryout run. It was to have opened April 21 at the Al Hirschfeld Theater. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-5

Wal-Mart Director Resigns
Thomas M. Coughlin, who recently retired as vice chairman of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., resigned from the company's board after the company raised questions about his knowledge of fraudulent expense reports and invoices. C1

Deciding an Ex-Chief's Fate
The directors of the American International Group, the insurance giant whose transactions are under investigation, are nearing a decision to cut all of the company's ties to Maurice R. Greenberg, its former chief executive, according to two people briefed on the board's deliberations. A1

Blockbuster Drops Bid
Blockbuster Inc., the video rental giant, dropped its bid to acquire the Hollywood Entertainment Corporation the second-largest video rental chain, citing the likelihood that the Federal Trade Commission would reject the deal on antitrust grounds. C1

Groups Bid for Telecom Unit
Two groups of investors made offers for control of Wind, the telecommunications arm of Enel, Italy's biggest utility. Italian officials have valued the entire business at 13 billion euros ($16.8 billion), setting the stage for one of Europe's largest leveraged buyouts. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Add-on accounts add no value; the U.N. fights for its future; Tina Rosenberg on doctors and painkillers.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B6
Crossword B16
TV Listings D8
Weather D6


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MURDER (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (74%); HOSPICE (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); NEGLIGENCE (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); RELIGION (67%); EASTER SEASON (62%); JUVENILE CRIME (50%); APPEALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HOLY SEE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



550 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Physicist, 85, Is Killed in a Hit-and-Run Accident

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE and ANN FARMER

 BODY:
An 85-year-old Russian-born physicist was killed by a hit-and-run driver yesterday during his early-morning jog in Coney Island, the police said. The physicist, Ilya Aptekar, was crossing Cropsey Avenue at Bay Parkway about 5:20 a.m., witnesses told the police, when he was struck by a westbound car. Witnesses described the car as a large dark-colored sedan, perhaps burgundy or dark green, and either a Ford Crown Victoria or Mercury Grand Marquis. Witnesses also said that Mr. Aptekar was crossing with the light, according to an investigator. 
 Neighborhood residents said that many accidents had happened at that intersection. ''It's a terrible corner,'' said Phil Grande, 43, an unemployed flooring worker who lives at the crossing where the accident took place. ''I'm scared to stand there,'' he said.
 Mr. Aptekar, a 1946 graduate of Leningrad University, specialized in solid-state physics. He had worked at the Institute of Solid State Physics in Chernogolovka, Russia, according to his family, and had made discoveries in the area of superconductivity. At the time of his death, he was writing a book on high-temperature superconductivity.
 ''He wanted to pass on his scientific information,'' said his son, Leonid Aptekar, 55, a computer programmer. ''He believed that scientific people could change the world and make it better.'' 
 With his lively mind, Mr. Aptekar was frustrated that there were few people with whom he could share his scientific work, his family said. He resorted to expounding his theories to his son, who says he grasped only part of them.
 Mr. Aptekar was born in Ukraine, and moved to the United States in 1991 after his wife died. ''Initially it was hard to adjust,'' said his grandson, Michael Aptekar, 25. But things improved when Mr. Aptekar got his own apartment, a studio at the Subbotnick House Senior Center. ''Once he moved, he bloomed,'' Michael said. 
 Mr. Aptekar found pleasure in his daily rituals, his family said. He woke up every morning around 3, and went jogging around 4 to Bensonhurst Park, about a mile from his apartment. He learned to surf the Internet and devoured vast amounts of scientific literature. He became close to a woman in the neighborhood, a former doctor a few years younger than he. 
 Mr. Aptekar kept a fastidious diary of his life, his family said. His last entry, made at 4 a.m. yesterday before he went jogging, was: ''Read Science magazine.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a hit-and-run accident in Brooklyn that killed an 85-year-old Russian physicist misidentified the neighborhood where it occurred. It was Bath Beach, not Coney Island.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ilya Aptekar was killed during his morning jog in Coney Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIT & RUN (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (91%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); SEDANS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); WRITERS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



551 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; COLLEGE BASKETBALL: CHICAGO REGIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Not the First One You Think Of

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: ROSEMONT, Ill., March 25 

 BODY:
He was overlooked in high school because of his backcourt mate, Bracey Wright, who went on to star at Indiana. He might have ended up at North Carolina, but the Tar Heels decided Raymond Felton had more upside. He was bound for Kansas until the Jayhawks signed Aaron Miles. When Georgia Tech signed Jarrett Jack, he was once more left at the altar.
 So Deron Williams was accustomed to performing downstage when he landed at Illinois in 2002 to join a backcourt troupe already heavy on star power. The Illini's top recruit that year, Dee Brown, was a speedy Chicago legend known as the Human Fast Break. Luther Head was a sophomore and one of the most famous graduates of the city's storied Public League. 
 Still, Williams, a 6-foot-3 point guard, left The Colony, Tex., for Illinois. And as he has sublimated his ego even deeper, he has led the Illini to a 35-1 record as the top-seeded team in the N.C.A.A. tournament and now a place in the Chicago Regional final on Saturday night against Arizona (30-6).
 It is Brown who lands enough magazine covers that Illini Coach Bruce Weber calls him the ''poster boy of Illinois basketball.'' It is the soft-spoken Head who puts up the big numbers. But if the public overlooks Williams, the people who matter most revere him: his coach and his teammates.
 ''He doesn't mind being in Dee's shadow or even in Luther's,'' Weber said. ''I kind of teased him the other day because Dee made second-team all-American and Luther made third, and I said, 'You should really be there.' He said, 'I know that's all right, Coach, I don't have good-enough numbers.'
 ''They all three complement each, but you need somebody steering the boat, and Deron steers our boat.''
 Williams's command of his team was never so apparent as in Illinois's 77-63 victory over Wisconsin-Milwaukee in the regional semifinals on Thursday night. While Head was nursing a sore hamstring and was uncharacteristically troubled shooting the ball, Williams methodically made one good decision after another, finding the open man for eight assists and making 8 of 12 shots while scoring 21 points.
 ''What was impressive is that he had the ball all the time and he never made a mistake about what to do with it,'' Wisconsin-Milwaukee's Joah Tucker said. 
 Williams, Brown and Head are diverse personalities who have bonded over arguments over topics like basketball, video games and the love or loathing of reptiles. Williams has a dry wit and Brown is voluble; both are juniors, and they spend an inordinate amount of time trying to rattle Head, a senior. 
 But Head is a stoic who is as economical with his words as he is with his compact midrange jumper. Williams and Brown giggled from the podium Friday when reporters tried to grill Head about the severity of his injury.
 Asked how his hamstring felt, Head's reply was succinct: ''O.K.'' 
 What had he been doing for it? ''Just relaxing,'' he said.
 Would he play against Arizona? ''Yes.''
 Williams and Brown learned each other's quirks as roommates in their freshman and sophomore years. Williams bristled at Brown's penchant for late-night video games to a soundtrack of loud music. Brown lived in fear of the two pythons and the boa constrictor Williams kept as pets.
 Still, Brown and Head get annoyed at the suggestion that they have relegated Williams to a back-seat role over the course of Illinois's finest basketball season. While Head is averaging 15.6 points (a team high) and 3.9 assists and Brown adds 13.4 points and 4.4 assists, Williams is averaging 12.4 points and 6.6 assists.
 ''I don't know how anyone can ignore the 12 points and 6 assists he gave us this year, or our record,'' Head said.
 And Brown seemed genuinely hurt that Williams was not recognized as a first-teamer on any all-American teams. 
 ''We're best friends, and everything is love around here; a lot of teams aren't like that,'' Brown said. ''Deron is not overshadowed. He's a superstar. I was disappointed one of us Illinois guys weren't on the first-team all-American for what we accomplished as a team. Deron should be on the first team for what he did for us. I tell you what, he will be rewarded down the road.'' 
 But Williams remains philosophical about how he landed at Illinois and how he will ultimately be judged. He might have started his college career as a runner-up in the recruiting sweepstakes, but he is hoping that by joining the Illini as third fiddle, he will eventually end up on top. 
 ''You can say it was destiny that brought me here,'' Williams said. ''And I'm O.K. with that. I may not be the guy making all the shots or getting all the assists. But I make my fair share of important baskets, and I'm usually the guy making the pass that leads to the assist. Point guards get judged by winning, and I think I have a pretty good record there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deron Williams has always been overshadowed by bigger stars. But he said he was content with making key plays, like this blocked shot against Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Thursday night. (Photographs by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); ATHLETES (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA TECH UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



552 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Turns to Leak as Probable Cause of Texas Blast

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: TEXAS CITY, Tex., March 25 

 BODY:
The refinery blast here that killed 15 people on Wednesday and injured 100 more was probably caused by a leak of two flammable chemicals that are found in crude oil and reworked at the refinery to make ingredients of gasoline, a member of a federal chemical safety agency said on Friday evening.
 The cause of the leak is unknown, and investigators are looking for the source. They are also highly concerned about the unusually high death toll in the resulting explosion. The federal official, John Bresland, a member of the United States Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, speaking soon after the investigators got their first tour of the periphery of the blast zone, said another important issue was why a temporary office trailer, in which several people died, had been so close, and whether brick structures should have been used instead. Mr. Bresland estimated that the trailer was 50 yards from the blast site. 
 Mr. Bresland said that investigators' initial tour was limited to a drive around the blast zone and that they were not allowed to get out of the car, ''which was fine with me, for safety reasons.'' 
 The unusual nature of the death toll was emphasized on Friday morning when the Galveston County Medical Examiner released the identities of all 15 of the dead. Of those killed, 11 worked for a company that was servicing a different part of the refinery entirely. Many of the victims did not fit the typical profile of refinery workers, with more than half in their 50's and 60's, and four of them women.
 The office trailers are used for safety briefings, progress meetings and consultation among supervisors on the 12-hour shifts, according to people familiar with the refinery. Bill Stephens, a spokesman for BP, which owns the refinery, said that the decision on where to place such trailers ''would be a big part of the investigation, I'm sure.'' 
 A Houston lawyer representing several of the injured, Terry Bryant, said that that decision could also figure into determining how responsibility for the deaths is apportioned. ''Given the history of the plant, it would be a good idea to put it as far away from the explosives as they could,'' he said, referring to the trailer. 
 Mr. Bryant is part of a group of plaintiffs' lawyers who won a temporary restraining order on Thursday from Judge Susan Criss of District Court barring BP or other private companies from altering or destroying evidence, although it allows for steps necessary for safety in the blast zone.
 BP said on Friday that it was assembling a team of investigators, senior personnel gathered mostly from other refineries. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, an advisory agency chartered by the federal government, were also investigating. None predicted early results. 
 In fact, a spokeswoman in the Dallas regional office of OSHA, Diana Petterson, said she was not certain that a cause of the accident would be found. ''No. 1 is to try to figure out what violations there were that could have caused this accident,'' she said, explaining that her agency would then issue fines for those violations. But ''to say these violations actually caused this accident, we don't know yet,'' she said.
 The chemical safety board, which is modeled on the National Transportation Safety Board, plans a ''root cause'' analysis from which it will develop recommendations it can make to other refineries and similar plants. 
 While the cause remained unclear, the broad circumstances were obvious to experts. The explosion took place in a part of the refinery that was in the late stages of a three-week shutdown for maintenance and refurbishment, its first in approximately two years. Experts say refineries are safer when they are running than when they are shut down or just starting up.
 ''It is a more dangerous period because of the high level of activity going on,'' said Stephen Selk, investigations manager at the chemical safety board. ''Equipment is being opened. We are potentially exposing flammable materials to air. Also, we are engaging in maintenance operations, and welding, cutting and grinding and use of power tools are all possible sources of ignition.''
 Some parts of refineries may run nonstop for three to five years, refinery experts say, and when they shut, numerous workers are brought in to do intensive servicing.
 The shutdown periods are kept as brief as possible, especially in the past few years, when the difference between the cost of crude oil and the value of gasoline and other products has been large, making profits strong. While the pressure to complete the work is intense, with planning often taking months, refinery experts said there are also good reasons not to cut corners.
 ''Nobody in their right mind is going to run an operation that's shoddy with respect to safety and risk,'' said a longtime refinery expert who insisted that he did not want his name to appear in an article about a fatal accident. In addition to the threat to human life, he said, ''economically you wouldn't do it'' because of the threat of months of lost production. 
 The area of the Texas City refinery where the explosion occurred took naptha, a natural component of crude oil that is isolated by distillation, and converted it to other chemicals in pressurized vessels under high temperature.
 For the past 15 years, federal officials have been trying to make refineries safer. In 1992, OSHA established a Process Safety Management Rule, which requires systematic assessments of hazards, and training of employees and contractors, among other steps.
 The success of the rule is not clear, though. The agency tracks the number of violations of the rule that it records, by year, but for the last few years there is no pattern; for the fiscal year that ended last Sept. 30, there were 46 violations, compared with 36 in the prior year and 83 in the year before that.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a refinery explosion that killed 15 people in Texas City, Tex., gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of a spokesman for BP, which owns the refinery. He is Bill Stephens, not Stevens.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A member of a chemical safety agency says the explosion at a refinery in Texas City, Tex., on Wednesday was probably caused by a leak. (Photo by William Philpott/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); EVIDENCE (87%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); EXPLOSIVES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (69%); LAWYERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



553 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM FESTIVAL REVIEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: A Global View of Human Experience That Tells Some of the Stories Behind the News

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
As foreign-language films that appear in the United States are increasingly marginalized by the Hollywood-dominated marketplace, a festival like New Directors/New Films -- a joint presentation of the Museum of Modern Art and the Film Society of Lincoln Center -- becomes one of the few cinematic expressions of a global perspective. A movie like ''Live-In Maid'' humanizes an economic crisis in Argentina that for most people is just a bunch of facts and figures in a newspaper article or a one-minute clip on television. The scary documentary ''Darwin's Nightmare'' portrays a world teetering on the brink of catastrophe in which, like it or not, international trade and transportation connect everyone. ''Young Rebels,'' a modest documentary about the Cuban rap scene, shows the consequences of Communism and the longstanding United States trade embargo on this tiny island nation. An immersion in New Directors/New Films is one way to develop a perspective on the human experience that transcends international power politics and commerce. STEPHEN HOLDEN


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Norma Aleandro, left, and Norma Argentina in Jorge Gaggero's ''Live-In Maid''
above, a scene from Hubert Sauper's documentary ''Darwin's Nightmare''
 right, Gianluca Di Gennaro, center, and associates in Andrea and Antonio Frazzi's ''Certi Bambini.'' (Photographs by Film Society of Lincoln Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2005



554 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Italy to Sell Another Stake in Enel, Its Biggest Utility

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN, March 25 

 BODY:
The Italian government will sell a 5.2 billion euro stake ($6.7 billion) in Enel, the biggest utility here, to reduce the country's staggering debt.
 The finance ministry said late Thursday that it would lower its stake in Enel to about 20 percent from a 31.5 percent stake by selling shares to Italian and foreign investment funds, as well as individual investors, by the end of September.
 Silvio Berlusconi, the prime minister, has promised to lower the country's debt, which is now equal to more than a year of gross domestic product. He has been unable to do so, however, as the country struggles with higher oil prices and a strengthening euro. 
 The economy shrank in the fourth quarter and grew just 1 percent in 2004, less than half the average of countries in the euro currency zone. Italy owes more money than any other country in the world except the United States and Japan, which both have much bigger economies.
 Mr. Berlusconi has planned 100 billion euros ($129.5 billion) in asset sales by 2008, but first he needs to be re-elected next year. As he tries to cut debt and prime the economy ahead of the election, there are several other government companies that could be sold, among them the postal service Alitalia, the military contractor Finmeccanica and Eni, the oil company.
 ''It is not possible to generalize with the future asset sales,'' said Alessandro Frigerio, a fund manager with Pigoli Consulenza. ''Some are likely to be successful, while others are going to be much harder for the government to pull off.'' 
 Alitalia, he said, ''is a hot potato, and the more time passes the harder it gets for the government to clean up the situation.''
 ''But the market,'' he continued, ''is anxiously awaiting the postal service and that could be a big success like Deutsche Post was in Germany.''
 This is the fourth sale of stock in Enel since the company went public. It was 100 percent state-owned before an initial public offering in 1999 raised 16.6 billion euros ($21.5 billion). In its most recent sale of Enel, in October, the government raised 7.6 billion euros. Enel, which produces and distributes about half of Italy's electricity and had sales last year of 36.5 billion euros, has a market value of 45 billion euros.
 Besides selling chunks of Enel shares, the easiest way for the government to monetize its holding in the utility has been to have it pay high dividends. That policy will continue and may accelerate once Enel negotiates the sale of its telecommunications unit, Wind.
 In a televised interview Friday, Paolo Scaroni, Enel's chief executive, said his goal had been to make the company's stock a ''safe haven.'' That plays well to Italian investors, many of whom were affected in the last two years by the bankruptcies of Parmalat and other companies.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Enel worker at a hydroelectric plant near Rome. The Italian government said that it would lower its stake in the utility to about 20 percent from a 31.5 percent stake through a sale of shares by the end of September. (Photo by Chris Warde-Jones/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); POSTAL SERVICE (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENEL SPA (92%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (58%)

TICKER: ENEL (BIT) (92%); DPW (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (58%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (58%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) ITALY (96%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



555 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: U.S. IS SET TO SELL JETS TO PAKISTAN; INDIA IS CRITICAL

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25 

 BODY:
The United States will sell F-16 jet fighters to Pakistan in a deal that State Department officials said Friday would improve regional security. But the decision was immediately denounced by India as adding a fresh element of instability to relations between the nuclear neighbors.
 The size of the arms sale has not been decided, State Department officials said, although Pakistan previously said it was seeking about two dozen of the planes, which can be used in ground or air attack roles and have a maximum range of more than 2,000 miles.
 President Bush personally telephoned Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India early Friday to inform him of the decision to sell F-16's to Pakistan, White House officials said.
 In words apparently meant to soften the impact of a major weapons transfer to India's rival, Mr. Bush said the administration had also cleared the way for India to discuss a combat aircraft purchase with American arms manufacturers. 
 Mr. Bush, speaking from his Texas ranch, told the Indian prime minister that the United States was ''responding'' to New Delhi's request for information on ''multirole combat aircraft,'' according to White House officials. 
 The possibility of the F-16 sale to Pakistan had been hinted at by people in the administration and was reported by The Wall Street Journal this month before Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited India and Pakistan.
 Even so, Mr. Singh told Mr. Bush of his ''great disappointment'' over the pending arms sale and warned that it would undermine regional security, according to Sanjaya Baru, the prime minister's spokesman, as quoted by The Associated Press from India.
 Relations between India and Pakistan remain tenuous and bitter. They have fought three wars, mostly over the Kashmir territory, and now both nations have nuclear arms. Still, they are committed to off-and-on peace talks. And in an important step, the Pakistani president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, has promised to visit India for a cricket match between teams from the countries early next month. 
 The F-16 is valued for its ability to take on a variety of missions, including delivering precise airstrikes. In that role, it has been used extensively in Afghanistan and Iraq to attack suspected insurgent hiding places, and Pakistan has said it would use the plane to strike at terrorists. 
 The fighters to be sold to Pakistan may be newer models off the production line, and not the older variant purchased by Pakistan in the 1980's. In 1990, it ordered more, but delivery was blocked when Congress passed legislation to punish the Pakistanis for their ambitions to develop nuclear weapons. 
 State Department officials said the purchase price would be unknown until a formal agreement is reached on which model of the fighter will be sold, and how it will be equipped. The F-16C/D models purchased by the United States Air Force from the Lockheed Martin Corporation in 1998, for example, cost $18.8 million each, though exported versions of the plane typically cost more. 
 The arms sale is seen as reward for cooperation in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, when Pakistan opened its territory as a crucial portal into neighboring Afghanistan during the war to topple the Taliban government and oust fighters of Al Qaeda. Even so, some military analysts complain that Pakistan is not doing enough today to hunt down insurgents and terrorists still seeking refuge in the mountainous areas of Pakistan just across the Afghan border.
 The Bush administration has also chosen to overlook or play down other irritants, including what some officials say has been a lack of cooperation in investigating the nuclear black-market network run by A.Q. Khan, a Pakistani scientist, and the slowness of General Musharraf to return his country to democracy.
 State Department officials explained that the arms sale fit into the broader strategic relationship across South Asia. ''We are looking to improve security and improve prosperity and improve development of the entire region as a whole through an integrated program of engagement,'' Adam Ereli, the State Department deputy spokesman, said at a news briefing Friday afternoon.
 ''And that engagement includes security, it includes energy, it includes economy, it includes diplomacy, politics,'' he said. ''And part of that is a decision to begin negotiations with the Pakistani government and Congress to sell F-16's to Pakistan and to respond favorably to a request for information from India for the possible sale of multirole combat aircraft.''
 Mr. Ereli said that ''relations between India and Pakistan have never been better,'' and that ''to the extent that we can contribute to Pakistan's sense of security and India's sense of security, that will contribute to regional stability.''
 Pakistan has the older F-16's already in its arsenal, and has been lobbying to buy more for years. As one reward for its assistance after Sept. 11, the United States began selling Pakistan spare parts for those older planes.
 India, on the other hand, has been buying its fighters elsewhere, but American companies are lobbying to get into the Indian arms market.
 Like most newer-generation strike jets, the F-16 can carry nuclear weapons. But State Department officials denied that sales of advanced aircraft to the two countries would increase the ability of either to deliver nuclear weapons across their shared border, citing the fact that both countries have tested medium-range missiles capable of carrying warheads.
 But Larry Pressler, a former Republican senator from South Dakota who gave his name to the amendment that halted the F-16 transfers to Pakistan in the 1990's, said Friday that the decision to go ahead with the jet-fighter deal ''is a mistake.''
 ''I know that we want to be friends with Pakistan because of the terrorism thing, but you don't fight terrorism with F-16's,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''F-16's are capable of nuclear delivery. That's about the only reason Pakistan wants them. The only people they are in a fight with are in India. India now will have to get the same thing somehow. So it raises tensions and stakes without meeting any of our objectives.''
 The United States wants several things from Pakistan, and the sale of F-16's could more tightly bind the two nations. In particular, Washington wants more help in unraveling the Khan nuclear network, particularly its assistance to Iran and North Korea. But a State Department official said there was no quid pro quo with the arms deal.
 A senior administration official also said the United States wanted more signs of democratization, including a decision by General Musharraf to surrender his military position as a sign of relinquishing some of his consolidated power.
 In part to mollify India, Secretary Rice made a point of lauding India's leaders for its help with Southeast Asian tsunami relief, and she insisted during her visit to the region last week that the United States would join India in a larger strategic partnership. She also expressed hope to leaders of both countries that they would work with each other to peacefully resolve their dispute over Kashmir. 
 Senior officials said Friday that the United States was trying to balance the arms sale to Pakistan by animating ''the strategic dialogue'' with India that would emphasize that nation's role as ''a world power.''
 ''We are comfortable that we have a kind of concerted approach in which neither side feels that we are acting or taking steps to undermine the relations that we have and compromise their interests,'' a senior State Department official said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Saturday about the United States' decision to sell F-16 jet fighters to Pakistan referred incompletely to earlier reports of it. While The Wall Street Journal indeed covered it earlier in the month, the deal was first reported by The Dallas Morning News three days earlier, on March 12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); CRICKET (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



556 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Hints He'll Turn Over Centrifuges in Iran Investigation

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, March 25 

 BODY:
President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan says he will consider turning over centrifuges to the international nuclear watchdog agency to aid in its investigation of Iran's nuclear program. 
 The centrifuges could help the group, the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency, determine whether the traces of highly enriched, weapons grade uranium found on nuclear equipment in Iran originated in Iran or, as Tehran maintains, arrived in a contaminated shipment of centrifuges from Pakistan. 
 Earlier this month, Pakistan acknowledged for the first time that Dr. A.Q. Khan, the country's most celebrated nuclear scientist and a one-man nuclear black market, had sold centrifuges to Iran, but said he had done so independently and without the consent of the government. 
 International diplomats have said that Pakistan privately agreed months ago to turn the centrifuges over to the agency but had been dragging its feet. In an interview broadcast Thursday on a private television network called Aaj, General Musharraf seemed to say the delays would stop.
 ''To end the issue once and for all we want to send nuclear centrifuges to Vienna for inspection, and the matter is under consideration,'' he was quoted as saying in a report on the interview published Friday in an English-language daily, Dawn. 
 Centrifuges are used to enrich uranium, which may then serve as a source of fuel for nuclear power plants or for weapons, though weapons-grade uranium is far more concentrated. Iran has maintained that it has the right to enrich uranium for use in power plants, but Washington contends that it is using its peaceful nuclear activities to obscure its weapons-making program. 
 Pakistan, a key ally in the United States' war on terror, has in the past acknowledged that Dr. Khan smuggled nuclear secrets to North Korea, Iran and Libya. On television last year, Dr. Khan admitted to having spread Pakistan's nuclear technology, issued an apology but offered no details on what he had sold to whom.
 Pardoned by General Musharraf, he now lives in a closely guarded house in the capital. Bush administration officials, as well as the Musharraf government, say they believe Dr. Khan's illicit network has been dismantled.
 ''Dr. A.Q. Khan was involved in nuclear proliferation to Iran,'' General Musharraf said in the interview. ''It is unfortunate. But now he is living a quiet life and in no way involved in any network.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRIFUGES (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005



557 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: March 27, 2005; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1269 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	4	Honeymoon, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An F.B.I. agent who is investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	 	 2	2	2	The Rising, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $25.99.) The Prince of Darkness chooses a Romanian woman to be the mother of the Antichrist.		 	 	 	 3	3	2	Impossible, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.		 	 	 	 4	4	9	The Broker, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	 	 5	5	104	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 6		1	Cold Service, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) The Boston private eye Spenser seeks revenge on Ukrainian gangsters after his friend Hawk is critically injured by a sniper's bullets.		 	 	 	 7	6	77	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died while trying to rescue a little girl from danger discovers that all will be explained to him in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 8	7	2	Vanishing Acts, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $25.) A woman who undertakes search-and-rescue missions in rural New Hampshire discovers that she herself has been a missing person for nearly 30 years.		 	 	 	 9	9	6	Prep, by Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $21.95.) A scholarship student from South Bend, Ind., encounters a world of privilege when she attends an expensive boarding school in Massachusetts.		 	 	 	 10	8	3	Prince of Fire, by Daniel Silva. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gabriel Allon, an art restorer and an occasional spy for the Israeli secret service, investigates a terrorist bombing in Rome.		 	 	 	 11	10	2	Shadow of the Giant, by Orson Scott Card. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $25.95.) The latest entry in the ''Ender'' science fiction series.		 	 	 	 12	13	4	The Forgotten Man, by Robert Crais. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The Los Angeles private eye Elvis Cole searches for the truth about his father.		 	 	 	 13		2	Ireland, by Frank Delaney. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Inspired by an itinerant storyteller, a boy immerses himself in the history and mythology of his country.		 	 	 	 14	12	14	State of Fear, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) Reverse eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public that global warming is real.		 	 	 	 15	16	2	Missing Persons, by Stephen White. (Dutton, $25.95.) The psychologist Alan Gregory looks for a young girl who has either run away or been abducted.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	2	Blood Brother, by Anne Bird. (ReganBooks/ HarperCollins, $25.95.) The long-lost half sister of Scott Peterson explains why she is convinced he is guilty of murder.		 	 	 	 2	2	9	Blink, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 1		3	A Deadly Game, by Catherine Crier with Cole Thompson. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $27.95.) A former judge and current Court TV analyst looks at the Scott Peterson case.		 	 	 	 4	4	2	Plan B, by Anne Lamott. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of ''Traveling Mercies'' meditates on personal and political matters and on the spiritual life.		 	 	 	 5	3	4	Juiced, by Jose Canseco. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) The former slugger talks about his life in baseball and, especially, his use of steroids.		 	 	 	 6	9	5	Men in Black, by Mark R. Levin. (Regnery, $27.95.) A lawyer and conservative commentator enumerates ways in which ''the Supreme Court is destroying America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 7	6	11	Collapse, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	 	 8	8	9	God's Politics, by Jim Wallis. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) An evangelical Christian argues that Democrats must ''take back the faith'' and not allow conservative Republicans to hijack the Bible. (+)		 	 	 	 9	5	25	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers a lavishly illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	 10	10	4	Disneywar, by James B. Stewart. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) A two-decade history of corporate infighting, by the author of ''Den of Thieves'' and ''Blood Sport.''		 	 	 	 11	11	6	Secrets & Mysteries of the World, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $19.95.) The self-proclaimed psychic tries to explain the inexplicable.		 	 	 	 12	12	7	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man, by John Perkins. (Berrett-Koehler, $24.95.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	 	 13	15	3	Perfect Madness, by Judith Warner. (Riverhead, $23.95.) An examination of modern motherhood and ''the age of anxiety.''		 	 	 	 14		4	*Smashed, by Koren Zailckas. (Viking, $21.95.) A young woman recalls her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.		 	 	 	 15	7	2	Taking Heat, by Ari Fleischer. (Morrow, $26.95.) A White House memoir by President Bush's former press secretary.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 12, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

DR. KING'S REFRIGERATOR: And Other Bedtime Stories, by Charles Johnson. (Scribner, $20.) Religion, philosophy and African magic realism enhance these short fiction performances.

SNOBS, by Julian Fellowes. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) A novel (his first) by the screenwriter of ''Gosford Park.'' Like the movie, it concerns the struggles of the upper class to stay upper.

GOD'S GYM, by John Edgar Wideman. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) The big-deal subjects (love, death, time) compounded in short stories.

THE GLASS CASTLE: A Memoir, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $25.) Walls and her three sibs, dragged all over the country by damaged parents, thought life a glorious adventure.

EVERY MAN A SPECULATOR: A History of Wall Street in American Life, by Steve Fraser. (HarperCollins, $29.95.) A tale more cultural than financial, exploiting the street as an enduring symbol in American life.

SATURDAY, by Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/ Doubleday, $26.) This novel traces a day off in the life of an English neurosurgeon who comes face to face with senseless violence.

BLOCKBUSTER: How Hollywood Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Summer, by Tom Shone. (Free Press, $26.) THE BIG PICTURE: The New Logic of Money and Power in Hollywood, by Edward Jay Epstein. (Random House, $25.95.) Two assessments of how the movies make big profits without entertaining anyone.

WHO THE HELL'S IN IT: Portraits and Conversations, by Peter Bogdanovich. (Knopf, $35.) Star profiles by a writer who knows the movies and really knows how to love.

DARK HERO OF THE INFORMATION AGE: In Search of Norbert Wiener, the Father of Cybernetics, by Flo Conway and Jim Siegelman. (Basic Books, $27.50.) The great pioneer of information science whose personal life was a mess.

HUSBAND OF A FANATIC: A Personal Journey Through India, Pakistan, Love, and Hate, by Amitava Kumar. (New Press, $24.95.) Ruminations on the deadly religious hatreds of India.

The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (89%); MISSING PERSONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); ESPIONAGE (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); ECOTERRORISM (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); BOMBINGS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); MURDER (57%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); MITCH ALBOM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



558 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Hopping Down the Money Trail

BYLINE: By Steve Fraser. 
Steve Fraser is the author of ''Every Man a Speculator: A History of Wall Street in American Life.''

 BODY:

CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS
A True Story.
By Kurt Eichenwald.
742 pp. Broadway Books. $26.
 ''ENRONIZATION'' was a new noun that entered the national vocabulary sometime in the months at the end of 2001 and the beginning of 2002. It was bad enough that one of the country's largest energy companies went bankrupt, bringing down with it a premier accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, while some of the top executives of both businesses were hauled away in handcuffs. But Enron's collapse was followed by others -- WorldCom, Tyco, Global Crossing, Adelphia -- shadowed by the same suspicions of corporate criminality. As the cascade continued, what started as the story of one company's undoing seemed to have transmuted into an epidemic of business malfeasance.
 Enron became emblematic of managerial greed, flagrant conflict of interest and callous disregard for the well-being of the thousands of employees and shareholders who, in good faith, had invested their sweat and equity in the company's operations; and that's not to mention, in the case of California, a whole citizenry denied electrical power. It seemed to signify that the upper reaches of corporate America were addicted to speculation and to a single-minded determination to ramp up stock prices no matter what. Because some of the principals involved enjoyed access to the highest circles of political power, their rise and fall suggested an element of crony capitalism. Finally, what had actually gone on appeared utterly incomprehensible to the average mortal. The financial and accounting shenanigans were so complex that trying to make sense of them was a little like probing the mysteries of quantum theory. And so Enron became ''Enronization,'' a dark moment in American corporate history.
 ''Conspiracy of Fools,'' Kurt Eichenwald's meticulous dissection of the Enron story, tries to unravel the complexity and at the same time to see it large. He doesn't fully succeed on either count, though that's not to say the book isn't worth reading. It is. Eichenwald, a correspondent for The New York Times, has accomplished a prodigious feat of reporting. He seems to have uncovered every surviving memo (despite the orgy of document shredding and deleting of e-mail messages that went on at both Arthur Andersen and Enron in the final days). He has also elicited candid revelations from many of the front-line executives, lawyers, accountants and investigators, and doggedly followed the money trail down all its byways, an achievement that in itself commands admiration. Moreover, his writing is reader-friendly. He manages to convey a sense of the dizzying confusion and nerve-racking tension that infused the company years before it fell. The narrative is broken up into short, cinematic takes, each a study in corporate stress, humiliation, envy and macho preening. All this helps make what is, after all, a story about accounting go down easily.
 Still, what the Enron executives and Andersen accountants were actually doing remains opaque. Eichenwald's decision to atomize the tale into hundreds of fragments leaves it up to the reader to pull them together, a task that won't be easy unless one has an advanced degree in accounting. 
 Enron was once upon a time just an obscure pipeline company. Soon enough, it was doing deals all over the world, more as trades than investments, in water, power plants, telecommunications and so on. These deals and the accounting gyrations that accompanied them appear and reappear in Eichenwald's vignettes, but he doesn't establish enough distance nor does he take enough time to explain how they all interconnect.
 The book begins with a promise that it's going to tell the reader something fundamental about this recent moment in American business history, but that theme is soon abandoned. Implicitly, Eichenwald argues that the Enron story is less an account of criminality than of gross incompetence, a ''conspiracy of fools'' in a corporate environment grown so complicated and so given over to the imperative of enhancing share values that no one really understood what was going on. In this telling, complexity itself becomes exculpatory. Thus Kenneth Lay, Enron's chief executive officer, and Jeffrey Skilling, Lay's handpicked successor, come across as unwitting dupes of the nefarious machinations of the company's chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow, and his accomplices. Yet Eichenwald diligently records all the many early warning signs coming from various echelons of Enron's bureaucracy that something was amiss; indeed that is one of the strengths of the book. But with so many alarm bells going off, it is hard to take seriously Eichenwald's picture of ignorance. Directors of corporations are known for using board meetings to catch up on their sleep, but that the people actually charged with running the company had succumbed to a Rip van Winkle doze lasting years strains credulity. 
 Whether they did or not, certainly there is more to be made of ''Enronization'' than is found in these pages. Incompetence, greed and criminality are hardly new features on the business landscape. What is new, at least when measured against 200 years of economic history, is a world in which trading is considered sexy while investing is thought of as boring, a Wall Street-driven mentality in which the only value that matters is shareholder value. Enron was a classic case of a business floating free of its homely origins to become a vertiginous, virtual superstructure of paper entrepreneurialism, dabbling in businesses it knew next to nothing about. The dangers here are clear, and it's time to ask at what point ignorance itself should be considered criminal, not only for top management but for that often all-too-clubby group of corporate directors who are supposed to be monitoring what management is doing. After all, the stakes are enormous. For example, corporate insiders of the leading bankrupted companies have made off with $3.3 billion in stock sales, bonuses and other forms of compensation as their firms went belly up. At the same time, these managers colluded with Wall Street firms that collected huge sums in underwriting fees recommending the stock of companies they should have known to be in financial trouble.
 Personal liability, however, only grazes the surface of ''Enronization.'' The phenomenon should force us to reckon with the larger issue: that an economy so singularly driven by finance and speculative trading may generate overwhelming pressures systematically to cook the books in order to sustain artificial values on the stock market. That is, ''Enronization'' should cause us to re-examine the corporation as a public institution, one that ought to be subject to more, not less, regulation. Conventional wisdom to the contrary, shareholders are by no means the only constituency that counts. The economic reach and power of companies like Enron affect everyone -- employees, suppliers, customers, whole communities and regions. ''Enronization'' suggests that beyond the matter of determining personal responsibility lies the trickier terrain of policing institutional behavior. Otherwise, we can be certain that more Enrons are headed our way. 
 For Eichenwald the Enron story is an affirmation of the free market because the company was in the end driven under by its bad business decisions. By that logic the Great Depression was the ultimate vindication of free market orthodoxy.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Neimann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); POLITICS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); MISCONDUCT (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); PHYSICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



559 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: The Survivor and the Survivalist

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER. 
Liesl Schillinger is an arts editor at The New Yorker and a regular contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:

A Changed Man
By Francine Prose.
421 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
 LATE in 1992, Ingo Hasselbach, an East German skinhead who moved to West Berlin in 1989 and founded the united Germany's first neo-Nazi group, had a change of heart. ''I'd like to get out of the scene, but I don't have a clue how to do it,'' he told an old friend, as he recalled in his memoir, ''Fuhrer-Ex.'' At first, neither his former Kameraden nor the authorities believed in his conversion. Tall and blond, with a history of ''Clockwork Orange''-style ultraviolence, Hasselbach made an effective mascot for white supremacy, and his audience resisted his attempt to ditch the role. Ironically, one of the first to take his repentance seriously was Ignatz Bubis, the leader of Germany's Jewish community -- the first Jew this onetime anti-Semite had ever met. The two had a heart-to-heart talk, and afterward Hasselbach marveled, ''There was someone who understood me after all.''
 The point of this lengthy preamble is to establish that the protagonist of Francine Prose's powerful, funny and exquisitely nuanced new novel, ''A Changed Man'' -- an American ex-neo-Nazi who enlists a Jewish human rights leader to help mend his ways -- is not a preposterous invention. He's someone who not only could exist but in many ways already does.
 Prose's creation, Vincent Nolan, is a disenchanted member of the American Rights Movement (a k a ARM, or the Aryan Resistance Movement), a 32-year-old loser from upstate New York. Bumped from his hamster-wheel rotation of skinhead idees fixes by a harmonious tab of Ecstasy, ''pink as a kitten's tongue,'' Nolan impulsively heads for Manhattan in a Chevy pickup stolen from his ARM-thug cousin, Raymond. The dowry Nolan brings to his new life is skimpy: a resume that reads like a chapter from Barbara Ehrenreich's ''Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America,'' a copy of ''Crime and Punishment,'' some swag swiped from his cousin (Xanax, Vicodin and a copy of Soldier of Fortune magazine) and, on his arm, tattoos of SS lightning bolts and a death's-head. All the same, Nolan has something invisible but substantive to offer: information on the structure and methods of his cousin's hate group.
 He has handpicked the recipient of his gift of knowledge: Meyer Maslow, the author (and subject) of a Holocaust survival chronicle called ''The Kindness of Strangers'' and the head of the World Brotherhood Watch Foundation, a prestigious philanthropic organization. Nolan has rehearsed the declaration he will make to Maslow, a stirringly simple cry for salvation: ''I want to help you guys save guys like me from becoming guys like me.''
 But Nolan hasn't asked himself a crucial question: what kind of guys are the people who work at World Brotherhood Watch? And might they need saving themselves? As Prose's novel shows, it's not only errant sons who could stand some reforming. The world is full of prodigals; some just have better cover than others. Admittedly, Nolan's is more meager than most, and his appearance at the foundation's headquarters spooks the receptionist, who eyes his terrorist-issue duffel and calls in a supervisor, Bonnie Kalen, for backup.
 As it happens, Meyer and Bonnie have been brainstorming about an impending crisis: their charity dinner is seriously undersold. How can they move hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of tickets in a matter of weeks -- especially when, in a ghoulish fluke, the night of their benefit coincides with the execution date of the Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh? ''I have a . . . funny feeling,'' Meyer tells Bonnie. ''Someone is coming. Something's going to happen. . . . The important thing is to stay open to the miracle when it occurs.''
 Nolan is the miracle, but not the sort Meyer might have scripted in his memoirs. The first clue that this cliche-busting novel is entirely under Prose's control -- and will soon head in unexpected directions -- is that when hero and antihero collide they don't merely shake hands. In an unsettlingly frat-boyish ritual of male bonding, they compare tattoos: Vincent's Nazi insignia and Meyer's Auschwitz number, a souvenir of what Vincent's cousin still calls the ''Holo-hoax.'' ''My tattoos and yours are not the same!'' Meyer says pointedly. ''I know that,'' Nolan replies. ''You don't,'' Maslow insists. To which Nolan responds, ''I'm learning. Believe me.'' But does Maslow believe him? A famous martyr, he doesn't have a lot of faith. A deliciously subversive suspicion creeps in: is the survivalist more of a mensch than the survivor?
 Unlike Meyer, Nolan doesn't think he knows what it means to be good, but he's sincerely trying to figure it out. And that means he's in the same boat as Bonnie, which is new for him but a lifelong situation for her. A liberal whose heart bleeds for everyone but herself, Bonnie has been dumped by her pathologically self-absorbed husband and is raising two adolescent sons on her own in the suburbs. She worships her boss with such blind devotion that her kids call him Meyer Manson.
 But does Meyer deserve Bonnie's fealty? He likes to ponder his assorted pettinesses from time to time and sometimes frets that he could be accused of ''practicing telescopic philanthropy, mistreating those closest to him in his efforts to save people on the other side of the planet.'' Nonetheless, when Nolan needs a place to stay -- so that ARM bounty hunters don't chase him down and cut off his toes, as they did to a past defector -- Meyer neatly passes the Nazi-boarding duties to Bonnie. ''Bonnie wanted to be asked to take Vincent in,'' he tells himself self-servingly. Nice guy or not, he's right, and anyway Bonnie enjoys indulging him. ''Meyer insists on having it all at once,'' she reflects. ''History, God and expensive clothes.'' If he thinks he's entitled to go through the rest of his life with a free pass and rely on miracles to get his work done, that's fine by her. ''Meyer is, after all, a man plucked five times from the clutches of death. What was he supposed to do? Outgrow it after the war?''
 And thus it is that Bonnie and her sons, Danny and Max, end up with the neo-fascist in the guest room. The boys, as blase and unshockable as all teenagers, act unfazed to find a shaved-head Ryan Gosling look-alike at the kitchen table. Not long before, they'd watched as a skinhead on a talk show turned himself in to the Simon Wiesenthal Foundation. ''Danny remembers telling Max: Trust me, it won't be long until Mom and Meyer get a Nazi of their own.'' But as Nolan's stay stretches from days to weeks, a metamorphosis occurs; the stray pit bull the family took in turns into the man of the house, someone who can listen to Bonnie complain about her day at work, lend her authority with her sons -- and even help Danny on his Hitler paper!
 Bonnie, whose heart has been frozen since her husband left, warily begins to thaw. She's ''touched, despite herself, by this overgrown working-class kid, this hard-luck, basically likable young man who never had a chance. But how many bad breaks does it take to turn you into a guy with SS tattoos? The idea is so American.'' After his speech at the foundation dinner provokes a media lovefest, she's surprised to find herself wondering, ''Could she possibly have the tiniest crush on Vincent?'' Post-gala, Meyer is less squeamish about his desires. Could Vincent's notoriety create a publicity bonanza for World Brotherhood Watch -- and boost the flagging sales of Meyer's new book? House Nazi to the rescue!
 Francine Prose has long been established as a writer who can carve and polish irregular human pieces until they fit together not with false prettiness but with smooth seams. In her last novel, ''Blue Angel,'' the puzzle pieces included a manipulative student, her bumbling but well-intentioned creative-writing professor and his wife and colleagues. But even decades ago, in novels like ''Animal Magnetism'' and ''Household Saints,'' Prose's tools were impressively sharp. Yet ''A Changed Man'' represents a departure: unlike her other books, which illuminate relationships among small circles (families, couples, tight communities), this story has a continental sweep.
 Here Prose uses the exaggerated failings of an ideological extremist to expose the wishy-washy but more pervasive moral failures of contemporary America: detached or absent fathers; frantic, overworked mothers; undernurtured children; checkbook philanthropy; media hypocrisy; the shortage of local heroes willing to help the people around them. But for all of that, the novel isn't a sermon or a lecture. Prose doesn't sit in judgment; instead, she holds a mirror up to her characters, reflecting both their imperfections and their charms.
 Even rehabilitated, Nolan is hardly an obvious role model, but he has a moral code. He quit ARM because he realized it was a cop-out, ''a way that guys have found to explain to themselves why they're unemployed and broke, or working crappy jobs they hate.'' As he tells Danny, he has learned that there are two types of people in the world: those who run toward whatever dangerous stuff is happening and those who run away. Which kind is Danny? Which kind is Meyer? And Bonnie and Nolan? There are no easy answers, but at least Nolan is struggling with the right questions.
 John Updike attempted something on this scale with his century-spanning epic, ''In the Beauty of the Lilies.'' In it, a kid named Clark, the grandson of a small-town mailman and the son of a Hollywood actress, joins a Branch Davidian-style cult. During a Waco-like conflagration, Clark -- like Ingo Hasselbach and Vincent Nolan -- has a change of heart. Hearing that he has died while killing the cult's leader, his grieving mother thinks: ''Poor little Clark. He tried so hard as a baby to be good, working on how to nurse, to crawl, to walk, to talk, to be a person. . . . Thank you, Lord, for letting my son become a hero at the end.''
 Francine Prose shows that heroes -- even compromised ones -- are much more useful if they can be kept alive. The most important part of being good is being there.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HOLOCAUST (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



560 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Up Front

BYLINE: By The Editors

 BODY:
As the new century begins to take shape, several of America's most solidly established institutions have entered periods of soul-searching -- reluctantly in most cases. The list includes the C.I.A., the Roman Catholic Church and many of the major media organizations. 
This week, the Book Review examines yet another institution now deep in self-questioning mode, Harvard University. Under its outspoken president, Lawrence H. Summers, who took office shortly after Sept. 11, 2001, Harvard has become a proving ground for debate on topics ranging from grade inflation and watered-down curriculums to globalization and the Iraq war. 
 In ''The Tempest in the Ivory Tower,'' Rachel Donadio, a writer and editor at the Book Review, discusses two timely books about Harvard: Richard Bradley's ''Harvard Rules'' and Ross Gregory Douthat's ''Privilege.'' In her essay, she looks beyond the fleeting controversies over Summers's personality and leadership style and suggests that his repeated clashes with members of the Harvard faculty point to larger social and political transformations in American academia. If Harvard is seen as a stand-in for America, Donadio argues, then the current debates ultimately place Harvard and Summers at the center of ''the broader, more vexed debate about the role America should hold'' in today's world. 
 Her essay begins on Page 12. The Editors

On the Web

Featured Author: A retrospective on the career of Francine Prose, the author of ''A Changed Man.''

Readers are invited to submit questions for Kurt Eichenwald, author of ''Conspiracy of Fools.''

From the Archive: The obituary of William Marcy Tweed, the subject of Kenneth D. Ackerman's book.

First Chapters: Excerpts from ''March,'' by Geraldine Brooks; ''Fat Girl,'' by Judith Moore; and other books.

Books Update E-mail: Receive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Friday.

nytimes.com/books


GRAPHIC: Photo: Francine Prose. (Marion Ettlinger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CURRICULA (76%); RELIGION (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (58%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



561 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2805 words

HEADLINE: The Rebirth of Bali

BYLINE: By Denny Lee. 
DENNY LEE writes for the Escapes section of The Times.

 BODY:
STUMBLING down Legian Street on Bali on a humid Tuesday night, Tim Picken had a buddy on one arm and a beer on the other. He poked his head into a T-shirt shop, shared a joke about the cheap prices and flirted with the passers-by. Then, before he ducked into another bar along this neon-and-booze strip in Kuta, Mr. Picken stopped laughing for a few moments, just long enough to pay his respects. 
 No wider than a tennis court and no longer than a bowling alley, the site, at the headwaters of the bustling street, was littered with weeds and easy to miss.
 There were no flowers, no official tributes. There was just a wooden sign, in Bahasa Bali, warning visitors not to trespass. As if anyone would dance on a grave. 
 ''It was mostly Australians my age who died,'' said Mr. Picken, 29, a real estate agent visiting from Melbourne, as he glanced at the unkempt plot of land. As he leaned in, the bubbly hook of Outkast's ''Hey Ya!'' echoed down the narrow street. ''My parents told me to avoid crowded bars, but you can't stop living your life.''
 ''Besides,'' he said, continuing on his bar crawl, ''it's probably not going to happen in the same place again.''
 More than two years after terrorist bombs pierced the touristy heart of Bali along its southern coast -- killing 202 people and prompting headlines proclaiming ''Paradise Lost'' -- a carefree spirit has finally returned to this tropical jewel, famous for its emerald landscapes, Hindu aura and perennial spring break vibe. So, too, have the crowds. 
 In an unmistakable sign that Bali is recovering, nearly 1.5 million people visited the island in 2004, a 47 percent jump from the year before. According to Bali tourism officials, some 40,000 Americans traveled halfway around the globe to experience the island's slow-cooked charms, a 40 percent gain from 2003. 
 Signs of Bali's upswing are everywhere, from the surfer-mobbed breaks along Kuta Beach on the southwestern coast, to the traffic tie-ups leaving Ngurah Rai International Airport. Hotels that were nearly mothballed are now booked solid.
 ''We had a 75 percent occupancy rate last summer,'' Monty Brown, the manager for Aman Resort's three properties in the island, said in a recent interview. ''The year before, it was 25 percent.'' 
 Not only is Bali rebounding but it is also re-emerging with a high-end gloss that belies its reputation as a backpacker's nirvana. Luxury hotels with lotus-shaped pools and teak-lined restaurants are going up while old ones are renovating their way to more stars. Fancy restaurants, first-class spas and hip nightclubs have all cropped up in the last year, adding new spice to a scene that, not long ago, bordered on stale. 
 ''It was a banner year for Bali,'' said David Wilson, the general manager at the Ritz-Carlton, in Jimbaran, while conducting a tour of the hotel's 38 new luxury villas, nearly all of which had been booked for the New Year holidays. He said he expected 2005 to be even better. 
 ''There was never a wait-and-see period,'' he added. ''We were always confident that Bali would bounce back.'' 
 On a balmy Friday night in early January, the crooked sidewalks of Kuta glistened after a light shower. Shopkeepers tidied up their sarong displays. Bar owners dimmed the lights. As midnight approached, a steady stream of partygoers in their 20's and 30's emerged from their hotel rooms with expectant looks on their faces, ready to hit the next hot spot. 
 At Fuel, a five-month-old restaurant that opened next door to the bomb site, the crowd was as glossy as a magazine ad. Women in strappy sandals sipped cosmopolitans. Men in tight shirts primped in front of the mirror. Not long ago, the space was abandoned by a store that had sold bootleg D.V.D.'s and pooka shells. Now it's a happening spot with minimalist decor and swirling psychedelic lights. 
 ''It's a great location,'' said an owner, Gusky Suarsana, trying his best to sound apologetic. ''The area is going upscale.'' 
 Patrons were laughing and dancing, seemingly oblivious to the tragic landmark next door. Perhaps enough time had past. Or perhaps they were lost in holiday merriment.
 But vestiges of terrorism are unavoidable, looming over the tropical oasis like a stalled monsoon. At the Four Seasons Resort in Jimbaran, guests are now greeted at the gatehouse with AK-47 rifles and undercarriage checks. At the McDonald's on Kuta Beach, night watchmen keep close tabs at all hours, even when the crowd thins to a drunken few. And during the Christmas and New Year rush, the police were out in full force, rummaging through trash cans, delivery trucks and fanny packs. Australia had issued yet another terrorist warning, as had Britain, New Zealand and the United States. 
 The attacks occurred just after 11 p.m. on Oct. 12, 2002, a busy Saturday night. A bomb linked to Al Qaeda ripped through Paddy's Bar, a popular nightclub on Legian Street, in the bopping tourist district of Kuta. The location was no accident. It was as if the blast tore through the Ramblas in Barcelona or Times Square in New York. 
 Half a minute later, a more powerful car bomb exploded across the street, creating a three-foot-deep crater outside the Sari Club and trapping hundreds in a disco inferno. Many of the dead -- including 88 Australians, 38 Indonesians, 26 Britons and 7 Americans -- had been fleeing the first blast. The Balinese call it their ground zero. 
 Tourism, the economic soul of Bali, sank like a stone. Waves of storefronts went dark, hotel employees were laid off en masse, and airlines scaled back flights to Bali before abandoning the destination altogether. ''The whole of Bali emptied out,'' recalled Jamal Hussain, the general manager of the Hard Rock Hotel Bali, one of the many Western icons that remain on high alert. 
 If that weren't enough, SARS arrived the next year, devastating tourism throughout Asia. Then terrorism struck again, this time in the Indonesia capital of Jakarta. A bomb-laden S.U.V. rocked a Marriott hotel in the central business district. Then last September, a car bomb exploded at the nearby Australian Embassy, killing 11. 
 Both attacks have been linked to Jemaah Islamiyah, the same Al Qaeda offshoot that is suspected as being responsible for the Bali blasts. 
 Yet, despite all these potentially crippling blows, Bali climbed back. A sprawling, 313-room Conrad hotel opened last year in the southern peninsula of Nusa Dua. COMO Hotel and Resorts opened up a boutique hotel, Uma Ubud, in the jungles of the Tjampuhan Valley. Accor Hotels opened the Sofitel Seminyak Bali last November, and plans to open another hotel in May. 
 ''It's a signal that companies are still optimistic about investing in Bali,'' said Robert Kelsall, chairman of the Bali Hotels Association, which represents the island's major chains. 
 And then there is the latest resort from Bulgari, the Italian jeweler, perched on an exquisite limestone cliff at Bali's southernmost tip. Although the hotel is not expected to open until the end of the year, fashionistas are already chattering about what the second outpost of this boutique hotelier (the other is in Milan) will look like when it is done. 
 Bali even has a new airline, Air Paradise International, which recently inaugurated service to a fifth city in Australia, to go with thrice-weekly flights to Osaka, Japan, and Seoul.
 Ask tourists why they returned and two answers usually emerge. 
 ''This is one of the most beautiful places I've been to,'' said Cherie Sogsti, 33, a travel blogger from Garden Grove, Calif., as she toured the Sacred Monkey Forest Sanctuary, a woodsy reserve in central Bali teeming with wild macaques. ''It seems almost mystical and magical.'' 
 The breathtaking topography still captivates tourists the way it did in the 1930's, when Westerners first promoted Bali as a vacationer's paradise. The former Dutch territory was a colonial playground for the Netherlands Indies, which extended from Indonesia to Malaysia. 
 Tucked below the equator on the Indian Ocean, the high temperature hovers around 85 degrees year round, and cools gradually as you move inland. Strolling along Kuta Beach on a recent evening, as the last whiskers of sunlight scorched the dusky sky, the air felt sultry and pacific, hugging the ground like an earthy blanket. 
 The island is ringed by velvety beaches and marbled cliffs. Dewy jungles and black volcanic peaks form its center. Terraced rice patties, the color of fresh lime, are etched into the countryside like giant amphitheaters. The air is expansive, the vistas ageless.
 Visitors also speak wistfully about Bali's idiosyncratic culture. Unlike the rest of Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, most Balinese practice a form of Hinduism that blends elements of Buddhism and animism. They believe that gods are everywhere. And, in a way, they are. 
 Sculptures depicting mythical battles loom over traffic circles like the Arc de Triomphe. Thousands of temples dot the island, their split gateways forming a kind of Escher-like portal into a cosmic world. Every morning, millions of boat-shaped banana leaves, stuffed with rice, fruits and flowers, are left on sidewalks like little gift baskets to the gods. 
 A leisurely drive through the winding backcountry reveals a simple life steeped in atavistic rituals. Men bathe together in the crystalline rivers, soaking and relaxing in Bali's original spa. Women in floor-length skirts dry tapioca on the roadside, stirring the granules under the baking sun. Slaughtered chickens hang off the back of mopeds. Banyan trees sway. And every few hours, the ethereal tones of gamelan music echo across the lush hills, signaling the start of another temple ceremony. 
 This reverence for Hindu customs may explain why decades of mass tourism has done little to dilute the island's charm. 
 ''Everyone smiles all the time,'' said Melinda Gavala, 28, a frequent visitor from Greece, as she watched the sun set on Seminyak Beach, an upscale area just north of Kuta. ''Even when they're overcharging you, their smile is 100 percent authentic.'' 
 But Bali's resilience is also a function of modern day P.R. As one of the world's best-known beach resorts, Bali never faded from tourists' imagination after the bombings. In fact, the Bali tourism board did little more than offer a few junkets for travel writers and tour operators, which most resort destinations do anyway. (The New York Times does not accept free trips.)
 ''The island succeeds in spite of itself,'' said Jack Daniels, president of Bali Discovery Tours, which runs a tourism news Web site. ''Bali has tremendous brand equity. Even through the crisis, travel magazines kept naming Bali among the top island destinations.''
 But contrary to post-bombing predictions by tour operators, ''terrorist attacks have a very short-term consequence on tourism,'' said Rok Klancnik, a spokesman for the World Tourism Organization, a United Nations agency based in Madrid. And it seems to be getting shorter. 
 ''It took Luxor, Egypt, five long years to recover from its terrorist attacks,'' Mr. Klancnik added, referring to the 1997 massacre of 58 foreigners by Islamic militants in an ancient temple. New York City saw tourism levels rebound two years after the 2001 attacks, and Madrid's were back to normal within months of the 2004 train bombing. 
 ''It will probably take Bali just another year to fully recover,'' Mr. Klancnik said. 
 But scars will remain, appearing like unwelcome party guests. Bomb-sniffing dogs, stone-faced guards and airport-style metal detectors are all part of the new normal. (The State Department continues to warn Americans ''of the continued potential for terrorist attacks against Americans, U.S. or other Western interests in Indonesia.'') And the economic slump of the previous two years has lent an air of desperation to the aggressive touting. 
 On sunny afternoons, a crush of peddlers turn stretches of Kuta Beach into a seaside flea market. In quieter spots, sunbathers are accosted by an almost comical parade of hawkers selling sunglasses, box kites, tattoos, beer, jewelry and full-body massages -- sometimes all of them in just half an hour. Street begging got so out of hand that the police had to institute a crackdown. 
 The makeup of tourists has changed as well. Although Bali welcomed visitors from 177 countries last year, the tourism surge came primarily from Australia and Asian countries, especially Japan. 
 ''We haven't recovered the Western European or North American market,'' said Mr. Daniels of Bali Discovery Tours. ''It takes four Japanese tourists to equal one German in terms of total number of days and money spent.'' 
 While Kuta and other tourist meccas are bustling, remote regions are struggling. In upcountry Ubud, the island's cultural hub, art galleries have closed and a shadow puppet show was eerily empty on a Wednesday night in January. 
 Farther afield, in the eastern resort town of Candi Dasa, no one was shopping for roadside wood carvings on a clear afternoon. ''We haven't seen any tourists,'' said Hans Peter Keller, an architect from Switzerland, who was lounging by an empty hotel pool. 
 But even in the busier places, many of the tourists relish the relative tranquillity. Bob Walker, 34, a firefighter from England, was drinking alone at Fuel, the new hot spot on Legian Street. It was his first visit to the island and already he was hooked. 
 ''If you want to get drunk, there's no shortage of bars,'' he said. ''If you like girls, there's plenty of them. And if you like surfing, nothing beats Bali.'' 
 Someone had just told him about a secluded surfing spot on Bali's west coast. ''I'm going to extend my trip for another month,'' he said. ''I feel safe here.''

A PARADISE REBOUNDS FROM A HELLISH TIME
 The State Department has an official Travel Warning about ''the ongoing terrorist threat for Indonesia.'' It urges American visitors to register with the consular agent in Bali, at (62-361) 233-605. More information is online at travel.state.gov/travel.

GETTING THERE
 There are no direct flights between Bali and the United States. Singapore Airlines, (800) 742-3333, www.singaporeair.com, has daily connections via Singapore from New York City, Newark, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Round-trip coach fares from Kennedy Airport (with a layover in Frankfurt) are around $1,200. Flights from Newark start at $1,550.
 Cathay Pacific, (800) 233-2742, www.cathaypacific.com, flies to Bali via Hong Kong from New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Web fares for mid-April start at $923 from Los Angeles and $1,150 from J.F.K. 
 Other airlines flying from New York to Bali include Korean Air (through Seoul), (800) 438-5000, www.koreanair.com; and Japan Airlines (via Tokyo or Osaka), (800) 525-3663, www.japanair.com.

WHERE TO STAY
 Lodging choices range from $5 budget hostels with bunk beds and no air-conditioning to over-the-top suites fit for a sheik, starting at $3,000. For $100 to $150 a night, many places offer spas, courtyards and meandering pools. The Bali Hotels Associations, which represents the island's larger chains, has online links to its members at www.balihotelsassociation.com. Here is a sampling of choices on the island:
 Amanusa, Nusa Dua (62-361) 772-333, amanresorts.com. A minimalist temple to Balinese architecture, it rents 33 villas perched on a hillside overlooking the Indian Ocean. A private path leads to a secluded beach. Suites are $650 for a garden view, and $1,300 for one with a private pool.
 Cendana Resort and Spa, Monkey Forest Road, Ubud, (62-361) 973-243, www.cendanaresort-spa.com. Close to art galleries and artisanal villages, the hotel is a homey base to explore Bali's culture. Doubles start at $70 for a room with air-conditioning.
 Hotel Padma, Padma 1, Legian, (62-361) 752-111, www.hotelpadma.com. Just north of Kuta, the 405-room hotel features spacious rooms, a swim-up bar and several restaurants. Popular with young couples and wedding parties. Web rates start at $110 for a standard room. 
 The Oberoi Bali, Seminyak, (62-361) 730-361, www.oberoihotels.com. Right on the beach, the hotel offers a surprisingly tranquil setting not farfrom the bustle of Kuta. The 75 thatched lanais and villas start at $255, but Internet rates can be less.
 Villa Sasoon, Jalan Puri Bagus, Candi Dasa, (62-363) 41511, www.villasasoon.com. The four two-bedroom pavilions offer a modern spin on traditional Balinese homes, with pebbled courtyards, open living rooms and outdoor showers. Rates are $250, including breakfast.

ONLINE GUIDES
 The Internet is rife with unreliable Bali guides, but a good starting point is Bali Discovery Tours, www.balidiscovery.com, which offers a hotel search function, travel tips and news, and last-minute specials. Another trustworthy, if less in-depth source is the Bali Tourism Board, www.bali-tourismboard.com. DENNY LEE


GRAPHIC: Photos: Relaxing on Kuta Beach. The number of visitors to Bali in 2004 rose 47 percent over the year before. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Terraced rice paddies in Jatiluwih. Security guards check a car entering the Conrad resort. The scene at the Bounty on Legian Street in Kuta. Women carry offerings to a Hindu temple in Mengwi.
A Hindu woman prays at the temple in Megwi. The Hindu aura on Bali adds to the island's charm.
 A swimming pool at the sprawling Conrad Bali Resort, one of several new properties bringing new gloss to Bali. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 8, 9)Map of Bali highlighting points of interest. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (67%); BOWLING CENTERS (55%); AIRPORTS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Nightclubs and Cabarets

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) INDONESIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bali (Indonesia); Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



562 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: What Happens If It Bursts?

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
AT cocktail parties these days, the chatter often involves a bit of bragging about real estate profits before it winds down to those famous last words: ''The market might go down, but my area will maintain its value.'' 
 It's as if people think that an electromagnetic field of protection will shield a particular series of brownstones or cul-de-sacs from whatever might befall the market at large because of higher mortgage rates, mortgage defaults or an oversupply wrought by downsizing baby boomers. 
 Wishful thought, willful naivete or irrational exuberance explain the extent of the conviction, according to many real estate appraisers, whose business it is to track sale prices and trends over time. 
 One has to look back only to the last time the real estate market's cabin pressure changed for the worse to see that every place loses value. In the late 1980's even areas as sought after as Greenwich, Conn., had go-go prices reversed. Controversies even raged about the number of ''For Sale'' signs staked into lawns, which some found gauche. A home built at 1 Round Hill Road, a showpiece address in the well-regarded back country section of town, stood unsold for months. 
 Although the most established enclaves of the most rarefied towns are not immune to market forces and psychology, the most intriguing areas to watch in downturns, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the Manhattan appraisal firm Miller Samuel, are those widely thought to have built and renovated themselves to a permanently new standing in the market. Frequently, Mr. Miller said, it is these areas that, despite the high expectations (or maybe because of them), are hit the hardest. 
 On the odd occasion, however, changes in an area will be so substantive that it will weather the downturn not with prices unscathed (a near impossibility, see: Greenwich) but with comparatively less pain. 
 Elliott D. Sclar, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, said that the Upper West Side was at its low point in the 1960's and 70's, with single-room-occupancy hotels on many blocks, high crime and families moving out. Then came a sharp growth in restaurants, shops, renovation and co-op conversion in the 1980's -- trends that some were convinced would prevent prices from plummeting, even when the stock market crashed in October 1987, limiting the cash flow of many prospective residents. The change did stick on the Upper West Side and prices held better than other areas, Mr. Miller said. 
 In the same era, the East Village was also thought to have gentrified its way to a new level of stability, but it experienced one of the sharpest price declines in Manhattan. According to co-op sales numbers prepared by Miller Samuel, prices in the East Village dropped more than 30 percent from 1987 to 1994. Though the East Village at the time was thought of as the latest, greatest frontier in Manhattan, Mr. Miller said the ensuing confidence overlooked important factors that could come into play during times of falling prices, like limited transportation. 
 Moreover, although there had been building and renovation, retail stores catering to the influx in new residents never caught up, as they had on the Upper West Side. When the gloss came off the real estate market toward the end of the 1980's, owners in the East Village suffered more than those in other neighborhoods. 
 But then came the upturn of the 1990's. Though there is still no Second Avenue subway, the East Village became one of Manhattan's hottest neighborhoods and with the increase in prices, the same old mantra returned: that the East Village finally had changed its stripes to the point that it could better weather a downturn. 
 This time, Mr. Miller said, such hopes might be realized. He points to the higher level of owner occupancy brought by the current wave of building and the increase in support services that followed. In order to test to how an urban neighborhood might perform in a down market, Mr. Miller said, one must look at whether essential services like supermarkets, dry cleaners and a choice in restaurants can be found within a several block radius of any given apartment. That wasn't the case in the East Village as the last flush market began to teeter. But now it more frequently is. 
 ''If you are walking 15 blocks, those high prices get hard to justify,'' Mr. Miller said, when macro trends, like mortgage rates, turn against a market. ''You need a certain base line to become a more stabilized community.''
 By this measure, Mr. Miller said, it is not the East Village but many Harlem neighborhoods that might be vulnerable in a downturn. Although residential prices have soared, commercial activity hasn't developed deep roots. ''It's still early in the process there,'' he said, pointing to the long walks to pick up everything from greens to shined shoes. Likewise, he said, the far West 40's, where there has been a great deal of rental construction, reminds him of the far East 30's in the 1980's, where many rental buildings were built before the support services caught up. 
 Dr. Sclar of Columbia, who has a map of the proposed Second Avenue subway (circa 1955) in his office, said that transportation is a key to performance in bad markets and that because of that, he doesn't agree with Mr. Miller's forecasts. He said that because the subway still hasn't been built, the East Village may suffer again. And on the subject of Harlem, he also disagrees with Mr. Miller, pointing to the base line strength that good subway access brings. 
 Both Dr. Sclar and Charles Lockwood, the author of ''Bricks and Brownstone'' (Rizzoli International Publications, 2003), an architectural history of New York row houses, also point to the appealing housing stock in areas of Harlem like Strivers' Row. Demand for brownstones with space and elegant detail could help the area maintain its footing, they said. 
 The biggest risks, Dr. Sclar said, might be in changing areas in the industrialized margins of the city, like Red Hook and Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Brad Lander, the director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development, said that fashionable areas where there was ''fringe gentrification'' were always harder hit, but that the influx of immigrants to the city in the past generation had pushed these patterns to Brooklyn and Queens. If prices come down in general, Mr. Lander said, buyers will be less willing to deal with the relative isolation, limited retail and school choice in a place like Williamsburg. 
 The hunches and guesswork involved in predicting which areas have changed enough to weather a downturn do not end at the city limits. 
 In Westchester, the heralding of the birth of White Plains as a legitimate small city have been a feature of several real estate runups. In the harsh light of a downturn, however, its limitations -- like a traditional lack of life at night -- come back to haunt it. But in the past several years, the development has reached a new level and given White Plains something it never had before: a skyline. 
 Marge Schneider, an executive vice president of Cappelli Enterprises, a developer of condominiums in the area, said her company has raised prices repeatedly because of demand and has also become partners with Donald Trump to sell apartments in the city. She said that White Plains will remain in good standing because the more than 2,000 luxury apartments in the center of town have put residents on the streets at night. Everything from big box retailers to restaurants and a new movie theater have opened, and teem with customers. 
 John Mason of Mason Appraisal Services in Yorktown said that the large number of corporations that have settled in and around the nearby Route 287 corridor speak well to the ability of White Plains to survive a bad environment for real estate. 
 But over all, he said, he is not confident in its prospects. Mr. Mason said that there is an inorganic element to a city built on the back of large development projects. He is more confident in the sustainability of progress in the northern city of Peekskill, which, unlike White Plains, has been settled by a burgeoning population of artists, taking advantage of available lofts and river views. 
 ''The cultural beat in Peekskill far exceeds anything in White Plains and that could make a difference,'' he said.
 In looking at communities outside Peekskill that sit along the Hudson, Mr. Mason said that there are often two narratives to a town's future: a rosy one you hear in good times and a more guarded one in bad; with this in mind, he said some of the river towns like Hastings and Tarrytown that have long anticipated redeveloping their waterfronts with recreation and retailing might lose hope under the umbrella of a bad market. 
 Though waterfront development has not materialized in areas of Westchester, the Midtown Direct train line that now links parts of New Jersey to Penn Station in Manhattan has changed communities from Maplewood to Madison. That change in transportation will keep demand much stronger than it otherwise would have been, said Jeffrey G. Otteau, president of the Otteau Appraisal Group in East Brunswick. The settling of so many corporate headquarters in the nearby Routes 78 and 287 corridor will also help. But ironically, he said, many of the fast-growing ''exurbs,'' or outer suburbs, near the Jersey Shore may suffer. Their growth and rising prices are based on their easy commute to that north central corridor in New Jersey. There is no similar job source nearby to give the area its own base line. 
 When it comes to future prices, of course, all is speculation. And perhaps, just maybe, this will be the time when famous last words will come true and everything will be different. Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Brown Harris Stevens, is not sold on the inevitability of a downturn. He bases his confidence in the market on things like continuing low mortgage rates, high Wall Street bonuses and the tax benefits of home ownership. 
 ''It is a new paradigm,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BUILDING BOOM -- A view from Trump Tower at City Center in downtown White Plains, where continuous development has given the city its first real skyline. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (54%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



563 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Next Stop: Chaos?

BYLINE: By ROBERT W. SNYDER. 
Robert W. Snyder, director of the journalism and media studies program at Rutgers University at Newark, is the author of ''Transit Talk: New York's Bus and Subway Workers Tell Their Stories.''

 BODY:
WHILE Albany debates the fiscal future of New York's subways, it forgets one of the great lessons of the 20th century: when the subway works well, the city works well. That's why Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature must finance the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's $17.2 billion capital program to repair and expand the subways and our transit system. History shows that the health of New York City depends on it.
 Look back no farther than the last two weeks to see the chaos that grips New York when the subways break down. When water leaked onto electrical wires on the Lexington Avenue line, when a metal track fastener struck the third rail on the No. 7 line and when a fire broke out at the Atlantic Avenue station in Brooklyn, the results were the same: delays, anger, confusion and a nagging sense that the city was not working. A bad morning waiting on a crowded subway platform can even make you forget something worth remembering: the subway's role in some of the best aspects of New York life. 
 Subways created many of the neighborhoods that most New Yorkers call home. Jacob Riis's famous photographs of the Lower East Side showed how bad city life could be in overcrowded conditions, but the subway helped change that. The opening of the subway in 1904 led to residential development in previously inaccessible neighborhoods. Ordinary people left the slums of Lower Manhattan and found better housing.
 In new neighborhoods made possible by the subway -- Washington Heights in Manhattan and Highbridge in the Bronx -- immigrants and their children found new homes in America. Navigating ethnic neighborhoods and gauging the distance between your own block and the world at the end of the subway line produced classics of New York literature such as Kate Simon's ''Bronx Primitive'' and Alfred Kazin's ''A Walker in the City.'' 
 The subway connects the city's distant regions to each other, making it possible for New Yorkers to enjoy all the benefits -- educational, economic and cultural -- that the city has to offer. A student from eastern Queens can ride the subway to get to Stuyvesant High School in Lower Manhattan. An office worker from the northern Bronx can commute to a job in Midtown Manhattan. Children from a hot, crowded neighborhood in Brooklyn can take the subway to the beaches of Coney Island. And immigrants from the Lower East Side can find their way to the kinds of books that can change their lives at the New York Public Library on 42nd Street. The subway turned Brooklynites, Inwoodites, Astorians and Harlemites into New Yorkers.
 The subway is one of the places where New Yorkers learn to get along with one another despite all their differences. But in its worst days, the subway turned New Yorkers into fearful, angry versions of their best selves. From the 1960's into the 1980's, the system deteriorated. Breakdowns increased. Worse, fear of crime scared many riders. 
 Yet for many New Yorkers the subway was an unavoidable part of daily life. To be mugged or threatened there meant being harmed on the very subway line to which you had to return. 
 The sense of disorder on the trains, amplified by pervasive graffiti, was as much a problem as actual violence. In 1984, when a subway rider named Bernard Goetz shot four youths who surrounded him and asked for money, many thought the city had reached an unbearable low point. 
 Thankfully, what looked like an endless spiral down into an abyss came to an end. Crime in the subways declined, thanks to innovative strategies introduced under William Bratton, the chief of the transit police from 1990 to 1992, and a larger decline in crime all around the city. 
 Service also improved, thanks to better financing secured by Richard Ravitch when he was chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Since 1981, the authority has spent more than $30 billion on our subways and buses. For straphangers, the greater sense of ease and order has been one of the best things about New York. 
 Equally impressive has been the growth in ridership. Today, the children of immigrants from China, Jamaica, Mexico and the Dominican Republic are becoming New Yorkers by riding the subway. With strong service and decent fares, they too will be able to take the A train to a better future. 
 But with proper financing for our subways in limbo, it does little good to tell straphangers that the breakdowns of recent weeks do not signal a failure of the whole transit system. Subway riders know that it costs money to maintain the system's health. And right now, that money is not forthcoming. The State Legislature and the governor must provide it. The best hopes for the city's future, and the best legacies of its past, are riding on the subway. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CHILDREN (87%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SLUM DWELLINGS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); BEACHES (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); LIBRARIES (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (56%); FIRES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



564 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; COPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: No Parking. You're Welcome. 

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LET us now praise New York legs.
 Not in a sexist way, of course. We're talking about the beauty of walking rather than driving, not to mention the millions, perhaps even billions of dollars that New York's policy makers, in their collective wisdom, save every year by not providing cheap parking for residents and visitors.
 In much of the country, free or at least cheap parking is a God-given right. Americans expect to be able to drive to a movie, a bookstore or a department store and park at relatively low cost just steps away, either on the street or in a parking lot. 
 Not in New York. Just try driving to the local multiplex in Brooklyn or Queens, let alone the Empire State Building. 
 Now a new book with the policy-wonky title ''The High Cost of Free Parking,'' published by the American Planning Association, goes a long way toward making New Yorkers feel good about the onerousness of parking in the city. In 733 pages, it offers a ''comprehensive examination'' of the parking customs of urban Americans, the fruit of 25 years of research by Donald Shoup, a professor of urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 There is, he contends, no such thing as free parking. To him, free parking represents lost revenue, squandered land and polluted air. To him, parking garages are not an amenity, but an antisocial car subsidy. If parking is scarce, Dr. Shoup says, that means it is underpriced. He calls for unleashing market forces: If the price of parking is high enough, there will be vacancies.
 This makes a lot of sense. Parking on the Upper East Side would be a breeze if it cost $1,000 a day, and some might say that the city is already headed in that direction.
 The Shoup book comes on the heels of a recent study by a senior economist at the RAND Corporation showing that New Yorkers are healthier than people who live in sprawling suburbs. This is because it is better, the RAND researchers suggested, to walk to the subway every day than to drive to work and go to the gym once a week.
 Told of Dr. Shoup's analysis, Jerome Barth, director of operations for the 34th Street Partnership, a business improvement group, said: ''This is one more way that New York is ahead of the country. In New York, you can park anywhere you want, if you can pay $30 an hour.''
 If maximum inconvenience to drivers is the goal, nothing beats alternate-side-of-the-street parking regulations. ''This is, I think, very unique to New York,'' Mr. Barth, who is French, said admiringly. Certainly, Mr. Barth said, such a system does not exist in Paris, where men wash the streets and sweep between parked cars with old-fashioned brooms, no moving required.
 According to Sam Schwartz, aka Gridlock Sam and probably the city's pre-eminent traffic historian, New Yorkers owe the modern era of punitive parking to Ross Sandler. It is because of Mr. Sandler that New Yorkers look at an unclaimed parking space and say ''Uh-oh,'' because they know it's too good to be true. Park in that space, and you are certain to get a ticket, because, as everyone knows, there is no such thing as free parking in New York City.
 In 1977, Mr. Sandler was the lead lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council when he won a court order that resulted in thousands fewer parking spaces south of 60th Street as a way of forcing the city to comply with the Federal Clean Air Act. Later, as a transportation commissioner in the Koch administration (with Mr. Schwartz as his deputy), he introduced the ''Don't Even Think of Parking Here'' sign.
 Mr. Sandler, now a law professor, thought Dr. Shoup's economic argument missed the point. ''To think about parking in terms of money alone is pretty silly, because it really is politics,'' he said. He should know, having once granted two free parking spaces to Mother Teresa, at Mayor Koch's insistence. As a political move, granting parking spaces to a future saint was a lot more felicitous than activating parking meters near churches on Sundays, as the current administration has done.
 Progress marches on, and Mr. Schwartz predicts that quarter-fed meters will soon go the way of dime meters and take dollar coins instead. In that spirit, he suggests that moves to reserve parking for residents in neighborhoods like Brooklyn Heights are, well, anti-New York. ''New York is a more freewheeling place than anyplace else,'' he said. ''People visit each other. I just don't think residential parking is compatible with the New York style.''
 All that walking, Mr. Schwartz likes to say, gives New Yorkers a competitive and maybe even an evolutionary edge over people in car-dominated cities like Los Angeles. ''I like to joke that our legs are a millimeter longer,'' he says. And still growing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SUBURBS (76%); BOOKSTORES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



565 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: Inside a Condo, a Not-So-Civil War

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
EVER since the Future Condominium, a modern glass and aluminum tower on East 32nd Street, opened in 1993, Avital Shimshowitz and her neighbors have lived in simple peace and harmony, at least most of the time, in this vertical Manhattan village. 
 So Ms. Shimshowitz, who is the manager for the Sean John men's clothing store on Fifth Avenue, was surprised at what happened when she decided to run for the board of managers at the annual meeting last June.
 First, she was told that she couldn't run because there were already enough candidates and that she had missed a deadline. When she insisted, she said, the meeting was postponed a month, until the middle of the summer. 
 Then the day before the rescheduled meeting, the condo board president quietly filed a lien against Ms. Shimshowitz, after she had missed a single $100 installment payment on an assessment the month before. 
 The lien, filed without a telephone call or any notice, or even a vote of the entire board, caught Ms. Shimshowitz by surprise, she said, and she did not notice until the balloting was over that the footnote next to her name on the ballot indicated that she was ''in arrears.'' Under the bylaws of many condominiums, owners with unpaid liens cannot serve on the board. 
 As many of New York's condominiums and co-ops head toward the rush of annual spring meetings, with the usual blur of financial statements, amendments and board elections, the events at the Future may be a textbook example of what can go wrong in an otherwise pleasant building.
 Neighbors thrown together by financial happenstance or the luck of the real estate market are sometimes shocked to find themselves acting out childhood angst and rivalries at the condo or co-op board. In the worst cases some yearn for the clinical detachment of a rental building.
 Many at the Future bought their apartments at a deep discount, at the end of a real estate recession, and have seen their values nearly quadruple. Most have come to love the unusual angled facade on their 35-story building, designed by Paul Rudolph, with balconies that jut out at a rakish angle and give the appearance of tilting downward toward the street. 
 But as the condo's management passes from the hands of some of the early buyers to a new generation of owners, there has been anguish and pain on all sides, and open warfare carried out in a barrage of angry e-mail messages and memos slipped under the doors of the 165 apartments in the building. 
 The conflict over Ms. Shimshowitz is just one of many; there have been disputes over the audited financial statements, complaints that old-timers had more than one storage locker downstairs, and accusations that a former board president absconded with thousands of dollars of granite paving stones.
 ''I'm thunderstruck,'' said Stuart M. Saft, a longtime condo and co-op lawyer who is chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums and who was not involved in the case. ''I have never heard of a civil war like this. This is horrendous.'' 
 Current board members, who support the lien against Ms. Shimshowitz, talk about their rage at special treatment given to some apartment owners by previous boards, and their confusion and pain over their efforts to simply try to do some good for their building community.
 ''It makes being on the board a punishment,'' said Al Urbont, who owns a printing and design business and who is in charge of the landscaping in the large plaza next to the building. ''We have to watch our backs for fear of getting knifed all the time.''
 The Future Condominium was conceived as a grand building, even bigger than its current disputes. Rudolph, the modernist architect who was the dean of Yale's architecture school from 1958 to 1965, was a design consultant who gave the building its distinctive sculptural shape and its skin of glass and aluminum, uncommon then in residential buildings. 
 The apartments, laid out by Costas Kondylis, the architect of record and current dean of New York condominium design, had high-end kitchens and in some cases, dining rooms that seemed to float over the city in a wall of glass. 
 But the project focused on the future was completed just as the best days of New York City real estate appeared to be in the past. The market for condos collapsed in a rash of foreclosures and bankruptcies. By 1993, prices were $350 a square foot.
 Many of the first round of buyers were doctors and professionals working at and around New York University Medical Center by the East River, and board members say this group formed the backbone of the condominium's culture in its first years of independence. It is one of the few buildings in Manhattan where a transplant surgeon was placed in charge of the gym.
 Larry Simms, who is married to an obstetrician who works at the hospital, was the board's first president after the owners gained control of the building from the sponsor. Both his supporters and detractors say that Mr. Simms, who manufactured and marketed construction materials but has since sold his business, seemed to have plenty of time to delve into the minute details of almost all aspects of running the building, and he almost always seemed to know more than anyone else. 
 After serving as president off and on for many years, he left the board only to run for election to a two-year term again in 2003. He won a seat and later took over as president for a while. And that was when the trouble began.
 When it came time for the board president to send an annual letter to the building's accountant, representing to the accountant that the board was unaware of any fraud, Mr. Simms reviewed the financial records and said he could not sign the letter without some qualifications. He said he had found four instances of possible fraud involving the former managing agent, including an unauthorized $15,000 bonus to the superintendent, $61,000 of unauthorized overtime and an insurance settlement paid without board approval. 
 But other board members thought the accusations were overblown. Julio Marquez, an investment banker with an M.B.A. from Harvard, was the treasurer then and he was outraged by the suggestion that he had mismanaged the building's finances. ''It was the most ridiculous accusation I have ever heard,'' he said. 
 At a board meeting last May, Mr. Simms was removed as president and replaced by Mr. Marquez. Toward the end of the stormy meeting, accusations about the missing bricks were brought up for the first time, participants said, and over the next few months several longtime board members, troubled by the personal attacks and the tenor of the meetings, resigned.
 The mystery of the stones, as chronicled in angry correspondence over many months, began when the granite pavers were pulled up from the plaza outside the building to make room for landscaping some years before, and had been stored ever since. Mr. Simms said that the Fire Department had objected to the way the stones were stored, but that when the building staff tried to put them out as trash, the Sanitation Department refused to take them away. 
 Then with permission from the building staff, he said, he removed some of the stored stones, a few bricks at a time, and drove them to his summer house on eastern Long Island and put them down in his garden. At the time he was not on the board, he said.
 After several heated exchanges, the new board president and two other board members went to the 17th Precinct station to file a grand larceny complaint against Mr. Simms, but the police took no action.
 The board then proposed a new ethics policy that would have allowed a simple majority of board members to suspend any member. Mr. Simms said the proposal was targeted at him, and it was never adopted by the unit owners. 
 Eventually, because the board said the redesign of the lobby required matching granite stone, Mr. Simms brought the granite stones back, but he is still furious. He filed a libel and slander suit last July, dismissed on a technicality but expected to be refiled, based on the various e-mail messages and memos distributed to his neighbors. Mr. Marquez, on the other hand, said he believed that the stones were returned because of the threat of police action.
 After the suit was filed, the board voted to accept Mr. Simms's resignation as a board member and appointed a new member to replace him -- even though he said he had never actually submitted a written resignation letter to the board. Mr. Simms said he was so disgusted with the board that he had intended to resign but then changed his mind. 
 Lisa Lazarus, a board member elected last June who is a labor lawyer with the National Football League, said that on the new condo board every member has a special area of interest, from the garden to the lobby renovation to finance, and that Mr. Simms didn't fit in because, in her view at least, he knew a little about everything.
 ''It is a very small minority of people who are involved,'' she said. ''The vast majority are very happy.''
 But despite the libel and slander suit, Mr. Marquez and several of his fellow board members still stand by their complaints that Mr. Simms absconded with building property and say they are angry about it. ''There are still bricks missing,'' Mr. Urbont said.
 They are also still angry with Ms. Shimshowitz, who they said received special favors from the condominium board and then attacked it in public. 
 Ms. Shimshowitz had approached the board several years ago, when it adopted a $250,000 assessment, and asked for help because she was in the middle of a divorce, under financial stress and unable to pay her $1,700 share of it. 
 The board agreed to let her pay $100 a month toward the assessment. Ms. Shimshowitz said that she had inadvertently missed a single $100 payment due by June 15, because the building had changed billing systems the month before and the new condo bills were inaccurate and confusing. 
 But by then she had already decided to run for the board. One evening Mr. Urbont and another board member, Yolanda Pessina, an architect who is overseeing the lobby renovation, confronted Ms. Shimshowitz in her apartment about some comments she had made in an elevator, defending Mr. Simms and disparaging the rest of the board. She said they told her that since she was the only one in the building to get an installment plan, she should stop complaining. 
 After the angry confrontation, in front of her 9-year-old daughter, Ms. Shimshowitz decided to fight back by running for the board. She had no complaint with the conduct of the former president. ''Larry Simms is the straightest, most honest guy in the world,'' she said. Ms. Shimshowitz paid the $100 installment on the assessment due in July on schedule, but by then Mr. Marquez and the treasurer, Andrew Brint, said they had decided that since she had violated her agreement, she owed the entire $800 still due on the assessment, and with late charges the lien totaled more than $1,300. 
 They described the process in detail to a reporter who was invited to attend a board meeting on a recent Saturday afternoon. As they discussed the issues, some members became angry all over again. 
 Mr. Brint, a forensic accountant who had feuded with Mr. Simms over lockers in the basement, said that he and Mr. Marquez had the lien papers prepared in advance, waited day after day to see if Ms. Shimshowitz had paid the $100 that was due in June, and then filed the papers only the day before the meeting. He explained that the delay gave her as much time as possible to pay before the annual meeting.
 Mr. Marquez said the board had no special obligation to tell Ms. Shimshowitz that she was in arrears, because the money owed for June would appear on her July bill, and that was sufficient notice. In a deposition he said that during the argument in her apartment, she said she would not pay another penny in protest, but she disputed this, and noted that she had paid her July assessment on time.
 When the date of the big vote finally came and a stormy meeting was called to order at a church down the street, Ms. Shimshowitz finished last of five candidates for three board seats. The meeting ended with a loud altercation in the audience immediately after the voting, according to the minutes.
 It was only after a neighbor approached her and said, ''I'm so sorry I couldn't vote for you,'' that Ms. Shimshowitz realized one reason why. The ballot had a star next to her name and the star pointed to a note saying ''owner in arrears with the Condominium as of 7-27.'' 
 A lien is a formal legal claim against a property, and is the first step in a process that can lead to foreclosure. Most buildings do not file liens until a debt is significant. In the history of the Future, a lien had been filed only once before, against an owner who now owes about $30,000. At the time of the new lien, five apartments in the building owed $1,300 to $3,300 but had not had liens placed on their units, Mr. Simms said. 
 Last month, after Ms. Shimshowitz had paid off the entire balance of the assessment in $100 installments, she and Mr. Simms filed suit against the board. He asked the judge, Justice Edward H. Lehner of State Supreme Court, to reinstate him to the board, and Ms. Shimshowitz asked the judge to order the removal of the lien. 
 As the lawyers were preparing for the hearing, the board decided to remove the lien, even though the late charges and legal fees had not been paid. At the hearing Judge Lehner appeared to agree that Mr. Simms had not resigned and fashioned a compromise in which the board's lawyer, Mark N. Axinn, agreed to hold its annual elections early, by mid-May rather than in late June.
 At the end of the hearing in Judge Lehner's courtroom on March 17, after the stenographer had stopped taking notes and the lawyers for both sides were packing up their briefs, the judge leaned forward and said, ''Just remember, you have to live together.''

Keeping Building Disputes Out of Court
 COURTS have significantly strengthened the powers of co-op and condo boards in recent years, but lawyers say more and more board disputes are ending up in court, including many cases in which boards or board members are accused of exceeding or abusing their powers.
 In one case decided in 2003, a state judge blocked a co-op board at 710 Park Avenue, at the corner of East 70th Street, from enforcing a new rule requiring that board members have college degrees. 
 The election rule was passed soon after a Polish emigre, Jan Feld, who had attended college in Poland for six months before coming to the United States, announced that he planned to run for the board and accused the board of incompetence and self-dealing.
 Board members said they didn't know Mr. Feld's educational background, but the judge, Justice Barbara R. Kapnick of State Supreme Court, observed in her decision that Mr. Feld had been asked about his educational background at a deposition attended by a board member.
 Morrell I. Berkowitz, a co-op and condo lawyer, said that mandatory training for board members of condominiums and co-ops in their fiduciary responsibilities might head off many disputes. 
 ''People get into a position of power and have to realize, and sometimes fail to realize, they are in charge of multimillion-dollar corporations,'' he said. ''You have to put aside your personal motivations.''
 Mary Ann Rothman, the executive director of the New York Council of Cooperatives and Condominiums, which provides training seminars for board members, said that open communication can solve many problems before a dispute goes to court. ''We are supposed to establish buildings that are communities,'' she said, ''where you have a little bit of concern for your neighbor.'' JOSH BARBANEL


GRAPHIC: Photos: A COMPLEX DISPUTE -- Avital Shimshowitz, a resident of the Future, a condo on 32nd Street, was prevented from running for the building's board. (Photographs by Mike Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
THE STONE INCIDENT -- Larry Simms questioned some finances, and later was accused of stealing stones.
 BAD FEELINGS -- The board members met recently and talked about some of the conflicts. From left, Al Urbont, Andrew Brint, Alison Gunsberger, Yolanda Pessina, Lisa Lazarus and Julio Marquez. (Photographs by Mike Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); AUDITS (64%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%) Housing; Biographical Information; Elections; Electronic Mail

PERSON: Josh Barbanel; Avital Shimshowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



566 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Musical Odyssey Leads Pianist Back to Hotel's Door

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
The hansom-cab horses snorted and snuffled on the other side of Central Park South, and the pianist Russell Sherman said three words: ''Home, sweet home.''
 He was kidding, but he could just as easily have said, ''You can't go home again.'' He was standing under the marquee of the Essex House, the hotel in which he lived as a child. His family moved there as tenants -- ''permanent guests,'' the hotel called those who checked in for more than a few nights -- in 1941, when he was 11. 
 Like Eloise at the Plaza, he had the run of the place. This was long before deep-voiced announcements near the end of ''Saturday Night Live'' plugged the Essex House as ''a breath of fresh air'' overlooking the city (for guest stars, though the announcement did not quite put it that way). Mr. Sherman, who was known as Buddy in those days, made friends with Madeline, a maid; Frank, a short-order cook at a drugstore around the corner; Leo, a pharmacist; and Stan, who presided over a nearby newsstand.
 They are all long gone. His hotel-room home, Room 327, is gone, too -- it was turned into the hotel's health spa years ago. And a city that he remembers as ''homespun and pastoral'' -- you might remember the city that way, too, if you had grown up with 843 acres just across from your front door -- has, he said the other day, become a place with sharp divisions between rich and poor. 
 When he was a boy, middle-class families lived in hotels. But the pull of the suburbs had begun, and in developments like gasoline rationing and inflation -- which spelled uncertainty and inconvenience for stateside consumers during World War II -- the Essex House saw opportunity. ''Economize comfortably,'' an Essex House advertisement in 1942 urged. ''If taxes and rising living costs make your present home a worry, come to Essex House, where two- and three-room suites make you wonder why you ever needed more.''
 Not that the Essex House was inexpensive: A two-room apartment was listed at $1,500 a month, which would now be $19,571 a month when adjusted for inflation.
 Nowadays, the hotel's Web site said, a suite is $3,000 a night, and the hotel has Gatsbyesque paintings in the lobby and chandeliers that give it a character that is decidedly different from what Mr. Sherman remembers. 
 Still, when Mr. Sherman, 75, heads to Manhattan, he makes a reservation in the same not-so-familiar place. So there he was, in from Boston for a couple of days, having a room-service salad between trying out the piano at Alice Tully Hall in preparation for his April 2 recital and having his photograph taken for the cover of a new DVD.
 Back when he lived at the Essex House, his father was a raincoat manufacturer and a New Deal Democrat who, he said, was ''beloved by all of the help and the personnel'' at the hotel. Those were the days when Walter Winchell and Ed Sullivan would stop at the bar. 
 But for a pianist-in-training, the draw was the musical stars who called the Essex House home: Sir Rudolf Bing, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, and two of his stars, Lauritz Melchior and Lily Pons. (Miss Pons kept a jaguar and spoke to it only in French. It grew so large that the maids refused to go into her apartment, even though Miss Pons said it was ''really only a large pussy cat.'')
 Clifford Curzon, the famous British pianist, also lived in the hotel. Though Mr. Curzon had a reputation as a temperamental perfectionist, he was courtly and polite in the elevators. Madeline, the maid who made up his room, knew that Buddy wanted to be a pianist. So one night, after Mr. Curzon had gone off to appear on the ''Bell Telephone Hour,'' she asked: ''Do you want to see Curzon's room?''
 As he repeats his answer now -- ''Oh boy, yeah'' -- a teenager's awe and wonder return to his voice.
 So does a teenager's disappointment as he explains what he saw when Madeline put her house key in the lock and opened the door: ''It was all cigarette butts and newspaper clippings.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Russell Sherman, 75, a pianist, at the Essex House Hotel, where he lived as a child. Mr. Sherman has a recital in New York on April 2. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
 Mr. Sherman in a childhood photograph taken at the Essex House Hotel. He reserves a room at the hotel whenever he comes to New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); FAMILY (76%); PHARMACISTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); SUBURBS (63%); GASOLINE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



567 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; INSIDE THE N.B.A.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Age Limit: One Player's Path Is Another Player's Roadblock

BYLINE: By Liz Robbins

 BODY:
It's N.C.A.A. tournament time. Do you know where your future N.B.A. stars are? Are they even allowed to stay up late to watch the games?
 While 20-year-old LeBron James prepares for his first playoff series in his second season, the issues of the proposed 20-year-old entry age limit are simmering in the N.B.A.'s collective bargaining talks. So, too, are the questions about what is best, and for whom.
 On a conference call Tuesday, Commissioner David Stern discussed how the league tied the age limit to the concept of the National Basketball Development League's serving as a feeder system. 
 Stern envisioned 15 minor league teams sharing affiliations with two N.B.A. teams each. (His vision is getting there: after next season's Southwest expansion, the development league will have 10 teams.) This would enable teams to teach players skills without stashing them on the injured list.
 ''A development league would ultimately be a place where youngsters could profit more from playing rather than be sitting on the bench,'' Stern said. 
 Indiana Pacers forward Jermaine O'Neal, who entered the draft out of high school, has been an outspoken critic of an age limit. Although he is in favor of a feeder system, he said it should not be contingent on age and cautioned about the stigma of being sent down to the development league. 
 ''Look at Dwight Howard -- there's no better way to learn than on the job,'' O'Neal said of Orlando's rebounding star, who is a strong contender for rookie of the year. ''You can't learn it in the N.B.D.L.'' 
 Nor, O'Neal said, can you learn techniques of professional basketball in college.
 ''College players play zone; you want to start helping, start helping college players play man-to-man,'' said O'Neal, who was with the Pacers in New Jersey on Tuesday as he continued to rehabilitate an injured shoulder that is expected to keep him out for the rest of the regular season.
 His sharp views offered a glimpse of a contentious issue in collective bargaining between the players and the owners this summer. It is not critical to a deal but will undoubtedly be used as leverage for other economic issues.
 O'Neal said the N.B.A. was flourishing because of high school players.
 ''At the All-Star Game, there were seven legitimate ones,'' he said. ''At what point are high school players hurting the game? They're saying that, but they're still selling jerseys. So, if they don't like it, stop selling the product. That's definitely hypocritical.''
 O'Neal spent the first four years of his career on the bench in Portland, averaging less than 5 points a game. He advocates having the N.B.A. be its own development league. 
 ''What is it that college teaches you?'' O'Neal said. ''College don't really teach you to be a great N.B.A. player on and off the court. College teaches you about college. What can better teach you about dealing with the N.B.A. than the N.B.A.? There are a lot of Duke products who don't do well in the N.B.A. We got to be fair.'' 
 To be fair, more than a few Duke products -- Grant Hill, Elton Brand, Shane Battier, Luol Deng and Chris Duhon -- have thrived. At the All-Star Game, playing alongside the straight-from-high-school contingent of O'Neal, James and Amare Stoudemire, Hill offered the counterpoint that an age limit would improve players' maturity. 
 ''I'm all for an age limit because although there are guys like LeBron and Dwight Howard, there are examples of guys where it would help them develop if they had a year or two,'' Hill said. ''I played with Korleone Young, and he's not in the league now. I think of him more than LeBron.''
 Young, the Detroit Pistons' second-round pick in 1998 and a high school all-American, lasted one season in the N.B.A. He bounced around in the minor leagues in the United States before trying Europe. Young was last known to play last summer for the Sichuan Pandas, a second-division team in China, according to the Web site Eurobasket.com.
 ''I always thought that it was the purpose of the union to protect its members, not potential members,'' said Hill, a 10-year veteran. ''I think if anyone gets left out, it's the older players, guys who put equity into this league, card-carrying members paying their dues to the union. I would hope they would be protected.''
 Historically, the union has maintained that a vast majority of players oppose age limitations and that even those who favor them want something in return in the collective bargaining agreement. Ultimately, it seems the age limit has less to do with altruism than with money and opportunity. 
 An age limit could mean fewer contracts for N.B.A. owners to sign, but perhaps the union would negotiate changes in the rookie wage scale or the veteran maximum. 
 O'Neal said the league was trying to reduce opportunity, primarily for young black players, and he said he considered race to be a factor. 
 ''If you sit down and you ask the majority of all the black basketball players,'' O'Neal said, ''you say, 'Why do you think there's so much talk about basketball players coming out at a young age, and there's no more talk how hockey and other sports have been doing it for years, decades?'''
 Stern said he had heard that argument from others; many European players, he said, say the age limit would discriminate against them.
 O'Neal had a final thought on the age limit: ''We're talking about basketball; we're not talking about going out and flying jets, which they allow them to do at that age. We're going to take care of the family and live a dream.''

Lakers Are Losing It
 As the wimpy psychologist in the movie ''The Natural'' told Robert Redford's team, ''Losing is a disease.'' 
 Frank Hamblen, interim coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, can surely relate. After the Lakers' playoff hopes dwindled to nothing when they lost their seventh straight game Thursday night to the Denver Nuggets -- a team speeding in the opposite direction -- Hamblen criticized his players' effort. 
 ''It's their livelihood,'' he told reporters. ''They're starting to erode my immune system, though, I'll tell you that.''
 Perhaps it makes more sense that Coach Rudy Tomjanovich resigned for health reasons Feb. 2. Since then, the Lakers have gone 8-17 under Hamblen, who never had designs on staying on as the coach. 
 Lamar Odom has missed the last three games with an injured shoulder, leaving Kobe Bryant to do it all.
 The Lakers are not alone in their misery. Consider the Minnesota Timberwolves, who have gone 11-8 since Kevin McHale replaced Flip Saunders as coach. At 36-34 after beating the Nets yesterday, the Timberwolves were trailing the Nuggets for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
 Since the Lakers and Minnesota met in the 2004 Western Conference finals, they have tumbled toward ignominy. They could become the first pair of conference finalists in N.B.A. history to miss the playoffs the next season.

Jumbled Jazz
 When Utah forward Andrei Kirilenko broke his wrist Thursday, it was a sad epitaph to a season of despair for the Jazz. Kirilenko signed an $86 million contract before the season but had played only 40 games because of the knee he sprained Nov. 30. 
 Carlos Boozer, a free agent who left Cleveland for a $68 million contract with the Jazz, has not played since Feb. 15 because of a strained right foot. Raul Lopez, a backup guard from Spain, had season-ending knee surgery March 12. Entering last night's game against Milwaukee, the Jazz had missed 184 player games to injury.
 After starting 6-1, Utah went 15-46. Players have clashed throughout the season with their hard-line coach, Jerry Sloan, who has questioned the attitude of some. For the first time since the 1982-83 season, the Jazz will finish with a losing record.

Certain Uncertainty
 With nine coaching changes this season, two of the remaining head men talked about the instability of the profession. 
 At nine years, San Antonio Coach Gregg Popovich has the second-longest tenure in the league, behind Jerry Sloan (17 years).
 ''It's a volatile business, and we all know that coming in,'' Popovich said in an interview last week. ''It wears on you in a lot of different ways, and you have to enjoy it and love it to do it. And then you have to be lucky to be with an organization that allows you to do what you think you can do. And then you have to hope you can win or you don't hang around long.'' 
 Popovich is the only active coach who has won two N.B.A. titles. 
 Boston Coach Doc Rivers campaigned last week for Herb Williams to remain as Knicks coach or to land a head coaching job somewhere else in the N.B.A.
 ''The rate it's going, there's going to be 28, 30 jobs open by the summer,'' Rivers said. ''So he'll have his choice.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Pacers' Jermaine O'Neal, above, who entered the N.B.A. after high school, and Orlando's Grant Hill, who played four seasons at Duke, have taken different approaches to successful N.B.A. careers. (Photos by Above, Michael Conroy/Associated Press
 right, Chris Livingston/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); INDIANA PACERS (82%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



568 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Ghostly Hospital Becomes a Live Issue

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
A PENDING state sale of the former Kings Park Psychiatric Center to a developer with tentative plans for up to 1,800 townhouse and condominium units, perhaps including a small number of lower-priced ''workforce housing'' units, is facing mounting opposition in Smithtown.
 The transfer of the 368-acre North Shore property, one of the largest undeveloped parcels remaining on the Island, would complete a state program carried out by the Empire State Development Corporation to sell three former psychiatric centers in Suffolk County to developers who agreed to clean up the properties at their own expense before building. Private owners have already taken over the other two sites, Central Islip and Pilgrim State. 
 But Patrick R. Vecchio, the Smithtown supervisor, is urging Governor Pataki to block the Kings Park sale to the Arker Companies of Woodmere. He asked Mr. Pataki to instead make the property into parkland -- adding to the 153-acre Nissequogue State Park that Mr. Pataki created on the shoreline of the former center in 1999 -- or find some other less-intensive use after talks with local officials. He also reiterated a demand that the state pay for the cleanup as a prelude to what he called intelligent development. 
 In a letter to Mr. Pataki, Mr. Vecchio said that the state policy of passing on the expense of cleaning up abandoned buildings, debris and contamination on the property, which is estimated at $50 million, would compel Arker to build intensively to cover costs. He said that would overburden schools and roads in Kings Park, a hamlet in Smithtown, and cause environmental damage.
 ''The community of Kings Park should not be forced to endure a continuing parade of speculative land use proposals and uncertainty about the future of the community,'' he said in the letter. Two earlier sales of the property fell through when developers withdrew in the face of similar opposition.
 Arker has a contract to buy the property for a reported but unconfirmed $6.5 million, but would need approval from the town, which controls zoning, for its development. It has yet to file plans but said in an application to the state's Department of Environmental Conservation for a tax credit under the state's Brownfield Cleanup Program that it wanted to build up to 1,800 units of housing. Arker would carry out the project in a joint venture with Cherokee Northeast of East Rutherford, N.J., a major developer of so-called brownfields, which are former industrial or manufacturing sites, many of them polluted. 
 Mr. Vecchio is asking the D.E.C. to reject the request because, he said, the proposed development is inconsistent with the town's waterfront revitalization plan. He has raised the same objection with Charles Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Redevelopment Corporation, which manages the sale of state-owned real estate.
 Mr. Pataki has declined to intervene. A spokesman, Andrew Rush, said Mr. Vecchio's letter was forwarded to Empire, and Ron Jury, a spokesman for Empire, said the corporation was working on a response to Mr. Vecchio. 
 Mr. Vecchio's actions are strongly backed in Kings Park, where many of the hamlet's 16,000 residents fear a flood of new public school students if the state sells to Arker.
 ''We are past concerned,'' said Edward Hogan, the school board president of the 3,000-student Kings Park Central School District. ''Our community is 97 percent residential, we have no commercial tax base whatsoever, and this would be the absolute death of Kings Park.'' 
 Mr. Hogan said community groups planned a march on April 2 from the high school to the psychiatric center's entrance to dramatize their opposition.
 Charles Gardner, president of the Kings Park Chamber of Commerce and director of consumer affairs for Suffolk County, said the chamber would take part in the march. ''There is 100-percent negative reaction to this proposal,'' he said.
 Mr. Hogan and Mr. Gardner said they favored a mixed-use development of the property including businesses or industry that would yield tax revenues for the school district.
 Mr. Vecchio came under attack from a Smithtown councilwoman, Jane Conway, for what she called his belated attempt to stave off the sale of the property. ''Stepping in at the 11th hour is better than not stepping in at all, but he is somewhat late in coming to the table,'' said Ms. Conway, a Republican who is mounting a primary race against Mr. Vecchio, the supervisor for the past 27 years. 
 Desmond Ryan, executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers' lobbying group in Hauppauge, said Mr. Vecchio has failed to provide leadership for orderly redevelopment of the site.
 ''Take into consideration that the facility has been closed for almost 10 years now,'' he said. ''And now he writes a letter to the governor saying it's time to open up a dialogue between the town and the state. It's ridiculous. Vision, leadership and political courage are not qualities you will find in the supervisor's office in Smithtown.'' 
 Mr. Vecchio said he had always played the leading role in working out the property's future. ''Desmond Ryan is a shill for the developers,'' he said.
 Allan Arker, a partner in the Arker Companies, said plans for the property were still being drafted. He said the developers would meet with local officials, school officials and Kings Park residents. ''This has got to include an exchange of ideas with community leaders,'' he said. 
 He said the development would be confined to 90 of the property's 368 acres. This would be in accord with a pledge from Mr. Pataki that three quarters of the site would be preserved. Mr. Arker gave no specifics on the number of housing units that would be designated as so-called workforce housing. He said the company was studying the reuse of some of the brick buildings that once housed patients and hoped to close on the property by late spring.
 The county executive, Steve Levy, said he favored a mixed-use development that included substantial numbers of attached one- and two-bedroom units priced for younger people. Mr. Levy said schools would not be overburdened because the tenants or owners would move up and out as they needed more living space to begin raising families. 
 But Mr. Levy said the county had limited influence over any development plan. ''The town controls the zoning, and the state controls the property,'' he said.
 Jim Morgo, the county commissioner of economic development and an advocate for workforce housing, said attached homes produced more tax revenues than they cost in services. He said any development at Kings Park that failed to provide such housing would be flawed. ''It was public property and there should be some public good served,'' he said.
 There appears to be little enthusiasm for affordable housing among Kings Park residents.
 ''Kings Park has served the needs of the State of New York and the region for over 100 years,'' Mr. Gardner of the Chamber of Commerce said of the psychiatric center, which housed almost 10,000 people at its peak in the 1950's. ''We don't feel like having the burden of everybody else's workforce housing descending on our school district.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Plans to sell the former Kings Park Psychiatric Center to a developer face opposition. (Photographs by Dan Neville/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TAX LAW (63%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



569 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Revitalizing the Banks Of Washington's 'Forgotten River'

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
PICTURE a river in Washington, D.C. -- no doubt you thought of the Potomac. But the city has another river, the Anacostia, which flows from the Maryland suburbs through eastern Washington before meeting the Potomac some two miles south of the White House.
 While the Potomac is known as the setting for many of Washington's most popular attractions, the Anacostia is actually omitted from most tourist maps. 
 Mayor Anthony Williams has called it ''Washington's forgotten river.'' The Anacostia's eastern shore is home to some 200,000 Washingtonians, many of them African-American. The west shore holds a mix of industrial, residential and recreational facilities. 
 On Saturday nights, gay bars draw crowds to a group of former warehouse buildings. After the bars empty out, churches fill up. The west side of the river is also home to a popular fish market; the Arena Stage, a nonprofit theater; a military museum at the Washington Navy Yard; and the hulking Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium.
 Still, much of the west shore is undeveloped, underdeveloped or simply down and out.
 Now the city has begun a 20-year, $8 billion plan to revitalize the Anacostia's banks. ''Growth is going to happen, and we want to make sure it results in a great waterfront,'' said Andrew Altman, who until last year was Washington's planning director. Mr. Altman now heads the quasi-public Anacostia Waterfront Initiative.
 The most eagerly awaited part of the plan may be the new baseball stadium for the Washington Nationals, in what is now a seedy industrial neighborhood at the end of South Capitol Street. The Nationals will play at nearby R.F.K. Stadium until 2008, when the new ballpark is expected to open. The architect of the stadium will be announced in the next week, Mr. Altman said.
 Another focus is the neighborhood called Near Southeast, where Kathryn Gustafson, a partner with the Seattle-based design firm Gustafson Guthrie Nichol (designer of the Princess Diana memorial in London), has been chosen to design a 1.8-acre park. The site, Mr. Altman said, is now a ''glass-strewn parking lot.''
 Eight hundred public housing units near the park are about to be torn down and replaced with 1,600 homes, some subsidized and others market rate. The federal Hope VI program, which supports replacing distressed public housing with mixed-used communities, is financing the project, and displaced residents will receive housing vouchers, Mr. Altman said. A new headquarters for the United States Department of Transportation, designed by the architect Michael Graves, and a hotel are also being built beside the park. 
 A third focus of the initiative is Washington's Southwest, which 40 years ago was one of the nation's first federally financed urban renewal areas. Rows of brick houses were demolished for concrete apartment buildings. Now, in many cases, those same buildings need renewal.
 Worse, the riverfront esplanade, separated from the buildings by up to a dozen lanes of traffic, is a series of ''completely failed public spaces,'' Mr. Altman said. ''We need to start over.''
 When the Southwest neighborhood is completed, Mr. Altman said, ''it will redefine the skyline of Washington.'' 
 But that could take time. Until January, the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, the nation's largest backer of home mortgages, had been expected to move several thousand employees from Washington's pricey Northwest to the site of an outmoded mall in Southwest. A partnership including Forest City Enterprises, a developer from Cleveland, was prepared to spend some $700 million on the project, dubbed Waterfront.
 But then Fannie Mae discovered accounting irregularities that threw $9 billion of its previously reported profits into question. It pulled out of the development. ''Obviously, the decision was due to the accounting issues,'' said Alfred King, a spokesman for Fannie Mae.
 But Fannie Mae's attempt to improve its financial prospects -- termed a ''capital recovery'' -- puts a different kind of capital recovery at risk. The agency's pullout ''leaves us with a big hole,'' Mr. Altman conceded.
 In this case, not everyone hates a hole. The new development would have blocked the river views that some long-term Southwest residents enjoy. ''There have been some incredibly antagonistic community meetings,'' Mr. Altman said, noting that some people have wondered how a 10-story building could be put up by the water. ''But I remind them that they're living in a 10-story building right now,'' he said.
 To those residents, Fannie Mae's pullout, which slows down redevelopment of the neighborhood, may be welcome. David Smith, the development manager for Forest City Enterprises, said that, with Fannie Mae no longer Waterfront's lead tenant, ''we are brainstorming; we are trying to determine how to go forward.''
 In the meantime, Arena Stage, just a couple of blocks from the Waterfront site, is moving ahead with its own $100 million expansion. A futuristic building by the Canadian architect Bing Thom will unite the two existing theater spaces and a new third one under a swoopy roof. Nearby, the National Children's Museum is planning a new building by the architect Cesar Pelli.
 One thing is for sure: the new development is drawing attention to the Anacostia River.
 Toni Griffin, a deputy planning director now detailed to the waterfront initiative, recalls taking a boat trip with civic leaders on the Anacostia a couple of years ago. One of the district's bigwigs -- she'd rather not say who -- pointed to the south and announced, ''That's Virginia.'' In fact, it's southeast Washington, home to, among other landmarks, the Frederick Douglass National Historic Site.
 Ms. Griffin was not surprised by the mistake. It was proof, she said, ''of the real need for people to appreciate this resource, the river that runs through our city.''
 Mr. Altman agreed. ''Our goal,'' he said, ''is to put the Anacostia back on the map.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RIVER PROJECT -- A 20-year, $8 billion plan to revive areas along the Anacostia, including South Capitol Street, above, is under way. Among the projects is the Waterfront Mall, top left. The west side of the river is home to R.F.K. Stadium. (Photographs by Jay Talbott for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BASEBALL (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); TRENDS (73%); THEATER (73%); MILITARY BASES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RELIGION (68%); NAVIES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Baseball; Rfk Stadium (Washington, DC); Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: Washington Nationals

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (50%) Fred A Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%) Washington (DC); Anacostia River

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



570 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; COMMUNITIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: In Bayonne, Lights, Camera, Action!

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: BAYONNE 

 BODY:
BOB RUSSO, a 56-year-old retired truck driver, remembers traveling from his home in Jersey City as a young man to see the girl in Bayonne who would become his wife.
 And like many couples in those days, their dates were usually spent at the movies, watching Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis competing in a screwball car race in ''The Great Race,'' Steve McQueen on an American gunboat plying the Yangtze River in ''The Sand Pebbles,'' or Paul Scofield as Sir Thomas More in ''A Man for All Seasons.''
 ''When we'd come out of the DeWitt, we'd buy a hot dog at the Petridis hot dog truck that was always parked outside,'' Mr. Russo recalled. ''Even if you came out at 11:30 p.m. or midnight, there would always be a line.'' 
 There were once a half-dozen movie theaters in this close-knit working-class city of nearly 62,000 residents, the birthplace -- it should be noted -- of the actress Sandra Dee, known to family and friends as Alexandra Cymboliak Zuck. But by the time Mr. Russo's son and daughter were old enough to go to the movies, he had to take them to Jersey City. The last two theaters in Bayonne -- the Lyceum and the DeWitt -- closed in the 1970's. 
 ''By the time the kids came around,'' Mr. Russo said, ''the theaters were pretty much gone.'' 
 Now, for the first time in nearly 30 years, Bayonne residents will soon be able to go to the movies again without having to leave town. After several attempts in about the last seven years to open a theater here -- complicated by a lawsuit and the declining fortunes of several movie chains -- a multiplex is scheduled to open in May. 
 For Mayor Joseph V. Doria Jr., you could say it is a marquee event, since it will ''help boost business,'' especially restaurants. 
 ''People will be able to have a movie and dinner in town at last,'' he said. 
 And maybe something they had lost, something communal. The talk of the theater certainly evoked memories for residents like Mr. Russo, who was shopping at the Super Stop and Shop in the mall where the theater will open, and even the mayor, speaking from City Hall -- memories of a time when theaters were gilded palaces and part of the town's social fabric. 
 The 58-year-old Mr. Doria remembered that as a child, he, his mother, aunt and cousins visited the Victory, a former opera house, almost every Wednesday, because the management gave away china to lure people from their television sets. 
 He also recalled that in 1960, when he was a teenager, Sandra Dee, who died last month at age 62, returned triumphantly to her hometown for the screening of ''A Summer Place,'' in which she starred with Troy Donahue, on what had been proclaimed Sandra Dee Day. 
 ''The DeWitt had a big celebration,'' Mayor Doria said. ''She came in an evening dress. There were klieg lights outside. The seats were filled because everyone wanted to see not only the movie but Sandra Dee, returning as a princess, a star.''
 In recent weeks, workers have been installing plumbing and electrical systems in the 30,000-square-foot building -- trimmed in rose and beige stone -- that will house the South Cove Theater, in the South Cove Commons Mall. Bruce Frank, president of Frank Theaters, a third-generation, family-owned theater chain based in Pleasantville, near Atlantic City, said he hoped to open the 14-screen theater on May 19 with the last installment of ''Star Wars.'' 
 Mr. Frank, speaking from Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., said that the theater would feature stadium seats with high backs, which, at 24 inches, would be wider than most theater chairs. And, he said, the concession areas would be upscale, experimenting with foods like popcorn shrimp and cheese sticks. 
 ''We're really excited,'' Mr. Frank said. ''South Cove is going to be a great theater for us and the city.'' 
 It will have been a long time coming.
 The DeWitt, on Broadway and 25th Street, where a McDonald's now stands, went out of business in 1975, said Joseph E. Ryan, Bayonne's public information director. The last theater, the Lyceum, on Broadway and 38th Street, home to a Quick Chek Food Store today, closed three years later. 
 In the late 1990's, the Alessi Organization, a 45-year-old family-run development company in Bayonne, was building South Cove and contracted with Hoyt Cinemas, an Australian theater chain, to operate a theater. 
 At the same time, the owners of the Garden State News on Broadway near 21st Street bought Wigdor's Jewelry Store next door and tore it down for a theater to be operated by Clearview Cinemas, which was subsequently taken over by Cablevision Systems Corporation. 
 South Cove filed a suit in 1998 -- later thrown out -- to stop the Clearview project. Vincent Alessi, president of the Alessi Organization, said it was actually a legal battle between Hoyt and Clearview. In the end, Cablevision chose not to build the theater on Broadway, and today, swamp grass is sprouting from the concrete foundation of the proposed theater. 
 Hoyt Cinemas, which, coincidentally, had bought Frank Theaters' operations in 1996, developed financial problems and pulled out of the American market. That left South Cove with the shell of a theater for three years. ''We aggressively sought out strong operators, primarily operators that had the financial capability to complete the interior of the theater and run a first-run theater,'' Mr. Alessi said. ''Someone who had experience running family theaters in downtowns or small towns.''
 City officials say an incentive that attracted Frank Theaters was Bayonne's designation as an Urban Enterprise Zone in 2001, which let the company buy construction material to complete the theater's interior without having to pay state sales tax. Last summer, the City Council designated the theater site a redevelopment area, making it eligible for other economic benefits.
 Bruce Frank's grandfather, Samuel, started the company in 1921. It expanded under Bruce's father, Alvin, until the company owned 150 screens in 21 New Jersey municipalities from Woodbridge to Cape May. 
 After Hoyt left, the Franks bought back the business in 2003 and now operate theaters in Beach Haven Park, Cape May, Egg Harbor, Stone Harbor and two locations in Ocean City, with plans to expand in New Jersey and other states. 
 Still, it is hard to please everyone.
 At the Stop and Shop in Bayonne, Gary Bielan, 52, a ramp agent for Delta Airlines at Newark Liberty International Airport, said the theater's location, on Route 440 at 32nd Street near the marine terminal and away from the main part of town, was difficult for elderly people like his 80-year-old mother to get to. ''I'm looking forward to it, I really am,'' Mr. Bielan said. ''I just wish it was more accessible to the senior citizens.'' 
 Another shopper, Sally Pelowitz, 69, said she did not go to the movies much anymore but would probably make an exception for the new theater. ''Oh, definitely,'' Ms. Pelowitz said. ''I would take my grandchildren.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A movie theater is coming soon to South Cove Commons Mall. The late actress Sandra Dee, left, was from Bayonne. (Photographs by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times [top] and Photofest) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); FILM (90%); MAYORS (86%); CITIES (78%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); YANGTZE RIVER (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



571 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Cited in Transfer of High-Tech Gear

BYLINE: By JENNY NORDBERG

 BODY:
A Pakistani businessman with close ties to the country's military has been barred from doing business with American companies because federal investigators found that he had improperly bought high-tech components here that could be used in nuclear weapons.
 An order issued by the Commerce Department on Jan. 31 says the businessman, Humayun Khan, violated export regulations by trying to route American-made oscilloscopes and switches to Pakistan via South Africa, circumventing federal nuclear nonproliferation regulations.
 The exports came to light last year, when Asher Karni, an Israeli citizen living in South Africa, was arrested in Denver on suspicion of illegally buying the equipment for delivery to Mr. Khan's company. It was not clear why it was only this year that the Commerce Department prohibited the involvement of Mr. Khan and his company, Pakland PME Corporation, in any exports from the United States for 180 days. 
 The order, which was issued Jan. 31, was first reported yesterday by The Los Angeles Times. 
 It cites evidence that Mr. Khan conspired to export the components secretly between July 2003 and January 2004. Export of the high-tech devices -- switches used both in medical equipment and nuclear weapons, and the oscilloscopes, which are used for testing electronic equipment -- to Pakistan requires clearance from the Commerce Department. 
 According to the order, which was published Feb. 7 in the Federal Register, Mr. Khan was also involved in unauthorized American exports to a military supplier, Al-Technique Corporation of Pakistan, a company on a federal nonproliferation watch list.
 Mr. Khan could not be reached for comment yesterday, but in an interview with The New York Times last year about the Karni case, he denied taking part in any smuggling of American technology to Pakistan. He said that his company made deliveries mostly to colleges and high school chemistry laboratories, but that he also occasionally bought equipment for Pakistan's military. 
 In the past year, investigations have separately tried to understand the black market network in nuclear technology orchestrated by A.Q. Khan, the founder of Pakistan's nuclear program. The network provided nuclear technology for years to other countries, including North Korea, Libya and Iran. 
 Dr. Khan, who is not related to Humayun Khan, was pardoned by President Pervez Musharraf but placed under house arrest. American investigators have not been allowed to interview him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS TEST EQUIPMENT (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); ARRESTS (75%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); CHEMISTRY (63%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



572 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2718 words

HEADLINE: For Recruiters, a Hard Toll From a Hard Sell

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Margot Williams contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The Army's recruiters are being challenged with one of the hardest selling jobs the military has asked of them in American history, and many say the demands are taking a toll.
 A recruiter in New York said pressure from the Army to meet his recruiting goals during a time of war has given him stomach problems and searing back pain. Suffering from bouts of depression, he said he has considered suicide. Another, in Texas, said he had volunteered many times to go to Iraq rather than face ridicule, rejection and the Army's wrath.
 An Army chaplain said he had counseled nearly a dozen recruiters in the past 18 months to help them cope with marital troubles and job-related stress. 
 ''There were a couple of recruiters that felt they were having nervous breakdowns, literally,'' said Maj. Stephen Nagler, a chaplain who retired in March after serving at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn, where the New York City recruiting battalion is based. 
 Two dozen recruiters nationwide were interviewed about their experiences over four months. Ten spoke with The New York Times even after an Army official sent an e-mail message advising all recruiters not to speak to this reporter, who was named. Most asked for anonymity to avoid being disciplined.
 A handful who spoke said they were satisfied with their jobs. They said they took pride in seeing awkward, unfocused teenagers transform into confident soldiers and relished an opportunity to contribute to the Army effort.
 But most told similar tales: of loving the military, of working hard to complete a seemingly impossible task, of struggling to carry the nation's burden at a time of anxiety and stress.
 The careers and self-esteem of recruiters rise and fall on their ability to fulfill a mission, said current and former Army officials and military experts who were also interviewed. 
 Recruiters said falling short often generates a barrage of angry correspondence, formal reprimands, threats or even demotion.
 ''The recruiter is stuck in the situation where you're not going to make mission, it just won't happen,'' the New York recruiter said. ''And you're getting chewed out every day for it. It's horrible.'' He said the assignment was more strenuous than the time he was shot at while deployed in Africa.
 At least 37 members of the Army Recruiting Command, which oversees enlistment, have gone AWOL since October 2002, Army figures show. And, in what recruiters consider another sign of stress, the number of improprieties committed -- signing up unqualified people to meet quotas or giving bonuses or other enlistment benefits to recruits not eligible for them -- has increased, Army documents show. 
 ''They don't necessarily have real bullets flying at them,'' said Major Nagler. ''But there are different kind of bullets they need to contend with -- the bullets of not producing numbers, of having a station commander shoot them down.''
 The Army is seeking 101,200 new active-duty Army and Reserve soldiers this year alone to replenish the ranks in Iraq and Afghanistan, elsewhere around the world and at home. That means each of the Army's 7,500 recruiters faces the grind of an unyielding human math, a quota of two new recruits a month, at a time of extended war without a draft.
 The mission puts them in a different kind of cross-fire: On one side, the military's requirement that new soldiers be found. On the other, resistance by many parents to Army careers for their children in wartime.
 Maj. Gen. Michael D. Rochelle, commander of the Army Recruiting Command, acknowledged it is a stressful time for recruiters, who face ''the toughest challenge to the all-volunteer Army'' since it began in 1973.
 ''I do not deny being demanding,'' said General Rochelle, leader of the command since 2002. ''We have a vitally important mission in terms of providing volunteers for an army that is at war and that is growing.''
 He said the Army has already added recruiters and taken measures to expand the pool of potential soldiers, by accepting older recruits and more people without high school diplomas. Other changes are being considered, he said.
 But many recruiters said the Army continues to minimize how difficult it has become to find qualified volunteers during a war and in a growing economy.
 For the first time in nearly five years, the Army missed its active-duty recruiting goal in February. The Reserve has missed its monthly quota since October. Army officials said the goals would most likely be missed the next two months as well.
 Gen. Richard A. Cody, Army vice chief of staff, told Congress on March 16 that he is concerned about whether the Army can continue to provide the troops the nation needs. 
 ''What keeps me awake at night,'' he said, ''is what will this all-volunteer force look like in 2007?''
 The Marines also missed monthly recruiting goals in January, for the first time in a decade. The Navy and Air Force, which provide fewer people for the war, are on track to meet their quotas.
 Trying to refill the ranks solely through recruitment in wartime is rare. Historians say the Spanish-American War, Mexican-American War and Gulf war were the only major conflicts since 1775 that did not rely, in part, on conscripts.
 Since 1973, the Army has usually maintained an all-volunteer force of a million active-duty, Reserve and National Guard soldiers, primarily through a marketing campaign that promoted opportunities for adventure, new skills, college money and other personal goals -- enticements that, in wartime, often do not outweigh fear of combat and death, Army surveys show.
 While some in Congress have raised the specter of a draft, the Bush administration has rejected that idea, saying higher skilled soldiers are needed in a high-tech age, and are best found through recruitment.
 But several senior officers interviewed, including Col. Greg Parlier, retired, who until 2002 headed the research and strategy arm of the Army Recruiting Command, said the pressure on recruiters shows the policy should be re-examined, and initiatives like national service should be considered.

Courting Mom and Dad
 The Army is the nation's largest military branch, comprising 80 percent of the 150,000 troops in Iraq. Its recruiters are among its best soldiers. Most are sergeants with 5 to 15 years of experience, pulled randomly from the top 10 percent of their specialty, as defined by their commanding officers. More than 70 percent did not volunteer for the job.
 Some soldiers are better suited to the task than others. Staff Sgt. Jose E. Zayas, 42, is outgoing, bilingual and embraces his mission. Recently, canvassing in the Bronx, he had little trouble persuading a couple from Massachusetts to accept a few pamphlets. 
 But for every Sergeant Zayas, there is a recruiter like Sgt. Joshua Harris, 29, a former personnel administrator in a New Jersey recruiting station, who struggles when talking to strangers. Seven weeks of instruction in approaching prospects helped him, he said. But many recruiters said few soldiers possess the skills they need. 
 Recruiters are paid about $30,000 a year, plus housing and other allowances, including $450 a month in special-duty pay for recruiting. They live where they recruit, often hundreds of miles from a base.
 These men, and occasionally women, spend several hours a day cold-calling high school students, whose phone numbers are provided by schools under the No Child Left Behind Law. They also must ''prospect'' at malls, at high schools, colleges and wherever else young people gather. 
 The follow-up process often takes months. Though parents do not have to sign off on the decision to join, recruiters said it is virtually impossible to enlist a new recruit without their approval. Over dinners and on the phone, they make the Army's case over and over to win parents' support.
 If they succeed, they are responsible for bringing the recruit in for 5:30 a.m. processing , organizing physical fitness training or, in the case of one California recruiter, taking 3 a.m. phone calls to comfort a recruit crying over a breakup with her boyfriend. 
 The whims are many from the young, restless and uncertain, experts said. 
 Recruiters have ''the only military occupation that deals with the civilian world entirely,'' said Charles Moskos, a military sociologist at Northwestern University. 
 Even before the war, recruiters contacted on average of 120 people before landing an active-duty recruit, Army data showed. That number is growing, recruiters said. 
 One recruiter in the New York area said that when he steps outside his office for a cigarette, he often is barraged with epithets from passers-by angry about the war. 
 In January, the brother-in-law of a prospective recruit lashed into him. ''He swore at me,'' the recruiter said, ''and said that he would rather have his brother-in-law in jail for selling crack than in the Army.''
 The recruiter said, when out of uniform, he often lies about his profession. ''I tell them I work in human resources,'' he said. 
 Still, they must sign up two recruits a month. Anyone with outstanding criminal cases, health problems or poor test scores is disqualified. Most months, at least one must have a high school diploma and score in the top 50 percent of an aptitude test.
 Lt. Col. William F. Adams, a psychologist at the United States Military Academy who has counseled recruiters, empathized with the pressure but said it came with the job. Of the recruiting goal, he said, ''It is not a goal or a target; it is a mission. If you don't do it, you're a failure.''
 A December report from the commanding officers overseeing about 40 recruiters in West Houston reflects the mission-driven culture of recruitment. Sent by e-mail to station commanders, it started by declaring, ''We can sum up the month of Dec with one word -- Unprofessional!'' 
 The document noted that in a month's-end drive to meet quota, seven recruits had appeared for processing. Of those, two did not meet weight requirements and needed a waiver, while two others lacked paperwork. 
 ''We are processing crap,'' the report stated, ''double and triple waivers, waivers which get approved and the applicant refuses to enlist (two this month), waivers on people with more than 20 charges, etc. We are putting these people in our Army!''
 The cause, it said, was a lack of leadership: ''I challenged you to fix your stations. No one has stepped forward.''
 Asked to respond to the document, the Houston recruiting battalion declined.
 The report was followed on Jan. 6 by an e-mail message from Command Sgt. Maj. Frank Norris, the second in command of 212 recruiters in and around Houston, threatening to deny all requests for leave.
 ''There are no excuses and I am tired of entertaining such lack of discipline and focus,'' he said in the e-mail message forwarded to The Times by a recruiter who received it. ''Let this serve notice that any station commander that is holding this great battalion back will not be a station commander in this battalion very much longer.''
 Neither document contained any mention of the war, nor other possible obstacles. Sergeant Major Norris declined through an Army spokesman to be interviewed. General Rochelle said most battalions do not resort to such tactics.

Brawling Over Prospects
 The recruiter in New York who had considered suicide said he has seen at least four marriages break up among the 9 or 10 recruiters in his area since 2002. He said he has been subjected to threats of discharge and ''zero-roller training,'' when superiors comb through recruiters' phone logs and other materials, then lambaste them for failing to enlist anyone. 
 After more than a decade in the military, he said he still loves the Army. ''It's just this detail,'' he said. ''This is hell.'' 
 A Texas recruiter -- a gruff man whose home is decorated with military commendations -- said that he suffers from severe headaches lasting up to six hours. ''I never had them until I got out here,'' he said. ''They're from recruiting.'' 
 He and other recruiters said they sometimes feel angry enough to hit someone. Two years ago, he said, two recruiters in his office brawled over who should get credit for a new recruit. ''We call this the pressure plate, like on a land mine,'' he said, pointing to the recruiter patch on his uniform. ''If you push it too hard, we'll explode.''
 His wife, like spouses in California and elsewhere, is furious at what she sees as the Army's lack of support. ''What we are doing is good; recruiting is good and important work,'' she said. ''But the fact of the matter is that it's killing our soldiers.'' 
 Many of the recruiters said they have asked for other assignments. One of them is Sgt. Latrail Hayes. Now 27, Sergeant Hayes enlisted in the Army 10 years ago, out of high school in Virginia Beach, continuing a family tradition of military service. He volunteered to be a recruiter in 2000, after 52 jumps as a paratrooper, and at first his easy charm, appeals to patriotism and offers of Army benefits enticed dozens of recruits.
 But Sergeant Hayes said he started rethinking his assignment as the war went on. Mothers required months, not weeks, of persuasion. And stories he heard from some of his recruits who had gone to Iraq and Afghanistan made him reluctant to pursue prospects by emphasizing the Army's benefits. When his cousin, whom he had recruited, returned from Iraq with psychological trauma, he filed for conscientious objector status in June, to get a new assignment. 
 The application was rejected in November. Now, instead of serving 20 years in the Army, he intends to leave in December, when his tour ends. ''There's a deep human connection when you try to persuade someone to do something you've done,'' he said. ''So when it turns into something else -- maybe even the opposite -- it's difficult.''
 Some recruiters said they witnessed more ''improprieties,'' which the Army defines as any grossly negligent or intentional act or omission used to enlist unqualified applicants or grant benefits to those who are ineligible. They said recruiters falsified documents and told prospects to lie about medical conditions or police records. 
 An analysis of Army records shows that the number of impropriety allegations doubled to 1,023 in 2004 from 490 in 2000. Initial investigations substantiated 459 violations of Army enlistment standards in 2004, up from 186 in 2000. In 135 cases, recruiters -- often more than one -- were judged to have committed improprieties, up from 113 in 2000. The rest were defined as errors.
 General Rochelle acknowledged that the impropriety figures ''may be a reflection of some of the pressure that is perceived at the lower levels.'' He also said that the increase could partly be explained by improvements in tracking violations.
 ''We hold every recruiter responsible for being a living and breathing example of Army values,'' he said. 
 The quotas will remain unchanged, General Rochelle said. But the commanders should be held responsible for finding ways to meet their goals. ''It does no good to pass the heat, as it were, or the correction down to the individual soldier,'' he said.
 The Army announced in September that it would add about 1,200 active-duty and Reserve recruiters to the field. It has also more than doubled bonuses for three-year enlistments to $15,000 and increased its advertising budget. 
 For the first time since 1998, the Army has lowered its standards, last week increasing its age limit for Reserve and National Guard recruits to 39. Last year, it agreed to accept thousands more recruits without high school diplomas.
 In a small concession to recruiters, Army brass announced in February that they can trade the green slacks and shirts that they said made them feel and look like security guards for battle fatigues. 
 General Rochelle said the uniform swap was part of a new recruiting strategy to stress patriotism over salesmanship and enlist veterans to help make the Army's pitch. ''It's less materialistic, in terms of the focus, once we get a recruiter face to face with a young American,'' he said.
 The recruiter in Texas, for one, said the changes are too little too late. He said he would prefer to be in Iraq. 
 ''I'd rather be getting shot at, because at least I'd be with my guys,'' he said. ''I'm infantry. That's what I'm trained to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker covering broken glass at the Army recruiting station in East Orange, N.J., in February. The glass was smashed the night before a rally by antiwar protesters. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
Sgt. Latrail Hayes, a recruiter who sought conscientious objector status
a rally this month at the Times Square recruiting station. (Photo by Left, Marty Katz for The New York Times
Shannon Stapleton/Reuters)(pg. 33)
 Sgts. Emil L. Santiago, seated, and Jeremy Billings make their pitch at the University of Houston. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); DEPRESSION (71%); SUICIDE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



573 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Strikes? Drugs? We Love Sports Too Much to Walk Away

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You have probably heard the one about how Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa saved baseball.
 With the game still hung over from its 1994 strike, Sosa and McGwire slugged baseball back into the hearts and minds of the American people during the summer of 1998. They fought until the regular season's final weekend to be the new home run king, even distracting a nation lurching through a presidential sex scandal.
 ''I definitely think we've brought the country together and helped make baseball a sport that people care about and talk about again,'' McGwire said that September. ''I definitely think it's the national pastime again.'' 
 Offering his own coda, Commissioner Bud Selig said, ''I would say we are back, that we have pretty much repaired all of the attendance damage.''
 Here is what the facts say: hooey.
 You will have a hard time finding any evidence that McGwire's and Sosa's pursuit of Roger Maris's single-season record lifted attendance. The average number of people at a major league baseball game increased more in 1996 and in 1997 than it did in 1998. In 1999, with the stirring home run chase still fresh in fans' minds, attendance fell slightly. 
 More people did watch baseball on television during the 1998 regular season. But the ratings for every playoff round fell, according to Nielsen Media Research. World Series ratings were the lowest ever. 
 The legend of McGwire and Sosa has begun making the rounds again in recent weeks, this time as a sad foreshadowing of baseball's steroid troubles. With McGwire's refusal to answer questions about whether he took steroids, the supposedly singular moment of baseball last decade has become tarnished. Did baseball need an infusion of illegal drug use, some people seem to be wondering, to survive?
 That is why a look at reality should be so refreshing. It offers a much sunnier picture, if not a quite so simple one as the mythology does.
 Journalists, baseball executives and players like to construct tidy narratives to explain the ups and downs of the game. It is part of a deep human desire to tell stories that make sense of a messy world. 
 Player strikes and owner lockouts are cast as the villains that cause disgusted fans to turn their backs on a sport. Gimmicks like baseball's interleague play receive credit for enthralling fans. Slugging stars, even if they are playing in the middle of the country, are supposed to fill seats in Anaheim, Calif., and Miami. 
 Baseball's 1994 strike aside, though, work stoppages rarely damage attendance in any sport.
 After the 1981 strike, attendance snapped right back, hitting a record high in 1982. The two National Football League strikes during the 1980's and the 1994 National Hockey League lockout did no long-term damage to attendance in those sports, according to a study by two economists, Martin B. Schmidt and David J. Berri.
 ''Rich people fight over money,'' Berri, a professor at California State University Bakersfield, said. ''It happens all over the place. That's why they're rich. If you're going to get upset about it, you're going to get upset about everything.''
 Schmidt, a professor at William and Mary, and Berri argue that fans' resilience enables owners and players to cancel a portion of their seasons so often. They know that people will come back. The games are just too good. Unlike most forms of entertainment, sports build up to outcomes that are not predetermined. It is the original reality television.
 What this means for the N.H.L., now approaching a full year without play, is a little murky. Hockey fans are famously intense, if not all that numerous, and they may well come back as strong as they did after the last lockout. Then again, the only other recent work stoppage to cancel the playoffs was baseball's 1994 strike, which was clearly damaging.
 But the lesson for baseball is plain, if the people running the game want to see it. Baseball does not need overmuscled stars or shattered records to prosper. A serious drug-testing program would threaten cheating players, not the sport itself. All that baseball needs to thrive is good baseball. 
 Fans do seem to prefer offense to pitching, but satisfying them requires no change; this is a hitters' era. Beyond that, two of the biggest attendance jumps came after two of the best postseasons: 1975, the year of Carlton Fisk's iconic home run down the left-field line, and 2003, when Aaron Boone hit his version of the same. 
 You have heard of Fisk and Boone, right? They're the guys who saved baseball. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (86%); STEROIDS (86%); LOCKOUTS (85%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SCANDALS (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); WRITERS (61%); STRIKES (60%); SEX SCANDALS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



574 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: A Triple Play for New York Teams

 BODY:
Lately, New Yorkers have had a lot of opportunity to think about what the world owes professional sports. Lawsuits, charges and countercharges are flying over the proposed Jets football stadium like so many Hail Mary passes. The Nets have a deal with the city, and the Yankees could announce one soon. As it stands now, the public investment on these projects would be more than $1 billion, and that does not count the Mets, who will inevitably be heard from, or the Nascar racetrack being planned for Staten Island. While each plan should be judged on its own merits, those numbers defy reason.
 The city should do what it reasonably can to keep and attract pro sports. That means using normal development tools like eminent domain rights and access to government-owned parcels of land. Teams have also become used to getting a financing break on construction through tax-exempt bonds, although Congress has begun to complain that the practice deprives the federal Treasury of tens of millions of dollars a year. 
 But given the enormous profitability of this sports market, the idea of adding on public subsidies is ridiculous. Sports teams should pay their own way. That includes ''infrastructure improvements,'' unless that infrastructure is something that was already wanted and needed by the community. The community, by the way, should be consulted whether the law requires it or not.
 Here is how we would rate the current deals:

THE JETS ON THE WEST SIDE -- The Bloomberg administration very much wants the Jets to win the right to build a stadium on the Hudson River. Whether the team can beat back a competing bid for the site is still up in the air. But if football wins the day, the city and state are prepared to spend at least $600 million to help erect the most expensive stadium in the nation. That money would build a platform over the state-owned railyard on the site, and a roof, so the space could do duty for conventions and other events (including the Super Bowl, which the team has strategically secured for 2010). The Jets should pay for both, as well as for a tunnel to connect the stadium to the Javits Convention Center. This is precisely the kind of infrastructure deal that is generated by the team's needs and not the community's.

THE NETS IN BROOKLYN -- The developer Bruce Ratner of the Forest City Ratner Companies (which is the partner of The Times in the building of its new headquarters) wants to build a Frank Gehry-designed arena in downtown Brooklyn for the team, which was purchased last year from its New Jersey owners. But the plan is really about offices, retail space and -- most of all -- housing. The developer has said that half of the proposed 4,500 residential units would be put aside for tenants of low to middle income.
 A mixed-use development like this could be a shot in the arm for the local economy. The low- and moderate-income housing units would be a big plus, and the developer has agreed to pay fair market value for the railyards at the site. But the city and state are each supposed to contribute $100 million to build streets and sidewalks and prepare the site for development. That's unnecessary: Mr. Ratner should pay his own way. He should also make more of an effort to work with the community. 

THE YANKEES IN THE BRONX -- While a plan is still being negotiated, the team seems to be acting like a superstar free agent and asking for the moon. The team is reportedly expecting the city and state to pitch in $300 million to build, among other things, a parking garage that would be used mostly during games. That is wrong, and if the city intends to give the Yankees Macombs Dam Park for its new site, the team -- not the taxpayers -- should pay to replace that open space elsewhere. The Yankees can boast that they would pay for the stadium -- about $750 million -- but under new rules they can deduct capital costs from annual payments to the league, so they will hardly feel the pinch.
 The Yankees have the richest franchise in the league, and they have played the better part of a century in a depressed area of the South Bronx without adding much to the neighborhood. There are plenty of ways the team can give back, including helping to build affordable housing, schools and retail space in the area. The Yankees should also preserve at least the facade of the beloved House That Ruth Built.
 Economic development is a good thing, when the target is right. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's administration has delivered some worthy investments, like the more than $50 million that helped build a new Museum of Modern Art and the $100 million spent to bring improvements, including the Fulton Fish Market, to the distressed Hunts Point neighborhood in the Bronx and surrounding neighborhoods. But major professional sports teams just don't need the assistance. Government officials should be negotiating from positions of power, instead of standing ready to give away the store when professional teams bat an eye in New York's direction.
 Maybe the city needs to get over abandonment issues that date back to the departure of the Dodgers. That kind of betrayal is not likely today. The Jets did leave when the city was struggling and needed them, but they only crossed the Hudson. And now, of course, they would like to come back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); NASCAR RACING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RATNER COS (80%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK METS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (80%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



575 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; That Burger-Flipper Is No Kid Anymore; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Few New York Teenagers Work, and Many Aren't Even Looking

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Less than a quarter of New York City's teenagers hold jobs -- a figure far below the national average -- leaving the city's kitchens, retail stores, gas stations and construction sites bereft of the young workers they traditionally employ.
 Even more striking, according to the federal government, is that most are not even looking for work.
 Jobs that once gave teenagers their first taste of long days, clock-punching and the particular pleasures of interacting with the general public are now filled by older workers, a reality that could lead to a future work force with fewer skills and less practical work experience than any in a generation, labor experts say. 
 The city's teenagers have always worked less than the rest of the nation's youth, in large part because of a general surplus in the city's overall labor force, and because New York teenagers are more likely to be in school.
 But the numbers of teenagers seeking jobs in the city have thinned at a far faster rate than in the rest of the country in the last 15 years, coinciding with a period of explosive growth in the immigrant population in the city. Over the same period, record numbers of people left the welfare rolls for low-wage jobs. 
 Only 22 percent of New Yorkers from 16 to 19 looked for work in 2004, according to the Department of Labor, compared with 44 percent of their counterparts nationwide. Of all teenagers who were eligible to work, only 22 percent of New York teenagers did so, compared with 36 percent around the country. In 1989, 31 percent of New York City residents from 16 to 19 worked.
 ''We have an indigenous teenage population that is not getting work skills comparable with teenagers in other parts of the country,'' said Michael L. Dolfman, a regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ''We have such tremendous immigration in the city, both legal and illegal, that people with tremendous skills and those who are not skilled take jobs that teenagers might take.'' 
 The picture is most stark for young men, who have a much harder time finding work than their female counterparts, reflecting the city's shift over the last two decades from an economy that makes goods to one that provides services. Service jobs, historically, have been dominated by women. For economists tracking the city's poorest young male residents -- who tend to be neither working nor in school -- that trend is alarming. 
 A recent study by the Community Service Society found that 16.2 percent of the city's men between 16 and 24 were ''disconnected'' -- not working or in school -- compared with 7.7 percent nationally, while 15.8 percent of New York women fall into the category, compared with 13.2 percent for the nation.
 ''So much of entry-level employment for those without much education or work experience involves service work,'' said Mark Levitan, an economist with the Community Service Society. ''And that is traditionally female work. We have a shift in the kind of workers people are looking for now because those jobs are an ever-increasing proportion of available jobs in the city as it has shifted from a one that makes goods to a city that provides services.''
 This is painfully clear to Jonathan Espaillat, 17, who has tried many times in recent years to get a job the traditional way -- by walking in and applying -- only to find much better results working through friends and family. 
 ''Every time I go to apply for a job,'' said Mr. Espaillat, a high school senior who is unemployed but has worked as a library helper and a tutor, ''I only see young attractive females there, and while they say they are looking for help, they never call me. No young male can get a job in this city unless you're an immigrant who is willing to work all day for low pay.''
 There is no direct proof that immigrants -- or any other specific group -- are now doing the jobs that teenagers once gravitated toward. But demographic and social trends highlight strong possibilities.
 The City Planning Department estimates that there are now 3.2 million immigrants in New York City, a record, and that immigrants make up 43 percent of its labor force. 
 Immigrants have a strong presence in industries that also tend to draw first-time workers. They make up 64 percent of those employed in the city's manufacturing industries, the department says, and 54 percent of workers in the food and accommodation businesses. 
 Mr. Levitan also cited the rise of working single mothers during the last 10 years -- when the number of people on New York's welfare rolls fell to 425,000 from 1.1 million and welfare laws changed -- as a factor in replacing teenagers in retailing and other service jobs. ''There is a premium on the ability to interact with customers,'' he said, ''and females have a much better reputation on that score than males do. Welfare leavers who found success were those who came into a job market looking for female traits.''
 But as is often the case with the immigrant work force, many of those workers are taking jobs that teenagers no longer seek. Dan Barber, who owns Blue Hill restaurants in Greenwich Village and in Westchester County, said that he had never had an American-born teenager walk into his Manhattan restaurant looking for a job washing dishes. And while some seek jobs in the front of the house -- waiting on tables and serving as hosts -- they are often competing with highly skilled adults who have worked in restaurants for years.
 ''In Westchester during the summer we try and pick young guys and ladies who are really motivated and smart to become back waiters and food runners,'' Mr. Barber said. ''The labor pool in New York is much greater than in Westchester in terms of experience. We don't have luxury there'' of turning people away.
 Other employers shy away from giving teenagers a chance, because they, too, have their pick of workers. ''We want experienced sales people,'' said Harut Saganda, the manager of Bati, a shoe store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, ''so we don't really bother with teenagers. Even though 50 percent of our clientele are teenagers.''
 Further, strict labor regulations make teenagers an unattractive labor pool. ''The Labor Department says they can't work with machines, no knives, no garbage press,'' said Steven Jenkins, a partner in Fairway Markets. ''I've got a lot of dangerous stuff here. If you're going to hire a teenager, you have to make sure his or her responsibilities don't bring them anywhere near that stuff. We do it because it is in the spirit of the community.''
 Mr. Jenkins said that most teenagers who worked for Fairway labored in the cafe or in the corporate office, rather than on the store floor.
 The idea of teenagers' working just for the sake of working -- when income is not the motivation -- has clearly fallen out of favor among many parents who want their children to concentrate on their studies. 
 ''My father did everything when he was a teenager,'' said Irene Kontonicolaou, 16, who lives in the Bronx. ''He worked in a grocery store and did work for the building. But I don't have time. I have school, I have dance and I have a life. My parents don't want me to work. They think I will be distracted.''
 Daria Foner, who is 17 and attends the Professional Children's School, said the idea of a part-time job had never entered her mind. ''I guess it is because I don't have enough time,'' she said.
 And that saddens some employers. Alfonso Caldero, the manager of Xando, a coffee shop on the Upper West Side, said he liked his three teenage workers. ''They usually bring less drama,'' he said. Brian Hager, the manager of Lush, a beauty products store on Broadway where most workers are in their early 20's, said he longed to see more teenage applicants.
 ''I think they are just as good workers, and I wish more would apply,'' he said. ''We are about being fresh and young and lively -- and they have a different energy level.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Junior Michel, 19, working in a cafe at Fairway Markets. Most teenagers at Fairway work in the cafe or in the corporate office, rather than on the store floor. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
Jonathan Espaillat, 17, is looking for work after many unsuccessful tries. He says that young men have a harder time than women in today's service economy. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
Daria Foner, 17, says applying for a part-time job has never really entered her mind. ''I guess it is because I don't have enough time,'' she said. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)
 Fairway says that despite labor regulations that work against teenagers, it hires them because of its community spirit. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)Chart: ''Young Workers''A smaller proportion of teenagers had jobs in 2004 than 15 years earlier, and the percentage with jobs was much lower in New York City than in the rest of the nation.Graph tracks percentage of 16-to 19-year-olds that are working in New York City compared to the rest of the nation from 1989-2004.(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); WOMEN (74%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MEN (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



576 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Buckle Up for the Dollar's Ride

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
IS the writing on the wall for the dollar? Researchers at one big fund manager say it is, but the markets haven't read along just yet. 
 Since the start of March, Bridgewater Associates, a manager of more than $100 billion of institutional and hedge fund money in Westport, Conn., has been issuing warnings in its daily reports. One on March 11, titled ''The Breakdown of the Dollar System,'' said, ''As we often say, we've seen this movie many times and we know the ending.''
 There is indeed a volatile blend of risks surrounding the dollar. President Bush's new budget proposal would substantially expand the government's debt burden in the next decade, potentially raising doubts about the desirability of its i.o.u.'s. Some Asian central banks have declared that they will diversify their reserves away from dollar-denominated assets. If China decouples the yuan from the dollar, it will not need as many dollar-denominated assets to keep its currency from gaining value, nor will its competitors for export markets. In recent times, long-term interest rates have stayed stubbornly low, making it difficult for American companies to attract new investment from abroad. 
 These ingredients may just be waiting for the right catalyst. If enough people start thinking like those at Bridgewater Associates, the dollar will lose value rapidly. There's no point trading dollars today, after all, if everyone thinks that they will be worth less in the near future. Fundamental economic factors need not worsen any further; in currency crises, perception very quickly becomes reality.
 Bridgewater says it believes that the dollar is already beyond the point of no return. To keep the currency at its current value, private investors will have to buy more American securities as central banks desert them, said Robert P. Prince, the firm's co-chief investment officer. Before private investors will act, they need to see a higher return from American assets, relative to assets carrying similar risks abroad.
 Mr. Prince said that those higher returns had begun to arrive through lower prices for assets. If an asset comes with a fixed interest payment, say 4 percent, buying it at a lower price will offer a relatively higher return. But these higher returns could cause problems for the economy. Borrowers in the competitive market for credit will have to offer higher returns, too, and interest rates may rise. ''The Fed doesn't want that, because too much of a rise in interest rates will choke off the economy,'' Mr. Prince said.
 The alternative is for the assets' prices to remain the same while the dollar loses value. That way, foreigners will be able to buy assets at a discount, yielding a higher return, but without putting too much upward pressure on American interest rates. (The implicit assumption here is that the assets' future returns will not be harmed too much by today's lower dollar.)
 So, instead of allowing the economy to adjust purely through higher interest rates, perhaps causing another recession, Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve will have the luxury of allowing the dollar to do some of the heavy lifting. The numbers? Bridgewater predicts a further decline in the dollar of 30 percent, especially against Asian currencies, and a rise in American long-term rates of one-half to one full percentage point.
 Not everyone thinks that events will play out this way. ''It's really too extreme to be talking about potential crises in the dollar,'' said Martin D.D. Evans, a professor of economics at Georgetown University in Washington. ''Yes, we have seen a large movement in the dollar versus the euro in particular, but to say we're sort of on the edge of a precipice isn't really merited by the facts. The premise here, thinking that it's impossible for the dollar to come back, I also don't buy.''
 Professor Evans said the Fed's hand would be forced by the rising tide of inflation. ''The Federal Reserve cares about inflation,'' he said, ''and they're going to be very reluctant if they start seeing the inflationary effects of the decline in the dollar to just sit by and say, 'But we need low interest rates to support exports.''' He predicted that the Fed would put the clamps on credit, leading to interest rates high enough to attract foreign capital: ''We are going to see quite a sharp tightening in the United States, perhaps tighter than people are expecting.''
 Drastic predictions for the government's fiscal position may not come true, either, even though the White House's budget would raise the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio in 2015 to 37 percent, versus 29 percent under current law. ''I don't think it's big enough to warrant the attention it's gotten,'' Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said of the nation's fiscal erosion. ''A lot of the dollar's future will in fact be driven by the other determinants.''
 That does not mean the budget can be ignored. Mr. Holtz-Eakin said he expected that the government would eventually have to steer clear of a dip into the red. ''It is unavoidable that we will rein in our spending,'' he said, ''because we are unlikely to be able to tax enough to cover it.'' 
 Though action by the Fed and a clampdown on federal spending could spare the dollar's blushes, they would both be bad news for the economy. A cutback in federal spending will, at least in the short term, create slack in labor and product markets. And one of the surest forecasters of recession is a tightening of short-term credit by the Fed.
 Congress and the White House have shown no sign that they are serious about controlling spending, but the Fed's policy-making committee may already be proving Professor Evans right. After the committee opted to raise short-term rates another quarter of a percentage point last week, its statement acknowledged that ''pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months'' and asserted its willingness to act forcefully if necessary.
 Whichever way you cut it, we're in for a bumpy ride. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks trade-weighted dollar index (monthly) from 2000-2004.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



577 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; RELIGION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Secure, But Outside The Convent

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHARFENBERG

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON 

 BODY:
THE stern looks in the classroom, delicate outreach to needy parishioners and far-flung missions to Africa are behind them.
 Now the aging nuns of the Order of St. Ursula and the Sisters of the Congregation de Notre Dame, who have taken over the second floor of the Andrus on Hudson retirement home here over the last 12 months, are engaged in more contemplative pursuits: attending Mass daily , considering the afterlife and, during happy hour on Mondays and Fridays, sipping sodas and whiskey sours.
 ''It certainly is a life of leisure,'' said Sister Anne Scappini, 82, of the Notre Dame order, who prefers a Coca-Cola or ginger ale to the more adventurous drinks of her friends. ''We want for nothing. We're blessed and we're well cared for, and for this we're grateful.'' 
 Retirement has, indeed, turned out rather well for the 41 nuns at Andrus on Hudson's 26-acre riverside campus, which affords views of the Tappan Zee Bridge to the north and Empire State Building to the south.
 But moving to this private institution, with its 165 residents of both sexes and various faiths, was something of a surprise for women who expected to live out their final years behind convent walls, in the care of younger nuns -- a sort of Social Security for the religious. 
 For generations, such had been the tradition. Nowadays it is Medicaid that is more relevant. The supply of younger nuns has dwindled; there are no longer so many dedicating a portion of their teachers' or nurses' salaries to the care of their elders. 
 So orders like the Ursulines, whose eastern United States headquarters is in the Bronx, and Sisters of the Congregation de Notre Dame, whose American headquarters is in Ridgefield, Conn., are placing older members in private nursing homes like Andrus, and tapping Medicaid to help pay for the care.
 The financial crisis that spurred this shift went largely unnoticed until 1986, when The Wall Street Journal reported on retiring sisters clipping coupons and applying for welfare. The newspaper also highlighted an Arthur Andersen & Company study that revealed a nearly $2 billion gap between the retirement funds available for nuns and what they would need to cover their financial and medical needs.
 As of last year, the retirement shortfall for brothers and sisters combined had swelled to $5.6 billion, according to the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops' National Religious Retirement Office in Washington. And the drop in new recruits had shown no signs of abating: between 1964 and 2004, according to the Official Catholic Directory, the number of brothers and sisters in the United States plummeted, to 77,000 from 192,000. More than half of those remaining are over 70.
 As the population ages, the orders have taken increasingly sophisticated approaches to caring for their aging brothers and sisters. Some have sold off property to finance retirement accounts or turned small, in-house infirmaries into licensed care centers. 
 Some sisters at the Andrus home say the transition has been difficult. They have worried about losing a sustaining sense of community, and find it painful to acknowledge that a centuries-old way of life is in decline.
 Yet most of the nuns, like Sister Eugenia Garvey, 81, of the Ursuline order have adapted to their new surroundings. A Long Island native who worked as an English teacher for years, she said she was wary when she arrived at Andrus in January. ''It was a rainy, cold day,'' she said. ''It wasn't cheerful.''
 But over time, Sister Eugenia said, she grew to like the place, taking particular pleasure in the opportunity to provide counsel to lay residents. ''Time works on you,'' she said, seated in an office at Andrus with two sisters at her side. ''You grow to appreciate what you have.''
 Sister Gregory Horgan, 87, also of the Ursuline order, who spent 37 years in South Africa and Botswana teaching children and training other instructors, has had a more difficult time. When she was working, Sister Gregory said, she dreamed of time to pray and deepen her spiritual life. But filling that time has been harder than she expected. ''It's not easy to be retired after having lived a very full life,'' she said.
 The Sisters of the Congregation de Notre Dame, who arrived at Andrus on Hudson nine months before the Ursulines, seem a little better settled into the imposing home, which was built in 1953 by the family of the Yonkers industrialist John E. Andrus.
 The sisters have set up a makeshift chapel in one small green room. And down the hall, a large-screen television sits in one corner of their community room and two new computers in another. There's no Internet access yet, but a digital version of solitaire is quite popular.
 The talk, in that space, is mostly of family and friends and items in the newspaper delivered every day. But with a little prodding, they will acknowledge that they think more about their mortality these days. 
 ''We have so many beautiful things here,'' said Sister Dolores Hanlon, 78, as she sat with friends on a recent afternoon, knitting. ''But there will be so much more when God calls us.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on March 27 with an article about nuns who live in private retirement homes referred incorrectly to Alice Hollreiser, shown at a home in Hastings-on-Hudson. She is not a nun.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Andrus on Hudson home, residents watch a show performed by students of the Ursuline School of New Rochelle. Sister Alice Hollreiser, left, with Sister Ursula Baumann. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); MEDICAID (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); NURSING HOMES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (63%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (63%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



578 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: The Downtown as Creative Canvas

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

DATELINE: PEEKSKILL 

 BODY:
JON YANOFSKY came to Peekskill in June 2003, to take the helm of the Paramount Center for the Arts. Earlier this month, he bought a home in the city, the first house he has ever owned. 
 Ryan Brown started working as the registrar of the new Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art in the city in December, managing its collection. By the end of the month, he hopes renovations on his new apartment will be complete so he and his girlfriend can move up from Brooklyn.
 Mr. Yanofsky and Mr. Brown are just two examples of the growing number of newcomers in jobs in arts-related fields who have settled in Peekskill, benefiting indirectly from changes in the city's zoning laws. The zoning changes have brought more artists and more people interested in the arts to this city of about 24,000. 
 Peekskill first changed its zoning laws to entice artists to make use of the long-abandoned space above downtown stores 15 years ago. Faced with a loss of downtown business to newer commercial strips, city officials feared that Peekskill was becoming a ghost town. They decided that they had to bring people back to their sidewalks and keep the tax base from crumbling.
 By converting obsolete commercial space into an artists' residential district, the new traffic would be continuous rather than limited to weekday shopping hours, said Ralph DiBart, an urban planner and an expert on downtown reuse who was brought in by Fran Gibbs, the mayor of Peekskill at the time, to help revitalize the area. 
 ''Artists are very enterprising,'' he said. They would live and work in town, support businesses struggling for customers and start new endeavors of their own, he said.
 The zoning amendments created a new purpose for the upstairs storage rooms of storefronts by allowing them to be used as living space, as long as a portion of each apartment was set aside for working studios. Mr. DiBart gave personal tours to prospective residents and persuaded building owners to rehabilitate their upper floors and helped them find tenants.
 ''These landlords who were suffering with unoccupied buildings were not asked to invest on a speculative basis,'' Ms. Gibbs said. ''There was a tenant for whom they were renovating space, and that makes a huge difference.'' 
 In the last two years, the pace of the resident art community's growth has surged. 
 The Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, a 12,500-square-foot museum, opened last June in a former lumberyard on Main Street after four years of preparation. Since Mr. Yanofsky took over the 75-year-old Paramount Arts Center, the theater has invested $870,000 on its auditorium to repaint it, repair the plaster and add a rebuilt stage, a new curtain, refurbished seats, new lighting, new carpeting and a new concession stand. 
 The theater was scheduled for demolition until it was rescued in the early 1980's by George Pataki, who was then mayor. Its renovation and the opening of the Hudson Valley Contemporary Arts Center represent the most recent phase of Peekskill's development: the arrival of art institutions and affiliated professionals. 
 Bernard Molloy, president of the local Chamber of Commerce, said of the burgeoning arts community: ''These are professionals who make their living in the business of art. These are business people who are artists, so that's a sea change.'' 
 Koki Doktori, a painter, has lived and worked in SoHo in Manhattan since 1969. Edward Burke, an art gallery owner, brought Mr. Doktori to Peekskill in September to see if he might be interested in showing his work at Mr. Burke's 25N Gallery. Mr. Doktori was so impressed with the neighborhood that he spent almost $400,000 to buy the building across the street. He intends to gradually relocate both his home and his studio to the Peekskill building, where he hopes to open a cooperative gallery on the ground floor.
 It was important, he added, that he buy a space in Peekskill rather than testing the waters by renting. ''I almost feel like it's whether you live with your girlfriend or marry her,'' he said. ''I got married. That's it, I'll work it out.''
 The expansion of the city's arts community has come in distinct stages. The first was initiated by Ms. Gibbs with the help of Mr. DiBart. 
 The departure of Steinbach's department store, the city's last remaining anchor retailer, had left ''a pall,'' Ms. Gibbs said. Many of the downtown retailers had upstairs storage spaces that had been crumbling for decades from lack of attention. At its outset, the redevelopment plan sought to make those spaces economically viable again. By modifying the zoning code to allow artists both to live and work above the stores, landlords have an incentive to repair the spaces and put them on the market, she said. 
 Derek Reist, a painter who specializes in New York City landscapes, relocated to downtown Peekskill from Manhattan more than five years ago. He found his loft on his first visit to the city.
 ''Quite apart from the fact that you're surrounded by artists, it's a nice place,'' said Mr. Reist, 59. ''It's quiet, the spaces are good, they're reasonable and it's got great light.'' 
 The quality of the light, he said, shows that it is not by happenstance alone that the area has a history as fertile ground for masterworks. ''The Hudson River School guys, they were on to something,'' he said. Although he still travels to New York City at least every weekend to find new images to paint, Peekskill provides an atmosphere for his ideas to gestate, Mr. Reist said.
 ''I kind of like the way Peekskill is now,'' he said. ''I don't want it to become a boomtown.'' 
 All of the second-floor studio spaces have been leased, said Mark Cavanna, president of the Peekskill Business Improvement District. Instead of just inhabiting formerly derelict areas in the retail district, the arts community is flowing outward into other neighborhoods. 
 Once the abandoned spaces were filled, the growth of the Peekskill arts community entered its second stage. Three years ago, city, state and county finished building 30 units of subsidized housing available only to artists or people in arts-related high-tech professions. The residents are required to continue their artistic endeavors as long as they live in the building, and can't sell the lofts for fair-market value for decades. 
 All the units in the building have been sold, and a similar project is now planned for Main Street using $1.2 million remaining from the state funds, said Mayor John G. Testa. The new plan will be coordinated by a private company, Community Preservation Corporation. It involves the rehabilitation of two buildings as well as construction on empty lots. Unlike the 30 units in the first project, the 18 new lofts will be condominiums rather than co-ops, and buildings will have retail space on the street level. Construction is expected to start this spring, Mr. Molloy said.
 Among the artists living in the art lofts, Linda Jean Fisher is unusual because her family has deep roots in Peekskill. She also is the new president of the Peekskill Arts Council, which has a membership roster of 100 local artists. Her grandfather, Vincent Fisher, was excused from military service during World War II because he maintained all of the city's ambulances, police cars and fire trucks, she said. As a young woman, her mother, Joyce Moretti Fisher, was a ''popcorn girl'' at the Paramount. 
 In 1991, after the zoning laws were modified, Ms. Fisher became one of the original downtown studio tenants. When the lofts became available, she was one of the first buyers. 
 Andreas Engel, 36, moved into a loft with his wife, Stephanie, and their newborn son, Aidan, two years ago, and they now have a 4-month-old daughter, Remi. In Chelsea the family lived in 400 square feet, Mr. Engel said. His studio was blocks away. Now they share a combined studio and living space of about 2,000 square feet. A professional Web designer, he has space to work on his paintings and sculptures, while Ms. Engel runs her knitting business, Nooknits.
 Pat Braja, a professional arts manager who moved to Peekskill in June and has since become executive director of the artists' council, said, ''Right now we're small, we don't have a lot of money,'' adding, ''Our biggest thing is the thing that costs the least, and that's communication -- communicating with the artists, communicating with the community, communicating with the other cultural organizations.'' Ms. Braja joined the Paramount's board of directors on March 8.
 The city's annual open-studio days, to be held this year on May 21 and 22, give all the local artists and the six commercial gallery owners a chance to work together on a single project. Mr. Engel has contributed a new logo to be used to advertise the event. 
 It is not unusual for Peekskill's gallery owners to coordinate their show openings for maximum effect, or to advertise jointly, said Wendie Garber, who runs the Flat Iron Gallery. In June the Business Improvement District will inaugurate the city's ''First Fridays'' program, in which local businesses are encouraged to stay open late and provide special events the first Friday of every month. The Business Improvement District is also working to put banners and an informational kiosk downtown, Mr. Cavanna said.
 The Paramount, the museum and the leadership of the arts council have provided ''a massive injection, a shot in the arm,'' to the evolution of the community, said Mr. Yanofsky, the theater's director. The theater supplies exhibition space on open-studio days for artists whose workspace isn't centrally located.
 ''We all have a very collaborative, forward-thinking approach to putting our energy and efforts toward this momentum that's been building over the last 15 years,'' he said. ''We couldn't be accomplishing what we're doing without that precedent, and that fertile ground already being laid. So what we're able to do is hopefully take it to the next level.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Jean Fisher, president of the Peekskill Arts Council, surrounded by her work in her loft. Andreas Engel and a sculpture in his combined studio and living space, where he and his family have about 2,000 square feet. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); MAYORS (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); RETAILERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



579 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Word for Word/Report Card; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: China Gives America a D

BYLINE: By PETER EDIDIN

 BODY:
SINCE 1977, the United States State Department has issued an annual global report card called the Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. 
 The document has long been a thorn in the side of authoritarian governments, including China's, which responds with a nettled review of its own, called ''The Human Rights Record of the United States,'' the 2004 version of which was recently released. (It is available in English at: english.people.com.cn/200503/03/eng20050303--175406.html.) 
 China's assessment, unlike the sober State Department tome, is a frank indictment and draws a picture of America that approaches caricature. But that doesn't mean it won't buttress the negative image of the United States held by its critics around the world. 
 Excerpts follow, with the document's grammatical and other errors intact. PETER EDIDIN

LIFE, LIBERTY AND SECURITY OF PERSON
 American society is characterized with rampant violent crimes, severe infringement of people's rights by law enforcement departments and lack of guarantee for people's rights to life, liberty and security of person.
 The United States has the biggest number of gun owners, and gun violence has affected lots of innocent lives. About 31,000 Americans are killed and 75,000 wounded by firearms each year, which means more than 80 people are shot dead each day. 
 The United States characterizes itself as ''a paradise for free people,'' but the ratio of its citizens deprived of freedom has remained among the highest. 
 According to statistics from the Department of Justice, the number of inmates in the United States jumped from 320,000 in 1980 to two million in 2000, a hike by six times. The number of convicted offenders may total more than six million if parolees and probationers are also counted. 

POLITICAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOM
 The United States claims to be ''a paragon of democracy,'' but American democracy is manipulated by the rich and malpractices are common. Elections in the United States are in fact a contest of money. The presidential and Congressional elections last year cost nearly $4 billion. 
 Campaign advertisement and political debates were full of distorted facts, false information and lies.

ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS
 Poverty, hunger and homelessness have haunted the world richest country.
 Upper middle- and upper-class families that constitute the top 10 percent of the income distribution are prospering while many among the remaining 90 percent struggle to maintain their standard of living. According to the statistics released by the United States Census Bureau in 2004, the number of Americans in poverty has been climbing for three years. It rose by 1.3 million year on year in 2003 to 35.9 million.

RACIAL DISCRIMINATION
 Racial discrimination has been deeply rooted in the United States, permeating into every aspects of society. The colored people are generally poor, with living condition much worse than the white. The death rate of illness, accident and murder among the black people is twice that of the white. The rate of being victim of murders for the black people is five times that of the white. The rate of being affected by AIDS for the black people is ten times that of the whites while the rate of being diagnosed by diabetes for the black people is twice that of the whites. 
 The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission of the United States received 29,000 complaints in 2003 of racial bias in the workplace 
 The Declaration of Independence said all men are created equal, so the gap between black and white people is simply an insult to the founding essence of the United States.
 After the Sept. 11 incident, the United States openly restricts the rights of citizens under the cloak of homeland security, and uses diverse means including wire tapping of phone conversations and secret investigations, checks on all secret files, and monitoring transfers of fund and cash flows to supervise activities of its citizens, in which, people of ethnic minority groups, foreigners and immigrants become main victims.

THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
 The situation of American women and children was disturbing. The rates of women and children physically or sexually victimized were high. According to F.B.I. Crime Statistics, in 2003 the United States witnessed 93,233 cases of raping. The statistics also showed that every two minutes one woman was sexually assaulted and every six minutes one woman was raped. 
 Children were victims of sex crimes. Every year about 400,000 children in the U.S. were forced to engage in prostitution or other sexual dealings on the streets. 
 In recent years scandals about clergymen molesting children kept breaking out.
 It is believed that from 1950 to 2002 more than 10,600 boys and girls were sexually abused by nearly 4,400 clergymen.

THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF FOREIGN NATIONALS
 In 2004, United States Army service people were reported to have abused and insulted Iraqi prisoners of war, which stunned the whole world. The United States forces were blamed for their fierce and dirty treatments for these Iraqi P.O.W.'s. They made the P.O.W.'s naked by force, masking their heads with underwear (even women's underwear), locking up their necks with a belt, towing them over the ground, letting military dogs bite them, beating them with a whip, shocking them with electric batons, needling them sometimes and putting chemical fluids containing phosphorus on their wounds. 
 The United States frequently commits wanton slaughters during external invasions and military attacks. Spain's Uprising newspaper on May 12, 2004, published a list of human rights infringement incidents committed by the United States troops, quoting two bloodthirsty sayings of two American generals, ''The only good Indians I ever saw were dead'' by Gen. Philip Sheridan, and ''we should bomb Vietnam back to the Stone Age'' by Air Force Gen. Curtis LeMay. 
 A survey on Iraqi civilian deaths, based on the natural death rate before the war, estimates that the United States-led invasion might have led to 100,000 more deaths in the country, with most victims being women and children. In addition, the United States troops often plunder Iraqi households when tracking down anti-United States militants since the invasion. The American forces has so far committed at least thousands of robberies and 90 percent of the Iraqis that have been rummaged are innocent.
 Despite tons of problems in its own human rights, the United States continues to stick to its belligerent stance, wantonly trample on the sovereignty of other countries and constantly stage tragedies of human rights infringement in the world.
 Instead of indulging itself in publishing the ''human rights country report'' to censure other countries unreasonably, the United States should reflect on its erroneous behavior on human rights and take its own human rights problems seriously.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sizing up a weapon. China says that America's high level of gun ownership is linked to violence. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%); PAROLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INDICTMENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); CENSUS (73%); PRISONS (73%); FIREARMS (71%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); FAMILY (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (67%); PROBATION (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%); POLITICAL DEBATES (62%); RACE & RACISM (61%); HOMELESSNESS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



580 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8071 words

HEADLINE: The Soul of the New Exurb 

BYLINE: By Jonathan Mahler. 
Jonathan Mahler, a contributing writer for the magazine, recently wrote about teenagers and antidepressants. His book, ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning,'' will be published next month by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
In the spring of 1996, Lee McFarland quit his high-paying job at Microsoft, sold his house and drove his Jeep Cherokee from Redmond, Wash., to Surprise, Ariz. He had come to build a church. McFarland, who was 36 at the time, knew little about leading churches and less about building them: he wasn't even halfway through the correspondence classes he was taking to become an evangelical pastor. Nevertheless, he'd been hired by a small group of Christians in an adjoining community to do just that. And so a few days after he arrived, he put on a pair of slacks and a polo shirt, said goodbye to his wife, Sandy, and their two kids, who had come to Surprise several weeks ahead of him to get settled in their new house, and set out to find believers.
 For decades, Surprise, which is about 45 minutes northwest of downtown Phoenix, was mostly scrubby cotton, rose and citrus fields, with a small grid of streets where migrant workers lived. In the early 90's, developers discovered the town. By the time McFarland and his family arrived, its population had climbed past 15,000, and more, many more, were on their way. Most of Surprise's new residents were young white families drawn to affordable homes and jobs within commuting distance. Many of them hadn't gone to college but no doubt hoped that their children would. 
 These were the people McFarland was seeking when he started knocking on the doors of one light brown stucco tract home after another. Applying a lesson he learned a month earlier in a church-development seminar in Orange County, Calif., he introduced himself to the locals as the pastor of a new church that he was calling Radiant. From there he expected to begin long, probing conversations about their lives -- what was missing, what their kids liked to do in their free time and so on. But the mothers and fathers who greeted him were barely civil. ''This was,'' as he put it to me not long ago, ''a radically unchurched area.'' No wonder Surprise's three existing churches were struggling.
 After a few days of trekking through identical streets and cul-de-sacs under the hot Arizona sun, McFarland figured he had better try a different approach. He traded in his business-casual attire for a T-shirt and blue jeans, bought a clipboard and posed as the representative of a secular organization. He limited himself to two questions: ''What's your favorite radio station?'' and ''Why do you think people don't go to church?'' The conversations grew longer, and McFarland's mission became clear. People in Surprise listened to rock music. And they didn't go to church because they didn't have any fancy clothes, didn't like being asked for money and didn't see how any of the sermons they had heard in the past related to their lives.
 McFarland pledged to change all that. By the following August, he had hired a direct-mail company to send out fliers to everyone in Surprise -- or at least everyone but the Spanish-speaking farm workers who lived in the town's original square mile -- inviting them to Radiant. ''You think church is boring and judgmental, and that all they want is your money?'' it asked. ''At Radiant you'll hear a rockin' band and a positive, relevant message. Come as you are. We won't beg for your money. Your kids will love it!''
 On a Sunday in early September 1997, 147 people showed up for Radiant's first service, which was about twice what McFarland had expected. Until construction on the church was finished, services were being held in the auditorium of a public elementary school. McFarland wore an untucked Hawaiian shirt, blue jeans and sneakers. The air-conditioning wasn't working; it was 114 degrees outside and 92 degrees inside. As he talked about how to build better relationships with friends, family members and loved ones, McFarland looked out over his wilting congregation and started thinking that his first sermon might very well be his last. But the following week more than 100 people returned, and the church has been growing steadily ever since.
 When attendance for Sunday services at Radiant hit about 350 in 1999, McFarland tried to apply the brakes. No more fliers, billboards or newspaper ads. A few hundred felt like the perfect size -- big enough to be vibrant, but small enough that he still knew everyone's name. But then one night McFarland woke up in tears. ''I felt like God was saying: 'Oh, so that's it, huh? You don't care?' '' McFarland remembers. ''I said to God, 'I will never decide how big this church should be.' ''
 And so a year later, when Radiant moved into what would be its first permanent quarters, weekend attendance was approaching 800. Two years later it hit 2,000, the generally agreed-upon threshold for megachurch status, and McFarland started planning to build a new worship center. Weekend attendance is now about 5,000. To accommodate them all, McFarland leads several services, beginning on Saturday afternoon and continuing through Sunday morning. For Easter, the busiest day of the year, Radiant is expecting 15,000.
 All of this has come as a big surprise to McFarland.''When we started Radiant, I thought it would be cool if we got to 200,'' he said when I first met him in January. McFarland, a big guy, a little soft around the middle, was wearing a blue T-shirt and black Tommy Hilfiger jeans, and we were sitting in his office, where a wooden baseball bat autographed by Garth Brooks -- ''Pastor Lee, may God guide you, pal'' -- is displayed more prominently than the only thing that passes as religious iconography: a soft-focus painting of a contented-looking bearded man in a white robe. ''I tease people and I go, 'This is my rookie season, this is my first church,' '' McFarland told me, ''and they go: 'Shut up, dude, you're sickening. You're pastor of a church that has grown like a weed.' ''
One of the more striking facts to emerge from the 2004 presidential election was that 97 of America's 100 fastest-growing counties voted Republican. Most of these counties are made up of heretofore unknown towns too far from major metropolitan areas to be considered suburbs, but too bustling to be considered rural, places like Lebanon, Ohio; Fridley, Minn.; Crabapple, Ga.; and Surprise, Ariz. America has a new frontier: the exurbs. In a matter of years, sleepy counties stretching across 30 states have been transformed into dense communities of subdivisions filled with middle-class families likely to move again and again, settling in yet another exurb but putting down no real roots. These exurban cities tend not to have immediately recognizable town squares, but many have some kind of big, new structure where newcomers go to discuss their lives and problems and hopes: the megachurch.
 This is not the megachurch of the 1980's, where baby boomers turned up once a week to passively take in a 45-minute service -- ''religion as accessory,'' as Tom Beaudoin, an assistant professor of religion at Santa Clara University, has described the phenomenon. In a sense, the new breed of megachurches has more in common with the frontier churches of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which served as gathering places for pioneers who had gone West in search of opportunity. In sprawling, decentralized exurbs like Surprise, where housing developments rarely include porches, parks, stoops or any of the other features that have historically brought neighbors together, megachurches provide a locus for community. In many places, they operate almost like surrogate governments, offering residents day care, athletic facilities, counseling, even schools. Taking the comparison one step further, there's even a tax, albeit a voluntary one: members are encouraged to tithe, or donate 10 percent of their income to the church. At Radiant, McFarland says, about one-quarter of the members do.
 It's hard to imagine a more effective method of religious outreach, which is, after all, the goal of evangelical churches like Radiant. As McFarland told me: ''I'm just trying to get people in the door.'' To that end, Radiant has designed its new 55,000-square-foot church to look more like an overgrown ski lodge than a place of worship. ''For people who haven't been to church, or went once and got burned, the anxiety level is really high,'' McFarland says. '' 'Is it going to be freaky? Is it going to be like what I see on Christian TV?' So we've tried to bring down those visual cues that scare people off.''
 In fact, everything about Radiant has been designed to lure people away from other potential weekend destinations. The foyer includes five 50-inch plasma-screen televisions, a bookstore and a cafe with a Starbucks-trained staff making espresso drinks. (For those who are in a rush, there's a drive-through latte stand outside the main building.) Krispy Kreme doughnuts are served at every service. (Radiant's annual Krispy Kreme budget is $16,000). For kids there are Xboxes (10 for fifth and sixth graders alone). ''That's what they're into,'' McFarland says. ''You can either fight it or say they're a tool for God.'' The dress code is lax: most worshipers wear jeans, sweats or shorts, depending on the season. (''At my old church, we thought we were casual because we wore mock turtlenecks under our blazers,'' Radiant's youth pastor told me.) Even the baptism pool is seductive: Radiant keeps the water at 101 degrees. ''We've had people say, 'No, leave me under,' '' McFarland says. ''It's like taking a dip in a spa.'' 
 When the church was under construction, people would occasionally ask McFarland if it was going to have stained glass or a steeple. ''No!'' he'd answer. ''We want the church to look like a mall. We want you to come in here and say, 'Dude, where's the cinema?' ''
 The spiritual sell is also a soft one. There are no crosses, no images of Jesus or any other form of religious iconography. Bibles are optional (all biblical quotations are flashed on huge video screens above the stage). Almost half of each service is given over to live Christian rock with simple, repetitive lyrics in which Jesus is treated like a high-school crush: ''Jesus, you are my best friend, and you will always be. Nothing will ever change that.'' Committing your life to Christ is as easy as checking a box on the communication cards that can be found on the back of every chair. (Last year, 1,055 people did so.)
 McFarland's messages are light on liturgy and heavy on what he calls ''successful principles for living'' -- how to discipline your children, how to reach your professional goals, how to invest your money, how to reduce your debt, even how to shake a porn addiction. ''If Oprah and Dr. Phil are doing it, why shouldn't we?'' he says. ''We should be better at it because we have the power of God to offer.''
 In his recent book ''The Transformation of American Religion: How We Actually Live Our Faith,'' Alan Wolfe, a professor of political science at Boston College, writes that ''American faith has met American culture -- and American culture has triumphed.'' Radiant seems the embodiment of this assertion. And yet not exactly. McFarland's long-term plan for his congregants involves much more than playing video games and eating doughnuts. He says that his hope -- his expectation, really -- is that casual worshipers will gradually immerse themselves in Radiant's many Christ-based programs, from financial planning to parenthood and education, until they have eventually incorporated Christian values into every aspect of their lives.
 This is the vision of the new megachurch, and it's far more expansive than those of yesterday's megachurches and today's smaller churches. ''The larger church expects a much higher level of commitment,'' says Dave Travis, who runs Leadership Network, a strategic consulting firm for megachurches. ''The larger church expects you to be a more passionate follower of Christ, not just in the church, but in your community, your workplace and your home.''
 As an evangelical strategy, it seems to be working. Weekly attendance at most American churches has either plateaued or is declining. But megachurches continue to expand -- and multiply. (According to John Vaughan, who runs the Megachurch Research Center in Bolivar, Mo., there were 10 non-Catholic megachurches in America in 1970. Today there are 282.) McFarland is clearly doing something right. There are now 27 other churches in Surprise, but none of them are growing at anything approaching the pace of Radiant. One day in Surprise, I met a pastor who moved there four years ago with his wife and children from Kalamazoo, Mich., to plant a church. After drawing fewer than 10 people for about a year, he folded up shop. When I ran into him he was auditioning for a part-time job with Radiant's band.
 lee mcfarland first heard the call to ministry one Sunday morning in 1995 at his church outside Seattle. As he tells the story, the pastor was sermonizing about the importance of volunteering free time to the church. ''And then he said: 'But God sometimes takes people and taps them on the shoulder and says, ''I want you to do this as a vocation.'' Sometimes this happens in high school, so you go into a Bible college. But sometimes God waits until your career is developed in another area and then calls you into the ministry as a second-career pastor.' And then he said something really strange: 'Tonight, I think there's someone here that God is calling to do that.' As soon as he said that, I knew. I just felt like God was going, 'It's you, it's you.' '' Within a matter of weeks, McFarland had enrolled in correspondence classes to become a pastor and started arriving at his office at 5 every morning to study for an hour or so before his day at Microsoft began.
 McFarland had lived outside Phoenix while working for Honeywell in the early 1990's. When he came back to Arizona on a business trip shortly after deciding to join the ministry, he had lunch with his former pastor. McFarland told him he was planning a career change, and the pastor asked him for a resume, in case he heard of any openings.
 A few months later, McFarland received a call from a group of Christian seniors who lived in Sun City, a retirement community that abuts Surprise. They could see that Surprise was about to take off and had tried luring some of the newcomers to their church, a more traditional place with formal attire, hymns and wooden pews, but they hadn't had much luck. It was clear that if these young families, many of whom had either fallen away from religion or had never attended church regularly, were going to be saved, it would require a very different kind of church led by a pastor who could relate to them. After raising $450,000 to buy a 15-acre plot in Surprise, the retirees received McFarland's name from his former pastor and offered him the job, which paid $26,000 a year. ''I was like: Surprise? I've been to Surprise,'' McFarland recalled during one of our conversations. ''It's a spot on the road that you pass on your way to get gas. It was a miracle that I was willing to come, and it was a miracle that they were willing to hire me.''
 Surprise was still little more than a spot on the road, but waves of construction were rippling out from Phoenix. Having started the second half of the 20th century as the nation's 99th largest city, Phoenix had become the sixth largest and was busting out of its own skin. Once most of the land in the nearer suburbs -- Glendale, Mesa, Peoria -- had been built out, developers started moving deeper and deeper into the exurbs, and Surprise was soon expanding in every direction. The process worked something like this: A developer would buy land from a farmer and then ask Surprise to annex it. This guaranteed the developer municipal amenities like police and fire protection; for its part, with each annexation Surprise became more populous.
 The seemingly endless supply of desert land kept housing costs low, and young families were soon pouring in. During the 1990's, the population of Surprise doubled to 30,000. Commercial development was still ramping up. In 2000, Applebee's was the only sit-down chain restaurant in town, and the wait for a table on a weekend night could be as long as an hour and a half.
 Then the real boom began. The population of Surprise is now more than 80,000 and is expected to be close to 100,000 by the end of the year. And the city anticipates that there are still more than three decades of furious growth to come. Surprise won't be fully built out until 2040, at which point its population is expected to reach 650,000. There will no doubt be plenty of turnover along the way. According to Robert Lang, an urban expert who studies exurbs at the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech,''If you live in a new community, you will also change communities.'' 
Ask people at Radiant what first brought them to the church, and you will almost never hear a mention of God. It might have been a billboard: ''Isn't It Time You Laughed Again?'' Or the twice-a-week aerobics class (with free child care) called Firm Believers. Or one of their children might have come with a friend to play video games.
 For Joe and Jodi Garcia, who moved to Surprise nearly two years ago from Orange County, Calif., it was a flier advertising a sermon series about marriage, ''Sex, Lies and Second Looks.'' Unlike many Radiant worshipers, Joe and Jodi were not new to evangelical Christianity. In 1995, right after Joe had finally defeated a long-running addiction to alcohol and cocaine, both he and his wife (who have been married for 15 years) were saved at the Harvest Crusade, a Christian revival that took place over several nights at Anaheim Stadium. For a while, they listened to Christian radio and attended a nearby megachurch. But by the time they came to Surprise, they'd drifted away from religion. They were also having some problems in their marriage.
 That's when the flier from Radiant arrived, promising to make their lives better. ''Talking about sex in church -- are you kidding?'' it began. ''Nope.'' They went to Radiant and have been going back ever since. McFarland's sermons reminded Joe that he needed to cut out potential sources of temptation, like many Hollywood movies. ''If you don't prune, you start absorbing all of that stuff, and then take it into your marriage,'' Joe, a slight, intense-looking man with narrow eyes and a goatee, told me one night at Radiant. ''You start saying things like, 'Hey, my wife doesn't dress like that.' '' 
 The Garcias came to Surprise with their two children because they were barely managing to make it in Orange County. They had a lot of debt, and had outgrown their modest home and couldn't begin to afford anything bigger in the area. Some friends told them about Surprise, and they decided to take a look. Phoenix's economy was expanding, so Joe, a network engineer, would probably be able to find work. In July 2003, they sold their Orange County house and bought a bigger one in Surprise. Within a few months, Joe had been hired by a health-care company in Phoenix. (He now works as a computer technician at Radiant.)
 Soon after the Garcias started attending Radiant, Joe, who was having trouble finding an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting in Surprise he liked, volunteered to help the church start a branch of Celebrate Recovery, a popular Christ-based program for recovering addicts. Praised by President Bush, Celebrate Recovery was founded by a recovering alcoholic frustrated that he didn't feel comfortable talking about Jesus in A.A. meetings. A.A. has 12 steps; Celebrate Recovery has eight principles, based on Jesus' sermon on the mount. ''A.A. is the higher power of your own understanding, which can be a doorknob,'' says Joe. ''Here our higher power is our lord savior Jesus Christ. He's the one who gives us the strength we need in recovery.''
 Joe now leads Celebrate Recovery at Radiant, which is held on Friday nights at the church. The evening begins with a free dinner, after which about 100 people -- alcoholics, drug addicts, co-dependents -- filter into the worship center behind ushers in maroon shirts with ''Follow Me to Recovery'' printed on the back. The Radiant house band plays loud, uplifting Christian rock, and nearly everyone sings along: ''I'm trading my sorrows, I'm trading my shame, for the joy of the Lord.'' Once the offering has been collected, Joe gives a short sermon and then the attendees split up into small groups for their individual recovery meetings before reconvening for dessert at the Soul Cafe.
 Celebrate Recovery is what church-growth experts refer to as a side door. Before the rise of the megachurch, evangelism was done primarily through the front door -- the Sunday-morning service. Today, large evangelical churches try to offer the yet-to-be-saved as many different entry points as they can. Almost invariably, these side doors lead people into more intimate gatherings, which are intended to keep megachurches from feeling too large and impersonal.
 The arrival of the small group represents the maturation of the megachurch. Big churches took off in the 1980's precisely because they didn't ask much of the baby boomers who represented the bulk of their congregants. The stage lighting, surround-sound and theater-style seating turned worshipers into audience members. By the late 1990's, it was clear that this formula was no longer working. Slick, performance-oriented churches were drawing people, but they weren't always keeping them. National studies revealed that boomer attendance was dropping. Just as some megachurches had only recently repurposed empty strip malls and multiplexes to accommodate their growing crowds, they were now in danger of being repurposed themselves if they didn't adapt.
 At the same time, some megachurch pastors began to worry that they weren't really reaching people. Rather, they were producing what the theologian Sally Morgenthaler has called ''a generation of spectators, religious onlookers.'' In order to transform lives, they needed to find a way to deepen involvement -- to encourage people to integrate the church into their everyday lives and build relationships with other Christians. Polls have since confirmed this hunch. Most Christians who say they have been changed by their church attribute it not to their pastors' sermons but to their small groups, where people can share, in the words of Dave Travis, who runs the megachurch consultancy, ''their deepest hopes and hurts.'' This was, after all, the model of Jesus and his disciples: What I've done with you, you now do with other people.
 Small groups are an important part of McFarland's plan to convert what he calls ''baby Christians'' into ''mature Christians.'' Radiant has groups for everyone: singles, couples with children, couples without children, divorced women, married men, stay-at-home moms, widows. Many use a Christian DVD study kit, ''Life Together: Connecting With God's Family.'' Some groups involve Bible study; others are built around subjects like Christian parenting. Whatever the theme, the goal is always the same: to build what Travis refers to as ''authentic communities.''
 Getting casual worshipers to take this next step isn't easy. Only about 800 people, or a little less than 20 percent of Radiant's weekend congregants, participate in any of its 80 small groups. Such numbers are not uncommon. It's rare for small-group participation at a megachurch to break 30 percent, says Eddie Gibbs, a professor of church growth at the Fuller Theological Seminary in California.
 That said, 800 people do orient their lives around Radiant. Brett and Cristina Bergstrom are two of them. Brett's first encounter with the power of fellowship at Radiant came a few years ago on the church's basketball court. He and Cristina had just been to Sunday services at Radiant for the first time -- their 9-year-old son had been going on Saturday nights with a friend for months -- and Brett, who played basketball in college, noticed that the church held pickup games on Tuesday nights. Brett came back a couple of days later to play and blew out his Achilles' tendon. His 6-feet-7-inch, 280-pound frame toppled like a redwood. ''One of the guys I was playing with asked me if I was a Christian,'' he told me one afternoon in the hot-tub dealership he owns and operates in Surprise. ''When I said yes, they all got down on the floor and prayed with me until the ambulance came.''
 For several months, Brett and Cristina attended a Christian parenting class at the church, where they discussed things like how to help their kids handle science class in public school. (''If the teacher is up there teaching evolution as fact,'' Brett told me, ''there's nothing wrong with you asking very pointed questions, and it's a great opportunity to share your faith.'') Brett and Cristina attend a potluck dinner every other Saturday night with couples from the church. On Tuesday nights, Brett leads a Bible study class at the church; on Friday mornings he has breakfast with a group of Christian contractors. ''Now I know what it means to have brothers in Christ -- seeing guys, giving big hugs to each other, just that feeling,'' he told me, explaining the transformative effect that the church's small groups have had on him. ''It's not Radiant magic dust, but Radiant encourages you to let the spirit grow inside you and take down the wall you build up around yourself.''
As soon as he arrived in Surprise, McFarland could see that the city didn't have the infrastructure to support an influx of young families. He sensed opportunity. ''From Day 1 we were going to be a church that was going to really impact our community and provide something very tangible that would solve a problem,'' he says. ''Just helping the community opened a lot of doors, made people feel like we weren't just a church.''
 The first problem McFarland set about solving was that of the public schools. The newly arriving parents told him they were terrible. So in the summer of 1998, less than a year after he'd started offering Sunday services, McFarland rented a trailer, strung up a banner and began signing up children for an as-yet-unbuilt charter school, Paradise Education Center; C.E.O., Lee McFarland. ''We had nothing to show them,'' he told me. ''Literally there was just land here.''
 It was a measure of just how desperate parents were for an alternative to the public schools that the parents of 225 children turned up, vaccination records in hand, and registered them. Today the school, a ring of single-story white stucco buildings directly across the street from Radiant's massive worship center, is thriving. It has more than 1,000 children, and a waiting list close to 200.
 Because the school relies on public funds, teachers are required to follow state-approved curriculum guides, but Paradise nevertheless provides free advertising for Radiant. ''To this day parents will come by here and go, 'We just moved to Surprise and my kids go to school here, so tell me about this church,' '' McFarland said. ''We usually say it's a real positive church, real upbeat, kind of a community feel. A great place to get to know people. And they go, 'Great, I'll check it out.' That story has happened hundreds of times.''
Today the problem with Surprise's public schools isn't merely one of quality, it's one of quantity. The city builds two elementary schools every year and a new high school every other year, but parents still complain of overcrowding. 
 Commercial development has started catching up with the population growth. Surprise's main thoroughfare, Bell Road, is now a traffic-choked avenue lined with strip malls filled with all of the usual suspects (Target, Home Depot, Wal-Mart, Wendy's, Chick-fil-A, etc.). But it's the affordable homes that draw people to the city. The appetite for houses is so strong that most developments have a lottery system; if there is no lottery, people camp out overnight whenever new properties are about to be released. Demand is pushing up prices. At one development I visited, Legacy Parc, homes are climbing between $5,000 and $15,000 every month. But even with these steady increases, the average house in Surprise goes for $175,000.
 It's an attractive price for many families who are either trying to make the move into the middle class or remain there in the face of mounting debt and growing expenses. Which explains why the typical Surprise resident, as in many fast-growing exurbs, is a young, white, married couple of modest means.
 These are people that the Republican Party has always run well with -- it's conventional wisdom among political analysts that young, middle-class couples raising children tend to be conservative -- and in 2004 the G.O.P. made a strong play for exurbanites. Megachurches were a key part of the strategy. Supporters were asked to supply the Bush-Cheney campaign with church directories so it could make sure these churchgoers were registered and planning to vote. ''For the first time we didn't just engage businesspeople or Second Amendment supporters; we engaged people who said they were motivated first and foremost by their values, and these people were often churchgoers,'' Gary Marx, a liaison to social conservatives for the campaign, told me recently. ''We asked them to reach out to their community, and their community is the megachurch.''
 Marx also went directly to megachurch pastors, not for endorsements, he says, but to encourage them to help get out the vote. More often than not, he was well received. ''An old-line pastor who went to seminary in the 60's is not going to be open to something like Citizenship Sundays when you pass out registration cards to everyone at the church,'' Marx said. ''But many of the pastors of these megachurches are in their late 30's, early 40's. They were teenagers during the Reagan years, and that's when conservatism and engagement by evangelicals began to become mainstream. So they would be more willing to do voter drives and things like that, more tuned into citizenship and engaging the community beyond soup kitchens.''
 Maricopa County, where Surprise is situated, voted 57 percent for Bush to 42 percent for Kerry. In the run-up to the election, Radiant published nonpartisan voter guides in the church bulletin, and McFarland gave a sermon about the importance of voting, though he was careful not to express support for either candidate -- ''God isn't a Republican or a Democrat,'' he said. Still, the very fact that McFarland's sermons are intended to feel ''relevant,'' as he likes to say, means he at times takes on issues like abortion and homosexuality, both of which he believes are sinful. McFarland's views are rooted in his faith, but congregants may, no doubt, draw political conclusions.
One Sunday in the middle of February, McFarland jammed with the Radiant band as it warmed the crowd up for his message. When he's in the mood, he sometimes plays the keyboard, but this morning he was just slapping a tambourine against his hip and smiling. McFarland's spiky black hair was standing straight up, and he wore the same basic Jimmy Buffett outfit -- jeans, sneakers and an untucked red Hawaiian shirt -- that he's been wearing for seven years now. The effect was both festive and dorky, like that of a goofy but endearing uncle.
 Most of the congregants swayed to the music and sang along; some had their eyes closed, their hands raised toward the sky. The leader of the worship band, Pastor Tony, brought things to a climax -- shouting, ''We love you, Jesus!'' over his band's last lingering notes -- and McFarland settled in behind his plexiglass podium to deliver his sermon: ''How to Enjoy Valentine's Day . . . Whether Single or Married.'' He spoke casually, though his sentences all felt scripted, and there was a hint of self-consciousness about his body language -- not so much that he appeared awkward, but enough so that he seemed a little uncomfortable in his role as religious leader.
 Within minutes, McFarland was talking about his own marriage, and how his chronic failure to properly sort lights and darks led to his banishment from the laundry room. A half-hour later, McFarland instructed the congregants to lower their heads in a brief prayer, and the sermon was over. ''Fire it up, Pastor Tony!' McFarland said as he retreated to the back of the worship room, parked himself by the door and doled out bearhugs to exiting worshipers. 
 McFarland works under the assumption that people don't want to be intimidated by their pastors, that modernity has punctured the myth of the morally superior religious leader. He is replacing the sinner-be-damned fundamentalism that once characterized much of evangelical Christianity with forgiveness. McFarland never talks about transforming your life through struggle, surrender or sacrifice; he talks about being happier by accepting Jesus -- into your office, your kitchen, your backyard, your marital bed, everywhere. ''People aren't looking for the elevated holy man who's got all of the answers,'' he told me one afternoon. ''They want someone to be real with them.''
 He has a knack for this, in part because he has the perfect back story for the leader of a church that aims at middle- and lower-middle-class 30-somethings who are looking to improve their lot. McFarland studied engineering at the University of Colorado, and before starting Radiant, he had worked his way up to a $160,000-a-year (plus stock options) job at Microsoft. He often alludes to his first career in his messages; it's a clever evangelical technique, a subtle way of letting people know that he once had what they're aspiring to and gave it up to work for the Lord.
 McFarland frequently refers to himself as a mail-order pastor. In fact -- and he readily acknowledges this too -- he never finished his pastoral coursework. He can lead Radiant anyway because the denomination to which Radiant belongs, the Assemblies of God, doesn't require its pastors to be ordained. This is not a mere quirk in the bylaws. The Assemblies, a Pentecostal movement that grew out of the preapocalyptic revivalism of the early 20th century and counts John Ashcroft (the son of an Assemblies minister) among its more prominent members, has historically been skeptical of all institutional education, seminaries included. The movement now has its own seminary in Springfield, Mo., but it continues to hew to tenets that most other denominations consider radical. Among other things, the Assemblies treats the Bible as fact and believes in miracles, faith healing and speaking in tongues.
 The only cue that there is any relationship between Radiant and the Assemblies of God is a small, discreetly placed plaque in the foyer of the main worship room of the church. McFarland never mentions the Assemblies in his sermons for the simple reason that he's afraid it will turn people off. 
 It is only when casual worshipers are considering getting more involved at Radiant that they learn about the Assemblies affiliation, and even then McFarland handles the issue carefully. At a recent three-hour Saturday-morning orientation class for ''new believers'' who want to learn more about the church, he poked fun at the movement -- ''What they're known for is being real Holy Ghost: speaking in tongues, swinging from the chandeliers, all that kind of crazy stuff'' -- and assured his audience that Radiant is ''the most different Assemblies church.'' 
 McFarland grew up in a Lutheran family in St. Louis. He discovered the Assemblies through his wife, Sandy, whose family belonged to the denomination, when they met in Colorado. Before Sandy's parents would allow him to take her out, they insisted that he come to church with them on a Sunday night. McFarland nearly freaked out. ''There was a band up on stage,'' he said, ''people were dancing, and then the pastor comes out. He's 6-foot-6. He's mad at everyone. He's pointing at people: 'You are a sinner!' And I'm like, Gosh, I'm sorry.'' McFarland continued, ''People are flopping around like fish, going, 'Yak, yak, yak,' speaking in tongues, and I'm like, 'What's next, snakes?' ''
 The service lasted two and a half hours; McFarland was exhausted by the end. Sandy asked him what he thought. ''I said, 'It was cool, but just so we're clear, I will never do that again,' '' he told me. ''Well, don't ever say never to God, because he will rub your nose in it.''
 After McFarland and Sandy married, they joined her family's church. He gradually grew more comfortable there, though he never felt fully at home. Eventually, he and Sandy went shopping for another place of worship and wound up at a different Assemblies church, albeit one with less overt spiritual fervor.
 Radiant's desire to keep the Assemblies at arm's length notwithstanding, McFarland is an unapologetic believer in the movement's doctrines. He even says he speaks in tongues, though when he tells his worshipers the story of how he came to ''exercise the gift'' it sounds as mundane as such a thing can. He was on his lunch break, driving around in his brown Trans Am, listening to the tape of a sermon that a pastor had made for him, when he found himself on the steps of his house speaking a language he had never before spoken. ''I received the Holy Spirit through a cassette tape,'' as he put it.
 The Assemblies of God has a complicated view of Radiant and other user-friendly churches like it. Some ministers are thrilled with their success; others worry about the cost of trying to appeal to everyone. ''There are people in the Assemblies who are quite concerned that when you have a pastor who says we don't want the vocal gifts of the spirit expressed at weekend services, then the question is raised: 'What's going on here, is this really a Pentecostal church?' '' Gary McGee, a professor of church history at the Assemblies of God seminary, told me. ''My personal opinion is that it's more important to lead someone to Christ than it is to fuss over which method of church worship is being used.''
 McFarland says he has heard his share of complaints from fellow Assemblies pastors about ''watered-down'' preaching. ''I had one guy from the Assemblies say to me, 'It's easy to fill a room.' And I was like: 'Oh, yeah? Show me, dude, because we're finding that it takes a lot of work.' ''
Expanding the flock through evangelism is a core principle of Christianity, but the modern church-growth movement traces its roots to Donald McGavran, a Christian missionary who worked in India during the first half of the 20th century. What McGavran discovered and articulated in his 1955 book, ''The Bridges of God,'' was that churches can't operate like mission stations, rigidly insisting upon their ways and inviting people to come to them on their terms. Rather, they had to go into villages and make followers of Christ. There was simply no other way to build a dynamic Christian community, which McGavran considered a prerequisite for reaching the unchurched. 
 McGavran's words were written for overseas missionaries who would be encountering people who knew nothing about Jesus, but they resonated powerfully in America. As the 60's progressed, a new generation came of age, one that felt increasingly alienated from the churches in which they'd been raised. At the same time, more and more families were relocating from the cities to outlying areas. It was clear to church leaders that if they wanted to capture these new suburbanites (and a little later, exurbanites), they were going to have to go after them on their turf. The problem was that most pastors had been taught plenty of theology at seminary, but very little about how to actually build a church. So church leaders turned to McGavran for guidance. A nascent industry of church-growth experts adapted his model, encouraging pastors to engage their local communities by treating potential worshipers as consumers.
 The modern master of church growth is Rick Warren. In the early 1980's, Warren, a fifth-generation Southern Baptist, applied McGavran's philosophies to his Orange County church, Saddleback. Warren's community was cut from a very different cultural cloth than his own family's; things like altar calls, a Southern Baptist staple in which worshipers are exhorted to come to the front of the church and accept Jesus, would never play in the wealthy suburbs of Southern California. Instead, Warren set about building a profile of ''Saddleback Sam''; once he had a sense of his average worshiper's likes (i.e. contemporary music) and dislikes (preachy, guilt-inducing sermons), he built Saddleback to accommodate him. A result was the so-called seeker-sensitive church.
 Saddleback is now one of the largest churches in the country, with a congregation of more than 15,000, and Warren, a cuddly-looking middle-aged man with a retreating hair line, is no longer just a church pastor. His 2002 book, ''The Purpose-Driven Life,'' which lays out a 40-day program to discover God's purpose for us, has sold more than 20 million copies. Less tangible though no less significant has been Warren's role in influencing more than 100,000 pastors through Saddleback's conferences, Web sites and prepackaged purpose-driven kits.
 McFarland is an unabashed acolyte. The church-building seminar that McFarland attended before he moved to Surprise was led by Warren, and nearly all of the techniques he has used to build his church -- the informal marketing study; the communication cards; the self-deprecating, Everyman persona; even the untucked Hawaiian shirt -- are taken straight from Warren's playbook. This is not plagiarism. Warren doesn't copyright anything, and he describes his purpose-driven formula as an Intel chip that can be inserted into the metaphorical motherboard of any church. Some 30,000 churches across the denominational spectrum now define themselves as ''purpose-driven.''
 As his fame has grown, Warren has come in for plenty of criticism from other pastors. Should churches really be chasing popular culture? Isn't preaching only positive messages a reductive, if not distorted, approach to the Gospels? Shouldn't true believers be in natural conflict with the secular world? ''There's a healthy reaction here against a legalistic religion of dos and don'ts,'' says Gibbs of the Fuller Theological Seminary, referring to the purpose-driven approach. ''The danger, though, is that you end up with a Gospel that endeavors to meet your needs without challenging your priorities.''
 Similar criticisms can be made of Radiant. By modeling his church after a mall, McFarland is, deliberately or not, desanctifying it. While his self-helpish sermons clearly resonate with transient exurbanites looking for ways to improve their lives, they can be seen as subverting the real purpose of worship. ''Worship is designed not to make people feel good about themselves . . . but to make them holy,'' Gibbs writes in ''Church Next,'' his book about the future of Christianity in America. Gibbs also wonders about the ultimate effect of the steady diet of sentimental praise songs at places like Radiant: ''Intimate worship that degenerates into a casual overfamiliarity is both presumptuous and embarrassing to those who see God from a transcendental perspective.''
Tom Tunget, a bearish ex-cop in his early 40's, greeted me at the door of his home in Surprise, wearing a T-shirt with a silk-screened image of Jesus, his arms outstretched on the cross. Underneath it were the words ''I love you this much.'' It's a fitting motto for Radiant, where love invariably trumps judgment.
 Tom led me into the living room, and he and his wife, Cathy, who is also a former cop, told me the story of how they found their way to Surprise. When they retired from the Los Angeles police force several years ago, the Tungents bought a couple of horses and five acres in Colorado. The idyllic small-town life they had imagined turned out to be cold and lonely. Tom's brother lived near Phoenix, so they went to Arizona last summer to look for a piece of rural property. Driving through Surprise one afternoon, however, they noticed a billboard for Radiant and decided to check it out. Within weeks of attending their first service, they sold their land in Colorado, gave their horses to a friend and bought a tract home in a development just a few miles from the church. Now their weeks are packed with Radiant-related activities. 
 McFarland's emphasis on love struck a particular chord with Tom and Cathy. Tom opened up a small binder -- Radiant passes out fill-in-the-blank outlines at every service that worshipers are encouraged to keep -- to help him explain. '' 'Whatever a person is like, I try to find common ground with him so he'll let me tell him about Christ and let Christ save him,' '' he read, quoting one of McFarland's recent sermons. ''Having been deputy sheriffs, we have tended to judge people from what we see them do -- we had to because that's how we stayed alive in that job -- but now it's about not judging people.''
 When you ask people how Radiant has changed their lives, they will almost invariably talk about how it helped open their hearts. But there's a kind of narrowing going on here as well, which became clear a few minutes later, when Tom flipped to another passage from a recent sermon. '' 'Some seed fell among the thorny weeds, and the weeds grew up with them and choked the good plants,' '' he read, quoting Luke 8:7. Then he added his exegesis: ''We've had friends who were not Christian, and for me they were like the thorny weeds,'' he said. ''We've had to commit ourselves to friends who could help us grow spiritually.''
 The following night I heard this same message, communicated more explicitly, at Radiant's youth service. ''If I asked how many of you have close friends who are unbelievers, a lot of you would probably raise your hands,'' the pastor told the crowd of about 150 teenagers, most of whom looked dressed for a rock concert. ''I'll tell you right now, if one of you is a believer and the other is not, your relationship is doomed.''
Such occasional admonishment notwithstanding, at Radiant, almost everything is expressed in positive terms.
 When McFarland makes his pitch for tithing, he avoids guilt trips, assuring his congregants that if they give 10 percent of their income to the church, God will make sure that the remaining 90 percent will go further than the full 100 percent ever would have. Even when he tackles a subject like homosexuality, an issue about which the Assemblies is unambiguous in its condemnation, he frames his message as one of compassion, entitling the sermon ''What to Say to a Gay Friend.'' This happens to be something McFarland has personal experience with. His younger brother, who lives in Southern California, is gay. When I asked McFarland to repeat the gist of his sermon about homosexuality, he told me it was the same speech he's given to his brother at least 20 times: ''I don't believe you were born gay. I was your brother; I grew up with you. I was there. I see that you got involved with a tennis pro who was gay when you were 18, and that's when everything switched.''
 With his easygoing approach to saving souls, McFarland couldn't be more different from the television evangelists of the 1980's. This is not to say that he's less committed to the ultimate cause. As McFarland sees it, Radiant must continue to add members. ''Churches that have stopped growing,'' he says, ''have stopped hearing the screams of people being sent to hell.''
 What remains to be seen is how many of the congregants McFarland is adding are just passing through evangelical Christianity the way that many of them are, no doubt, just passing through Surprise -- in short, whether the exurban megachurch represents the future of Christianity in this country or whether it is just another chapter in the evolving story of the American seeker.
 For his part, McFarland is already talking about moving the church again to accommodate the ever-expanding crowds. His hero is Joel Osteen, the handsome and charismatic 41-year-old pastor of America's biggest megachurch, Lakewood Church, in Houston. Lakewood has grown so big that Osteen decided to move the church to a former sports arena that seats 16,000. ''I keep saying the growth is going to level off,'' McFarland said. ''Then I think, Well, maybe Joel Osteen said that, too -- and then he decided to lease the Compaq Center.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Good News Update: Radiant's marketing campaigns tend to avoid any overt religiosity.
Dude at the Pulpit: Lee McFarland received his religious training from a correspondence course
his ever-expanding congregation is a result of strategies he picked up in a ''church growth'' seminar.
Side-Door Evangelism: Like most megachurches, Radiant attracts many new members not just through its sermons -- the so-called front door -- but through its services and amenities, like child care, counseling and free doughnuts. (Radiant's annual Krispy Kreme budget is $16,000.) Right: A development typical of the exurbs of Phoenix, where housing costs are relatively low and the architecture of social engagement -- front stoops, porches and parks -- is rarely seen.
 Tending the Flock In addition to Xbox and snacks, Radiant also provides worship services for children. (Photographs by Stephen Shore for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); DISTANCE LEARNING (71%); COTTON MARKETS (67%); POP & ROCK (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



581 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; DEAL & DISCOUNTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

BYLINE: By PAMELA NOEL

 BODY:

RENTAL CAR COUPONS -- Hertz is making available to all renters a no-blackout-date policy for its discount coupons through December. Even those without coupons can get $20 off a weekly leisure rental for economy or full-size cars and $25 off weekly leisure rentals of premium cars through July. Use promotion code 966011 (economy or full size) or 966033 (premium or above) when making a reservation. Even renters in metropolitan New York are eligible, a spokeswoman said. Reservations: (800) 654-2210; www.hertz.com.

EAT, DRINK, SAVE -- From May 31 through Sept. 15, the Millennium Resort Scottsdale McCormick Ranch in Arizona has a $100 for $100 Package in which guests receive a $100 credit for food or beverages within the hotel (including room service). The rates start at $100 per room per night, Sunday through Thursday, or at $125 per room per night Fridays and Saturdays, depending on availability. Taxes, tips and a $9 daily resort fee are not included; call (866) 866-8086.

CANADA BY TRAIN -- Via Rail Canada has discounts this spring and summer, including free travel for children under 11 (who normally pay half-price) from May 27 to Sept. 5. Details: (888) 842-7245; www.viarail.ca. PAMELA NOEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL COUPONS (90%); RESORTS (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); TRAINS (71%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Pamela Noel

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



582 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: A Negative Reinvention

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The article ''Williamsburg Reinvented'' (March 20) paints a picture of an area in desperate need of development, with locals quoted as saying they welcome the rezoning.
 No mention is made of the major protests by residents and local businesses. Most of the new building is luxury high-rise condos, which few of the young ''creative'' professionals mentioned in the article can afford (one architect even says so).
 Williamsburg's charm is in its low-slung buildings, quirky boutiques, bookstores and restaurants. Already, local businesses are unable to renew leases, as owners eagerly await the rezoning. Williamsburg can anticipate a Starbucks, Duane Reade and Barnes & Noble on every corner.
 Waterfront rezoning will allow towers 40 stories high, utterly changing the neighborhood profile. In SoHo's transformation from artists' community to upscale neighborhood, at least no one suggested building high-rise towers to add more salable ''space.''
 Who would want to shop or live in SoHo if it looked like Midtown West? Ditto Williamsburg.

Ingalisa Schrobsdorff
Williamsburg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); BOOKSTORES (74%); TRENDS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Zoning; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: ingalisa schrobsdorff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Williamsburg (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



583 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: After College, Affordable Housing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Worker Shortages May Lead to Enticements'' (March 13):
 The article highlights a statewide shortage of workers in nursing. But the problem extends to teachers, technology workers and scores of other industries as well. The article failed to point out that housing affordable to recent college graduates is almost nonexistent. You can't work here if you can't afford to live here. Connecticut cannot compete successfully for these workers, who are vital to our economy, until we make housing a priority.

Anne K. Lynn
Darien

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



584 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-27-05; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Broke

BYLINE: By Walter Kirn. 
Walter Kirn, a frequent contributor to the magazine, is the author, most recently, of ''Up in the Air,'' a novel.

 BODY:
In the mid-1970's, around the time the parents of several school friends began going broke and losing their small farms because of high interest rates and falling crop prices, an envelope bearing an unfamiliar logo appeared in our mailbox. I carried it to the house and set it on the kitchen counter next to the radio my mother was listening to as she fried liver and onions on her old stove. She opened the envelope with a paring knife and drew out the thin, rectangular hard object I had been fingering through the paper. I remember the odd expression on her face -- a mixture of optimism and apprehension -- as she held the novelty out to me and said, ''It's a BankAmericard.'' About a week later the kitchen radio was replaced by a portable TV set. By the next summer, when the banks started foreclosing on our neighbors' farms, my mother's old stove had been replaced as well, a microwave oven stood beside it and the BankAmericards in my parents' wallets had been joined by American Express cards. 
 Every line of credit tells a story. Over the last few decades, as average Americans have taken on vastly higher levels of personal debt using an ever-increasing variety of financial instruments, the number and complexity of these stories have multiplied exponentially. The interactions of these millions of stories (does one family's updated kitchen, for example, relate in some way to the failing farm next door?) may be too difficult to comprehend, even for experts armed with supercomputers. What we all understand, however, is that these stories have only two fundamental endings.
 The unhappy ending is going bust, of course, and thanks to an almost certain new federal law that the president has vowed to sign, this ending is set to grow unhappier still -- at least for a significant percentage of the one million to one and a half million Americans who file for bankruptcy protection every year and will, as early as this autumn, find it much harder to wipe clean their books and get back on their economic feet. For the credit-card issuers and consumer-finance companies whose well-financed lobbyists backed the bill (whose central provision requires bankrupt debtors with incomes exceeding their statewide median incomes to settle for long-term repayment plans), the results should prove more gratifying.
 For a nation whose very founding can be viewed as an attempt to free itself from financial burdens thrust upon it by a distant ruler; for a government that is deeply in the red because of its own spendthrift ways; and for a political leadership whose emissaries have been pressuring other countries to forgive Iraqi debt, such a reform raises questions, to put it mildly. Then again, Americans, as a culture, have never thought or acted consistently on the issue of borrowing and repaying. Our stories on this subject are propelled by a never-ending conflict between two classes of economic antagonists: the thrifty, moralistic Ben Franklin figures who stand for simplicity and responsibility and the spendthrift, zealous Donald Trump types who represent dynamism and raw vigor.
 As the financial pages and cable business channels ceaselessly try to persuade their audiences, our current national prosperity depends on mass displays of Trumpish optimism. Buy a digital camera for the home team. Stock up on iPods for Uncle Sam. Impulsively buying luxury goods is touted by our political and business leaders as a crucial civic duty. Whether these patriotic injunctions to break out our MasterCards, hit the malls and propel the financial market to new highs actually influence people's spending habits remains an open question, but they certainly help the little Trumps feel nobler about the spending they do anyway -- particularly the spending they can't afford for items they're not quite sure they need.
 And then someone falls ill or is divorced or suffers a loss of emotional self-control and buys a $9,000 plasma TV by taking out a tax-advantaged loan secured by the home where the set was meant to go. A struggle to redeem himself ensues. The credit-card company that first beguiled the debtor with a low-interest ''introductory'' rate announces that because of a tardy payment the previous month, that rate has sextupled to a level once forbidden by usury laws but now perfectly permissible. To shake the plastic monkey off his back, the debtor obtains another low-interest card, shifts his balance to it, misses another payment and is attacked by a second monkey, with fangs.
 The next day a letter from the National Guard arrives informing the fellow to pack a duffel bag because he's headed to Iraq. While he's reading these dire words, the telephone rings, but the fellow doesn't answer it because he now knows that the people on the line -- who typically identify themselves with blandly sinister pseudonyms like ''Mrs. Smith'' or, merely, ''Edward'' -- can be counted on to call again just before dawn the next day.
 The tragedy reaches its climax at this point. Suddenly the same figures that urged the debtor to shop until he dropped surround his fallen body like hissing Puritans out of a Nathaniel Hawthorne fable. Garbed in steeple hats and bursting with pointed apothegms about pennies saved and rainy days, they close in with their red-hot branding irons and mark his flesh with a shy scarlet ''B,'' after which they type it on a screen connected to every computer in America. 
 Until recently, the stigma of that B was considered punishment enough for the unfortunate and the imprudent. Sure, it prevented the debtor from obtaining credit (except from those grungy strip-mall ''check advance'' joints that turn a hundred dollars into 50). But under the regulations governing so-called Chapter 7 bankruptcies, it also freed him from further harassment by Mrs. Smith types while (probably) allowing him to keep his car and home and become the protagonist in a new story that takes up where the old one ended. By keeping his feet on the ground like a Franklin and his eyes on the horizon like a Trump, the hero could go on to balance prudence and enthusiasm, caution and vitality and achieve the sort of financial happy ending sought by both individuals and societies.
 The new bankruptcy legislation will trap debtors in a story that drags on and on toward a climax that never quite comes and can thus never be fully resolved. Even the farmers who lost their land back when my mother was buying TV's and microwaves with her nifty new BankAmericard were able to put down their plows for good one day and start over as mechanics or insurance agents rather than hanging on as low-paid serfs for the lords of agribusiness who bought their places for pennies on the dollar. But the sharecroppers on the virtual Visa farms and MasterCard plantations of the future won't be able to leave the fields so easily. The rows they'll be hoeing will just go on and on. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Erik Rank/Photonica)Chart: ''WHERE WE GO BUST, MOST''Percentage of households filing for bankruptcy in the year ending March 2004:Utah 2.73%Tennessee 2.58Georgia 2.35U.S. average 1.37Massachusetts .69Vermont .64Alaska .58Numbers based on data from American Bankruptcy Institute, 2003-04

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (66%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



585 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
TEELE, THURSTON FERDINAND ''TONY''

 BODY:
 TEELE--Thurston Ferdinand ''Tony''. 70, chairman and founder of Chemonics International, Inc., died March 21, 2005, after a long battle with lymphoma, at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C., with his wife and children by his side. Mr. Teele was an active, compassionate humanitarian who was loved and will be missed by many throughout the world. Mr. Teele was born in New Rochelle, NY, and grew up in Needham, MA, where his father Stanley F. Teele was a faculty member and eventually dean of the Harvard Business School. Mr. Teele attended high school at Buckingham, Brown and Nichols in Cambridge, MA, where he excelled at varsity sports. At Amherst College, in Amherst, MA, he earned a B.A. in political science, while playing football and serving as editor of the school paper. He earned an M.A. in economics from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Medford, MA, and completed the coursework for a Ph.D. (abd) in economics from Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Mr. Teele, a longtime DC resident, began his career as a foreign service officer, working as a political officer in Greece and as an analyst in the USAID executive secretariat. From there he focused his career on economic development, living and working in such countries as Afghanistan, Liberia, Nigeria, Thailand and Turkey, until he founded Chemonics. Mr. Teele served as Chemonics' president from its founding in 1975 until 2002 when he became chairman of the board. Originally a one-man business, the company today has over 2,000 employees in 95 countries and is a leader in sponsored economic development worldwide. Mr. Teele is widely considered a pioneer in global economic development. Mr. Teele was a strong proponent of a culturally appropriate, results-oriented approach to economic development. He worked to raise awareness of international development by serving as vice president and board member for the Campaign for U.S. Global Leadership, board member for the Society for International Development, and co-chair of the International Development Task Force of the Professional Services Council. As an associate professor, he taught a course on economic development at Georgetown University, and was frequently a guest lecturer on this topic at numerous institutions. A natural linguist, Mr. Teele spoke fluent French and was comfortable speaking Spanish, German, Thai, Turkish, Portuguese, Greek, and Farsi. With a lifelong love for business and personal travel, he visited more than 85 countries on 5 continents. In spite of his illness, he continued to travel on behalf of Chemonics, visiting countries such as Afghanistan, China, Mongolia, South Africa, Denmark, and France over the past two years. Mr. Teele's legacy is his respect for people, his passion for development, and the values he lived every day. He achieved his dream to make the world a better place. He is survived by his loving wife of 23 years Barbara C. Teele, formerly of Dothan, AL, and five children: Ted Teele of Pittsburgh, PA, Stacia Teele of New York City, NY, Mark Carmichael of Scottsdale, AZ, Kristy Teele of Ledbury, England, Allan Teele of San Francisco, CA, and nine grandchildren. Mr. Teele is also survived by his brother Perry Teele of Bradford, NH, and his sister Melissa Woodbury of St. Augustine, FL. Family will receive friends at a memorial service at 12:30 pm on Saturday, April 2, at the National City Christian Church, 5 Thomas Circle, NW, Washington, DC. A reception will immediately follow at the Andrew Mellon Auditorium, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia Program, (Attn: ''Tony Teele Research Fund'') and sent to Dana Farber Cancer Institute, D1B07-Christopher Patterson, 44 Binney St. Boston, MA 02155. For more information, go to www.chemonics.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CANCER (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); POLITICS (74%); LYMPHOMA (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHEMONICS INTERNATIONAL INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (92%); MONGOLIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); GREECE (70%); THAILAND (69%); AFGHANISTAN (69%); DENMARK (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



586 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Essay; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2713 words

HEADLINE: The Tempest In the Ivory Tower

BYLINE: By Rachel Donadio. 
Rachel Donadio is a writer and editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
In 1937, H. L. Mencken offered some advice to the son of the publisher Alfred A. Knopf. ''My guess is you'd have more fun at Yale than at Princeton, but my real choice is Harvard,'' he wrote. ''I don't think Harvard is a better university than the other two, but it seems that Americans set a higher value on its A.B. If I had a son I'd take him to Cambridge and chain him to the campus pump to remain there until he had acquired a sound Harvard accent. It's worth money in this great free Republic.''
 And so it is. No university occupies a more central place in the American imagination than Harvard. In ''The Sound and the Fury,'' the Compson family sells an inheritance of pastureland to send their son Quentin north to Harvard. His experience there, albeit fictional, does not become the stuff of university promotional materials. Bedeviled by a Southern past at odds with the secure respectability that Harvard promises to confer, Quentin cracks up and drowns himself in the Charles River. ''Harvard my Harvard boy Harvard harvard,'' he daydreams at one point. Repeated over and over, the word is reduced to syllables, those syllables to nothing. 
 Harvard, boy, Harvard. What is Harvard? That question has come to the fore more than ever during the tumultuous presidency of Lawrence H. Summers. A brilliant economist who took office in 2001, Summers has become known for his brutally direct leadership style. As one joke circulating has it, he opens his mouth only to change feet. His latest stumble came in January. In off-the-cuff remarks at a conference on women in the sciences, Summers said he wouldn't rule out the possibility that innate gender differences might help explain why there aren't more women in the hard sciences. Offered tentatively, his comments set off a fierce debate, at Harvard and beyond. Summers apologized to the faculty and vowed to ''temper'' his ''words and actions.'' But that wasn't enough for members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, who passed a no-confidence vote in Summers at a faculty meeting on March 15 -- the Ides of March. Taken by secret ballot, the vote was largely symbolic and did not include professional school faculty members. Nevertheless, it was believed to be the first in the university's history, and it sent a strong message of discontent. (The Harvard trustees have showed no sign of lessening their support for Summers, but at press time his fate remained uncertain.) 
 The science comments weren't Summers's first misstep. Early in his tenure, he had a notoriously testy exchange with one of the stars of the university's Afro-American studies department, Cornel West, who quit and went to Princeton after Summers questioned his gravitas. Other incidents followed, which highlighted Summers's seeming disregard for diplomacy and alienated many on Harvard's faculty. To some, however, the outrage was also a sign of trouble in academia -- which, as the critic Stephen Metcalf recently observed in Slate, ''has devolved into a series of now highly routinized acts of flattery, so carefully attended to that one out-of-place word is enough to fracture dozens of egos.'' 
 But these altercations, though heated, are skirmishes in a much larger battle developing at Harvard and beyond. In some ways, it recalls the campus turmoil of the 1960's. Only this time around, the protesters aren't the undergraduates; they're the faculty, who to some extent remain immersed in the values and pieties of the 60's and are clashing with a president intent on bringing Harvard in line with today's political and economic realities. What's happening at Harvard goes far beyond Summers's personality; instead, it's about larger social and political transformations to which the academy -- essentially a conservative institution made up of thousands of progressive minds -- is deeply resistant. 
 Much of this is mapped out in Richard Bradley's Harvard Rules (HarperCollins, $25.95), a timely new book that sets out to catalog the flaws of Larry Summers. Well-paced and juicy, it nevertheless relies heavily on innuendo and on other people's reporting, since Summers wouldn't grant an interview to Bradley, a former editor at George magazine. Even so, ''Harvard Rules'' manages to shed much light on the current situation. In Bradley's view, Summers's mission has been ''to purge Harvard of the bonds that kept it from realizing its enormous potential and seeing itself in a new way -- his new way. And that meant eradicating the influence of the 1960's.''
 In some respects, Summers was a canny choice for the presidency. In his teaching days, he was the youngest professor ever given tenure at Harvard, at age 28, and was widely considered Nobel Prize material. He is a liberal, but of a particular kind. A former chief economist of the World Bank, Summers succeeded Robert Rubin as treasury secretary under Bill Clinton and was a leading proponent of globalization when many other liberals were lamenting its discontents. Summers also hews to a kind of bottom-line market-
 driven thinking, which can seem deeply at odds with the humanistic values of the academy. And he is unapologetic about American power on a campus steeped in post-Vietnam ambivalence about such things. 
 In Cambridge, all this made Summers ''an unabashedly mainstream figure in a highly progressive culture,'' as James Traub wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 2003. Yet Summers's politics and his brashness made him appealing to the Harvard trustees, who were seeking a president to pursue a mandate all but guaranteed to win enemies. Harvard, whose endowment stands at a staggering $22.6 billion, had launched plans for a massive expansion. Spurred in part by Cambridge's restrictive zoning, in the 1990's Harvard bought some 200 acres in Allston, an area of Boston across the Charles River from Cambridge. 
 Still in the planning phases, the expansion has been a hornet's nest of complication, from negotiating town-gown tensions to determining which departments would be relocated. This has been especially problematic because of the university's decentralized structure, in which each of Harvard's professional schools and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences raise their own money and control their own budgets. Autonomy means power. As Morton Keller and Phyllis Keller report in their excellent ''Making Harvard Modern'' (Oxford, 2001), when Summers's predecessor, Neil Rudenstine, sounded out the law school in 1999 about possibly moving to Allston, they voted not even to consider it. The ''deferential'' Rudenstine, as Bradley depicts him, didn't push the matter. Summers, however, was appointed because of his willingness to ruffle feathers, with the understanding he would centralize power and guide the expansion forward. While Summers would certainly be better served if he secured the faculty's blessing, in practice, he doesn't need it. And so the frustrated faculty now finds itself sidelined in a crucial debate about its own future. 
 Against this background, the resentment over Summers's comments about women becomes clearer. His remarks may have been misguided, but what is the point of a university if not to provide a forum for airing controversial ideas? Summers's comments seemed to mark a return to an earlier era in the gender debate -- and so did the intensity of the response. In fact, today, the definition of feminism is open to interpretation. Now, a woman with an advanced degree can leave the workplace to become a stay-at-home mom and still be a feminist; she might even watch ''Desperate Housewives.'' In the broader culture, if not on campuses, the era of political correctness is decidedly over. 
 But if P.C. is over, what comes next? There's no easy tag line for ''the oughts,'' because there's no immediately recognizable constellation of values. At moments like this, fraught with ironies and ambivalences, it's a relief to find villains. Yet the animosity is not just toward Summers himself, but also toward his stated intent to steer Harvard closer to the mainstream.
 His presidency, which began in October 2001, has overlapped with one of the most unsettling times this nation has faced, and he has viewed that as an opportunity to redress what he has called the ''post-Vietnam cleavage between coastal elites and certain mainstream values.'' He vocally supported bringing R.O.T.C. back to Harvard from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where it had been exiled after Vietnam-era campus protests and where it remained because of later protests over the military's discrimination against homosexuals. And he supported Harvard's honoring the Solomon Amendment, which ties federal funding to universities' allowing military recruitment on campus, something students and faculty had protested. In this way, as Bradley writes, ''Summers explicitly linked the future of the United States in its fight against terrorism with the success of Harvard.'' 
 In another effort to address the global situation, Summers delivered a speech on campus in September 2002 in which he criticized a campaign calling on Harvard and other universities to divest from Israel. ''Serious and thoughtful people are advocating and taking actions that are anti-Semitic in their effect if not their intent,'' he said. As his detractors saw it, ''Summers had crafted his talk not to promote debate, but to silence it,'' Bradley writes. In any case, Summers had sent a clear message, one other university presidents have been notably loath to communicate even as ugly anti-Israel sentiment in the guise of leftist open-mindedness has rippled across their campuses. 
 It's not altogether surprising, then, that Bradley's book includes descriptions of Summers that echo familiar characterizations of President Bush. Summers ''is not an intellectual, because intellectuals know the power of doubt,'' a professor and signer of the divestment petition tells Bradley. In Bradley's view, that's only one of his shortcomings. Among many cartoonish characterizations in ''Harvard Rules,'' he dwells on Summers's table manners and often disheveled appearance. Beyond that he emphasizes that Summers happens to be the first Jewish president of Harvard, and notes that that might inform his views on Israel and foreign policy. He also speculates about New Republic editors ''whispering'' in Summers's ear.
 All this aside, Summers and the faculty have also differed over the nature and importance of a liberal arts education. With the rallying cry that students should know the difference between a gene and a chromosome and focus more on concrete knowledge and less on ''ways of knowing,'' Summers ambitiously decided to reform Harvard's curriculum. But his method worried many in the university. In the most convincing chapter in ''Harvard Rules,'' Bradley recounts how a report on the curriculum was delegated to administrators who commanded little authority and were perceived by some as puppets of Summers. What is more, Summers urged the evaluators to complete their analysis in less than a year, a remarkably short time compared with Harvard's earlier curricular reviews. Harvard's last major curriculum reform, in the 70's, capped years of careful study and produced the Core Curriculum, in which students are required to take courses in set subject areas, including sciences, literature and arts, historical studies, foreign cultures, and quantitative reasoning.
 In the end, a report published in April 2003 set a series of ambitious yet vague goals, including replacing the Core Curriculum with distribution requirements and putting a greater emphasis on ''interdisciplinary courses.'' One of its most striking recommendations, however, was that Harvard should ''develop distinctive course materials for use in, and potentially beyond, Harvard College,'' Bradley writes. The implication was that ''at some point, Larry Summers wanted to market those courses to students around the world, to use the Harvard brand name to teach 'foundational knowledge' to students whether they went to Harvard College or not,'' Bradley adds. This, he says, is a way ''to further stamp Harvard's imprint on the world's education; to promote an empire of the mind.'' And that inextricably identifies Summers with the broader, more vexed debate about the role America should hold among the nations. Indeed, the animosity toward Summers is also implicitly that of an academic culture, steeped for decades in questioning authority, that has awakened to find itself an imperial power.
 In all the recent turmoil, one Harvard constituency has been strangely marginalized: its undergraduates. They are the focus of another new book, Privilege (Hyperion, $24.95), a memoir by Ross Gregory Douthat, a self-important young conservative vexed by the discrepancies between the Harvard of his dreams and the Harvard of reality. Douthat, class of 2002, devotes far too many pages to his undergraduate romantic woes. Nevertheless, he paints a vivid portrait of campus life. Douthat is disappointed by the Core Curriculum and finds its offerings ''maddeningly specific and often defiantly obscure.'' In Douthat's account, few Harvard courses seem particularly worthy of export on the international market. 
 Douthat, now a reporter-researcher at The Atlantic Monthly, was once employed to write SparkNotes, the cheat sheets students use to write term papers without doing the reading. He depicts his fellow Harvard undergraduates as essentially corner-cutting careerists, busy trying to score the right summer internships that will land them choice post-college gigs in Washington or New York. ''The ambitions of the undergraduates are those of a well-trained meritocratic elite, brought up to believe that their worth is contingent on the level of wealth and power and personal achievement they attain,'' he writes. ''The pursuit of these goals, in turn, depends on high grades in a way it did not for an earlier generation.'' Hence, the oft-heard cry, ''Look, I can't afford a B in this class if I want to get into law school.'' And hence Summers's efforts to crack down on grade inflation at Harvard, where in 2001 about 90 percent of students graduated with honors, compared with 50 percent at Yale that year.
 Patrician Harvard is long gone. The 60's are over, too. As Douthat notes, a Harvard undergraduate weekly founded in the 70's with the title What Is to Be Done?, after Lenin's Bolshevist pamphlet, is now named Fifteen Minutes. ''The change to a Warhol-inspired title says everything about the difference between that generation and mine,'' he observes. The shift may also signal a return to an earlier elite model, only today's elite are the children of the middle class, groomed on SAT prep courses and the right extracurriculars. A Harvard degree today, no less than in Mencken's day, is worth money in this great free Republic. Now, however, the exigencies of the meritocracy require it to come with a high grade point average. 
 Sensitive to economic disparities, Summers has abolished tuition -- $27,448 this academic year, not including room and board, which bring the total to $42,450 -- for students whose families have annual household incomes below $40,000. Yale and Princeton have echoed the move. Bradley, however, sees this as public relations as much as genuine reform, since such families had paid only $1,000 a year before. Yet what about families who earn more than $40,000 a year but still can't pay for their children's education without significant sacrifice? At Harvard and elsewhere, the cost of college is eroding the idea of a liberal arts education in favor of a pre-professional one. Time will tell whether Summers's presidency will hasten that change. 
 In ''Harvard Rules,'' Bradley describes the case of Joe Green, an undergraduate disillusioned by his experience as a student representative on the committee evaluating the Core Curriculum. ''Green kept thinking about a question one of his professors had put to him: 'If you could either go here and get no diploma, or not go here and get the diploma, what would you do?' '' Bradley writes. ''It bothered Green that he couldn't easily answer the question.'' It should bother the president of Harvard, too. The answer, in the end, is the difference between a great university and a brand name.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Page 12 of the Book Review today about Harvard and its current difficulties refers incorrectly to Princeton's financial aid program for students from less affluent families. Beginning in 2001, that university eliminated loans to students who meet criteria for need, substituting grants that need not be repaid. Unlike Harvard, Princeton has not eliminated tuition fees for such students and has not established a specified level of family income to determine eligibility.
An essay in the Book Review on March 27 about Harvard's current difficulties misstated the date of Lawrence H. Summers's appointment as the university's president. It was July 1, 2001, not in October (when his ceremonial installation took place). The essay also misstated the date of a report on curriculum reform at Harvard; it was April 2004, not 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, president of Harvard, on his way to a faculty meeting last month. (Jody Hilton/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); WOMEN (73%); HISTORY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



587 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's New Crisis Could Be Its Worst

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
BIG SLICE has a prescription for the ills facing Detroit's automakers.
 ''They need to step their game up and put their ear to the streets,'' said the bear-sized 32-year-old who lives outside Los Angeles and customizes cars and buses for the rapper and trendsetter Snoop Dogg that include a purple and gold 1967 Pontiac Parisienne signed by several Los Angeles Lakers. ''Go put your ear to the street and ask people what they want instead of trying to force something on people,'' he said. ''They're making ugly cars.''
 Once again, Detroit has resumed its long slide to automotive oblivion, and everyone's getting his two cents in about how to stop the bleeding. One suggestion: Make cars and trucks that people actually want, as opposed to ones that they'll tolerate in their driveway because of a $5,000 rebate or zero percent financing. A century ago the landscape was littered with American automakers. At this point, we're down to two domestic automakers, or three, depending how you count. Since Chrysler became a division of the German automaker DaimlerChrysler in 1998, people in Detroit sometimes call the Big Three the Big Two-and-a-Half. 
 Though Chrysler has shown recent signs of revival, General Motors and Ford are rapidly losing customers at home and their debt is rated one notch above junk by Standard & Poor's. That's bad news for two of the nation's biggest corporate borrowers, because a further downgrade could cost billions of dollars. G.M. is in particularly bad shape. Most believe a significant overhaul is required, including possibly sending another brand like Pontiac or Buick to join Oldsmobile on the chopping block.
 Crises visit at least one Detroit automaker at least once a decade. But this is a different time: The silver bullets have run out. Previously, someone or something came to the rescue. In the 1980's, Chrysler fell back on the government for a bailout and then helped itself by inventing the minivan. In the 1990's, the Big Three rode the sport utility vehicle to the mainstream, and the big rigs helped them skate past lagging reputations and terminally tacky design.
 But there aren't any new magic cars or trucks in the works. And with the Japanese capturing broad swaths of the S.U.V. market and even taking on Detroit's hegemony of pickup trucks, the domestics are hurting in an era when Washington looks increasingly unwilling to backstop American industry.
 Detroit's dependence on trucks also has some analysts worried.
 ''Demand for S.U.V.'s has evidently stalled,'' said Standard & Poor's in a recent report. G.M. is rushing its next generation of big S.U.V.'s like the Chevrolet Suburban into production by year's end, but with increased competition and volatile gas prices, ''it is questionable whether these will generate the profit margins'' of the past, the report said.
 Worse, there used to be just the Japanese and the Europeans to worry about. Now a vigorous Korean competitor, Hyundai, and a Chinese company, Chery, promises to bring the first ultracheap Chinese cars to the United States in two years. Worse still, soaring healthcare costs are a severe competitive disadvantage for American companies with hundreds of thousands of retirees. G.M. spends nearly $2,000 for each car or truck it produces in the United States on health care and pension benefits, more than enough to equip each car with free leather seats.
 Would it be so bad if we all drove cars made by Toyota and Honda and Nissan and Hyundai and BMW? After all, foreign automakers have plants here and domestically assembling many of their vehicles.
 But the Big Three and their suppliers have a much deeper employment impact because more of their parts and cars are still made here and they support so many American retirees. They also provide health care to more than two million Americans, when one includes workers, retirees and family members, or about 0.7 percent of the entire population. G.M. and Ford are Top 10 employers in both Michigan and Ohio and their huge former parts operations, Delphi and Visteon, are themselves among the nation's largest companies. 
 The Big Three's impact is by far the most prevalent in the Midwest, where a domino chain of suppliers is suffocating as the Big Three shrivel, leaving Michigan tied with Mississippi for the second-highest unemployment rate, behind only Alaska. But the domestics also have nearly 20,000 dealers around the country and plants in cities like Chicago, where Ford produces its new Five Hundred sedan, and Arlington, Tex., where G.M. makes the Cadillac Escalade and other big S.U.V.'s.
 To become more competitive, the Big Three are coming with hat in hand to the United Auto Workers union, which recently gave an inch on its legendary health care benefits by agreeing that Chrysler workers who used preferred provider organizations, or P.P.O.'s, would pay the first deductibles levied on Big Three autoworkers. 
 Until now, unionized autoworkers have not had to pay deductibles or monthly premiums for health care. Those sterling benefits have made Big Three jobs some of the most sought after blue-collar work in America, but last week G.M. executives said that era needs to come to a close.
 Critics, executives and analysts say that getting Detroit's finances and benefits in order can only be a first step. More fundamentally, the companies have to give brands clear design identities that are not just marketing images.
 G.M.'s current position is similar to the one Kmart found itself in in recent years, squeezed between the more fashionable Target and the more cut-rate Wal-Mart.
 ''They are neither the lowest cost mass manufacturer nor are they clearly positioned to support brand values to justify consumers paying more just to have one of the G.M. brands in their driveway,'' said Helmut Panke, the chief executive of BMW, in an interview last week. G.M., he added, is ''stuck in the middle.''
 For many analysts, the antidote can be found in what has worked for Detroit. Chrysler has shown signs of revival recently on the back of distinctive cars, like the Chrysler 300 sedan, that match an attempt at a glossier image.
 G.M.'s Cadillac brand has also been a success story.
 ''They clearly have achieved a major turnaround there,'' Mr. Panke said. ''Maybe it's best described by the very coherent, consistent design language, everything they offer, from the cars through the S.U.V.'s in there, but also the focus on the message of, we are back and we are performance and we are the American luxury brand.''
 And what about some of G.M.'s other brands, like Pontiac-Chevrolet-Buick-GMC-Saab-Saturn? ''The rest, if you took off the badges, or the labels, you would have a hard time recognizing who's who, what is what,'' Mr. Panke said.
 This is a common view. John DeLorean, the flamboyant and scandal-prone G.M. executive who briefly ran his own car company in the 1980's and who died last week, was also concerned that Detroit had ''lost touch with the buying public,'' says his nephew, Mark DeLorean. 
 Today's Detroit relies on big rebates to get people to buy cars they aren't ''in love with,'' the younger Mr. DeLorean recalled his uncle saying. ''John's attitude was always, I want people's eyes to light up when they walk through the showroom.''
 Or as Big Slice puts it, ''G.M. is looking too plain, that's what it is, they need some spice and some seasoning.''
 ''They need to come holler at Big Slice,'' he added. ''I'll put 'em back in the game.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The popularity of S.U.V.'s boosted the American automobile industry in the 1990's. Now, Asian companies are making gains. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)Chart: ''Motown Breakdown''Two symptoms of the Big Three's troubles: heavy reliance on customer rebates, and declining market share.CUSTOMER REBATES -- Percentage of 2005 car purchases aided by cash rebates (through March 20):MANUFACTURERS: EUROPEANAVERAGE REBATE: $1,0158%MANUFACTURERS: ASIANAVERAGE REBATE: $1,53737%MANUFACTURERS: AMERICANAVERAGE REBATE: $2,82681%MARKET SHAREDomestic share of U.S. light vehicle market.Figures for individual automakers do not add up to Big 3 total due to rounding.Traditional Big 3: 58%General Motors: 25%Ford: 18%Chrysler Group: 14%Graph tracks domestic share of U.S. light vehicle market since 1990.(Source by Power Information Network)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); RAP MUSIC (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); BAILOUTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



588 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: A New Containment Policy

 BODY:
At an academic conference at Hofstra University the other day, Representative Steve Israel let the audience in on a little-known fact: the cold war was won on Long Island.
 People murmured and nodded, as if to thank him for jogging their memories. We won't quibble -- we suppose that if you leave aside the economic exhaustion and moral bankruptcy of Soviet communism, the strength of the Western Alliance and a four-decade policy of global containment, it's possible to concede that, yeah, Grumman might have had something to do with it.
 But while Mr. Israel's remark, in a panel discussion on the suburbs and homeland security, was grandiose, it did underscore some defensible points: that a robust aerospace and defense industry helps keep the nation secure; that security now embraces protecting the homeland against terrorism; and that it might be a good idea for Long Island, with its educated work force, excellent universities and proximity to New York City, to try to revive its involvement in the military-industrial complex. The days of Grumman churning out high-tech hardware for the war effort and the space race are long over, but Mr. Israel argues, plausibly, that it will only help Long Island to muster wonkish new brigades of scientists and engineers for the post-9/11 campaign. 
 The weak link in this chain of reasoning is housing. The young people who would form the core of this high-tech work force can't afford to live here. Northrop Grumman, which still has about 2,600 employees in Bethpage and elsewhere on Long Island, recently surveyed its engineers and found that nearly 25 percent still lived with their parents. That may say something about young people these days, but it is also a grim reflection of the local real estate market, where $350,000 buys only the tiniest of starter homes. It is hard to be a Long Island homeowner on $60,000 a year, which is about what a Northrop engineer with two to three years' experience makes.
 To ease the problem, Mr. Israel plans to unwrap soon a proposal he calls ''Work Force Housing for Homeland Security,'' an initiative he says will involve high-tech employers like Northrop Grumman and housing lenders like Fannie Mae.
 The title seems to suggest barrels of fresh Congressional pork -- the story of homeland security spending in the last four years has been one of a shameless scramble for federal funds to meet implausible threats far from New York City and Washington. But the work force housing part of it, actually, sounds better than that -- a proposal that yokes corporate self-interest to a common good. Philip A. Teel, the top Northrop Grumman executive on Long Island, described it as a plan that would allow company employees a leg up on home buying through reduced down payments and financial breaks on mortgage insurance and closing costs. He said it was of a piece with the company's continuing efforts to attract and keep highly qualified employees.
 ''Work force housing'' is one of many euphemisms used to avoid setting off Nimby alarms -- to send the message to Long Islanders that less-expensive housing helps not only the poor, but also the bright young people living in their attics and basements. That is a fine message to send, because it happens to be true. By so closely linking housing solutions on Long Island to its economic fortunes, Mr. Israel is onto something. So is the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, who wants to use employee-assistance tactics similar to Northrop Grumman's in developing housing on a huge county-owned parcel in Yaphank. The main idea is that Long Island needs aggressive and creative new ways to lower the cost of housing -- workplace, affordable, whatever -- for all its residents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); TERRORISM (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



589 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Opinions for Sale: Musings on Wal-Mart

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your reporter calls the plan for three Wal-Marts in Deptford a ''seeming incongruity'' (''Wal-Mart Wants Three of Those,'' March 20). Sadly, it's consistent with Wal-Mart's expansion across the country. 
 Research by Dr. Kenneth Stone of Iowa State University and others who study Wal-Mart's economic impact on communities reveals a pattern. Wal-Mart enters a particular market, overwhelms competitors and provides a short-lived boom for certain noncompeting retailers nearby. After three to five years, competition has been thinned out. Downtown shopping districts or older malls have been reduced to a shadow of what they were. At 5 to 10 years after Wal-Mart first appears, growth levels off and even recedes. Then, Wal-Mart itself moves on. 
 Wal-Mart's siting strategy in New Jersey makes you wonder about sustainability, too. No one seriously believes that three Wal-Marts could survive in Deptford. So municipal officials need to ask: Is it wise to risk our existing retail businesses for a ''big box'' that may last only a few years?

Lucye Millerand
Highland Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



590 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Opinions for Sale: Musings on Wal-Mart

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 There are some points that I would like to clarify on your Wal-Mart article. Since joining the New Jersey community in 1991, we've created more than 12,000 jobs that pay competitively, averaging $10.11 an hour -- which is substantially higher than the state's proposed minimum wage of $7.15. We also offer benefits, including health insurance, for all employees. In 2004, Wal-Mart spent more than $6.7 billion for merchandise and services with 1,092 New Jersey-based suppliers. As a result, we're supporting 71,216 supplier jobs across the state. Last year, we also contributed more than $1.9 million to local charitable organizations, and backed local communities with more than $19 million in state and local taxes, including property taxes that help finance public schools.
 Drive by any Wal-Mart store and count the wide variety of businesses thriving nearby. Studies show that new businesses -- including many that are locally owned -- spring up and flourish near our stores. Wal-Mart is committed to being a good neighbor, providing consumers choices of quality goods at low prices and a force for positive economic growth.

Mia T. Masten

Ms. Masten is Wal-Mart's director of corporate affairs/Eastern region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); CHARITIES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (56%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



591 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Warning on Inflation Weighs on Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers said last week that price pressures had risen recently, sending an inflation tremor through the stock and bond markets.
 The central bank also raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 2.75 percent, the seventh quarter-point increase since June. 
After four of those rate moves, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for the week; the index's decline last week was the third after a rate increase.
 All three main market gauges fell in the holiday-shortened week. The Nasdaq composite index dropped below 2,000 for the first time since Nov. 2. Energy stocks -- like Exxon Mobil, which fell 5.8 percent -- led the decline, followed by financial stocks. The American International Group, the insurance company, slid 6.9 percent after questions about certain financial transactions. 
 For the week, the S.& P. 500 was down 18.23 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,171.42; it is off 3.3 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 186.80 points, or 1.8 percent, to 10,442.87, and is down 3.2 percent for the year. The Nasdaq dropped 16.73 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,991.06, and is now down 8.5 percent for the year. The 10-year Treasury yield rose to 4.60 percent from 4.51 percent a week earlier. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Ask JeevesNNM: ASKJIAC/InterActiveCorp, the Internet company led by Barry Diller, said it had agreed to buy the online search engine for $1.9 billion. Mr. Diller's company also owns Expedia, Match.com, Ticketmaster and CitySearch.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $26.95WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.18%EST. '04 P/E: 19.43Darden RestaurantsNYSE: DRIThe operator of the Red Lobster and Olive Garden chains reported strong quarterly profits as its sales rose 11 percent, to $1.38 billion. The company also raised its forecasts for the fiscal year.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $30.00WEEK'S CHANGE +10.95%EST. '04 P/E: 17.28OracleNNM: ORCLThe software company reported that its revenue rose 18 percent in the third quarter, but said profit fell 15 percent as it followed through on its $10.3 billion takeover of the PeopleSoft Corporation.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $12.40WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.12%EST. '04 P/E: 19.25OnyxNNM: ONXXA drug developed by Onyx and Bayer delayed the worsening of kidney cancer in a late-stage trial, the companies said, adding that they would file for approval to get the product on the market in the United States next year.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $33.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.74%EST. '04 P/E --Union PacificNYSE: UNPThe operator of the nation's largest railroad raised its earnings estimate for the first quarter, citing unexpectedly strong revenue growth and a quick recovery from West Coast storms.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $68.97WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.89%EST. '04 P/E: 21.29AlcoaNYSE: AAThe aluminum maker said that it would cut 2,000 jobs over the next year as it streamlines operations. Alcoa also said that it was selling its minority stake in a Norwegian metals and energy group for about $870 million.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $30.36WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.17%EST. '04 P/E: 14.74Sears, RoebuckNYSE: SShareholders of Kmart and Sears, Roebuck approved Kmart's $12.3 billion takeover of the department store chain. The combined company, the Sears Holdings Corporation, will begin trading tomorrow on the Nasdaq.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $50.04WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.13%EST. '04 P/E: 23.50GameStopNYSE: GMEThe video game retailer reported lower quarterly profit from a year earlier because of an accounting charge, but said that its sales had grown. It also projected a first-quarter profit that would top Wall Street's expectations.THURSDAY'S CLOSE: $22.55WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.28%EST. '04 P/E: 16.51(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



592 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Lo! A White Knight! So Why Isn't the Market Cheering?

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IS it a curse for a company to have a superstar C.E.O.? 
 Investors are often thrilled when well-known outsiders come in as white knights to run a company. But a growing body of evidence suggests that a company will perform better over the long run when it is led by a relatively anonymous insider.
 The pros and cons of corporate white knights have been the subject of much debate in a time when several high-profile chief executives have been replaced by lesser-known insiders. This month, for example, Martin J. Sullivan succeeded Maurice R. Greenberg at the American International Group, and Disney's board chose Robert A. Iger to succeed Michael D. Eisner. Both Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Iger had been chief operating officers of their companies. 
 Measuring leadership, of course, is notoriously difficult. Even more complicated is determining what part of a company's performance should be credited to its chief executive. But several studies have overcome at least some of these problems, and they challenge the notion that white knights make good C.E.O.'s .
 Perhaps the best-known study was conducted by Jim Collins and described in his book, ''Good to Great,'' published in 2001. Mr. Collins leads a research firm that studies organizational dynamics; he previously was a lecturer at Stanford's Graduate School of Business. His research found that the best-performing companies rarely appointed well-known outsiders as their chief executives.
 Mr. Collins's research focused on companies in the Fortune 500 whose shares at some point since the early 1960's transformed from merely good performers into great ones. ''Merely good'' was defined as more or less matching the market's return over a long period, while greatness was defined as beating the market by at least a 3-to-1 margin over a subsequent period lasting at least 15 years. 
 Trying to isolate the factors that led to the transformation of these companies, Mr. Collins paired each with another company that had parallel good performance but never made the jump to great performance. 
 Mr. Collins found that the companies that did not transform themselves were far more likely to appoint white knights as their chief executives. Specifically, he found that more than two-thirds of such companies ''tried the outside savior model, and it didn't work,'' since these companies failed to become great. By contrast, the chief executives of more than 90 percent of the good-to-great companies were promoted from within and were largely anonymous to the outside world.
 Mr. Collins concluded from this evidence that ''bringing in a white knight to be C.E.O. is a recipe for mediocrity.'' 
 A more recent study helps to show why. The study, called ''Governance and C.E.O. Turnover,'' was conducted by Ray Fisman and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, associate professors of economics and finance at Columbia Business School, and Rakesh Khurana, an associate professor of organizational behavior at Harvard Business School. Their study has been circulating since last summer as an academic working paper; a version is at http://ssrn.com/abstract=656085.
 Though the professors did not focus specifically on superstar or white-knight chief executives, they did study the pressures that sometimes lead companies' boards to hire them. Specifically, they were interested in the circumstances in which a board could resist shareholder demands to fire the chief because of disappointing performance. 
 Sometimes, of course, the pressure to dismiss the chief executive is justified. In other cases, the poor performance is not the chief's fault, and the calls to fire him come primarily from those who want to engineer a quick turnaround in the stock price by scapegoating him and replacing him with a white knight. If that is the case, a board may well be promoting the company's long-term health if it resists that pressure.
 The professors studied the firings of chief executives among 750 of the country's largest corporations from 1980 to 1996. The research separated the companies into two groups, according to whether their bylaws made it relatively easy or hard to resist shareholder pressure. (In one group were companies whose bylaws contained 11 or more of two dozen commonly used provisions for such resistance; in the other group were those whose bylaws had 10 or fewer.) An example of such a provision is the so-called staggered board, in which the terms of only a small number of directors end in any given year. That makes it more difficult for an outsider to gain board control and force the chief executive's dismissal.
 Among the group that was less able to resist pressures, operating performance -- the percentage of total assets represented by earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation -- did not improve, on average, over the three years after the chief was fired. In the other group, by contrast, average operating performance grew more than 11 percent over that time. (The professors focused on operating performance rather than stock returns because they believe that over three-year periods, as opposed to the longer term, stock prices are affected by many factors for which the chief executive deserves neither credit nor blame.)
 IN finding that it is sometimes beneficial for boards to resist shareholders, the professors acknowledge that their study runs counter to the belief in the corporate governance world that restrictions on shareholder sovereignty are undemocratic and undesirable. But in their paper, the professors say their research has convinced them that when many boards fire C.E.O.'s, they are ''caving in'' to shareholders to ''simply respond to their whims,'' instead of promoting their long-term best interests.
 From this study and other research, Professor Khurana concludes that when companies hire superstars, the result ''more often than not is disappointment or even disaster.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Showing Resistance''Companies whose bylaws make it hard for their boards to resist shareholder demands typically show no improvement in operating performance -- a measure of earnings -- after firing their chief executives.Graph tracks average operating performance of companies 1-3 years before and 1-3 years after the companies fired their C.E.O.'s.(From a study of 750 of the largest U.S. companies, 1980-96)The following are tracked in percentages:Companies most able to resist shareholder pressure to fire C.E.O.Companies least able to resist shareholder pressure to fire C.E.O.(Source by Ray Fisman, Matthew Rhodes-Kropf and Rakesh Khurana)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); DIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%)

PERSON: MARTIN J SULLIVAN (73%); ROBERT A IGER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



593 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2330 words

HEADLINE: They're In on the Joke

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
THE pitch took five minutes. And it went something like this: ''Will'' (that would be Will Ferrell) ''is the driver.'' (That would be a Nascar driver.) ''His whole thing is: I wanna go faster.'' Does it sound funny yet? Does it matter? Adam McKay, a former head writer for ''Saturday Night Live,'' was doing the pitching. The studios, in competition, were doing the catching. In the end, Sony Pictures agreed last June to pay Mr. Ferrell $20 million to act in the then-unwritten film ''Talladega Nights,'' with a green light almost certain if Mr. McKay, the director, and Judd Apatow, the producer, could keep their budget in the area of $70 million. 
 It helped that the principals had certain things in common. They'd worked together on last year's ''Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy,'' for instance. And they were all clients of both the United Talent Agency and a pair of powerhouse managers, Mosaic Media Group's Eric Gold and Jimmy Miller, making them key members of a very select group.
 Ever since Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi hit Hollywood 30 years ago, screen comedy has been something of a circle game. For protection, inspiration or just plain fun, Hollywood's comic talent has tended to cluster and take care of its own. But never, perhaps, has the circle been tighter, or the financial stakes higher, than now. 
 Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Apatow and Ben Stiller are among the club's kingpins. Mr. McKay, Owen Wilson, Jim Carrey, Vince Vaughn and Jack Black belong, as do Nick Stevens, a United Talent agent who represents Mr. Carrey and Mr. Stiller, and Mr. Gold and Mr. Miller, who have much of the group in their stable.
 The funnymen appear in one another's movies, from ''Dodgeball'' to ''Anchorman'' to ''Elf'' to ''Zoolander,'' creating a wheel-of-comedy effect that can leave viewers wondering just whose movie they're watching. What's more, the stars and their representatives live, work and play in a continuum that has virtually shut the studios out of the development process. By coming up with their own concepts, finding screenwriters and then offering the whole package for production -- script, director and cast, take it or leave it -- this group is reshaping screen humor to their liking.
 ''What interests me most about this group is they all participate in readings of each other's scripts, without the studios present,'' said Stuart Cornfeld, Mr. Stiller's producing partner in their company Red Hour Films. He cited a recent reading of ''Tropic Thunder,'' Mr. Stiller's new project for DreamWorks, at which Mr. Apatow took notes, and Mos Def and the British actor Steve Coogan -- recent additions to the in-crowd -- read various roles.
 Studio executives are well aware of the power in such cohesion. ''They seem to function somewhat as an informal kind of comedy troupe,'' said Hutch Parker, president of 20th Century Fox. ''If you check around town and see what projects they all have in development, you find the same alliances.''
 In fact, the interaction has spawned a new brand of comedy that steps beyond the consciously dumb gross-out humor of the last decade, when the filmmakers Peter and Bobby Farrelly ruled the roost with pictures like ''Dumb and Dumber'' and ''There's Something About Mary.'' Next-generation humor is ''smart-dumb comedy, as opposed to dumb-dumb comedy or smart-clever comedy,'' Mr. Cornfeld said. The humor is often character-based and owes a lot of its knowing silliness -- think of Mr. Ferrell as an oversized Santa's helper, or Mr. Stiller as a vapid runway model -- to ''Saturday Night Live.'' 
 ''We are all the spawn of Hal Ramis,'' Mr. Apatow said, referring to the director or co-writer of the last generation's touchstone comedies, like ''Animal House'' and ''Meatballs.'' ''We all grew up on 'Stripes' and 'Caddyshack' and 'Animal House.' We're heavily influenced by Second City and Albert Brooks. As a result, a lot of us have similar sensibilities.'' 
 One such ''smart-dumb comedy'' was in its birth throes recently, as Mr. Apatow and Steve Carell, another ''Anchorman'' veteran, found themselves, scripts in hand, sitting at a table in Santa Monica with a few other actors, exchanging stories of their early sexual exploits. What started as a read-through of Universal Pictures' ''40-Year-Old Virgin,'' set for an August release, had quickly devolved into a discussion of how the central character -- Mr. Carell as an electronics store clerk -- happened to still be a sexual naif. 
 The cast tossed out situations that might have led to his giving up on sex. Paul Rudd suggested a problem of premature ejaculation. But Mr. Apatow, one of the film's producers, was still thinking. ''This one guy told Garry Shandling he lost his virginity to two women,'' he mused. 
 ''That's a good story,'' Mr. Carell said. 
 Mr. Apatow told of an eighth-grade experience when he panicked after his girlfriend guided his hand beyond first base. ''In my head I thought, 'Oh my God, I'm going to pee on her,''' he recalled, to general laughter around the table. ''I literally stayed in the shower until she was gone.'' 
 Romany Malco, a cast member, cheerily told of being seduced by the family baby sitter when he was 6, then by a string of sitters for years after. (No one said comedy doesn't hurt.) Mr. Malco, who served in the military, also told a raunchy tale from the barracks involving masturbation and killing roaches.
 Mr. Apatow slapped the table. ''That's going in,'' he said, grabbing a pen. 
 The concept for this movie came from Mr. Carell, who had riffed on the idea years ago during improvisations in Chicago at Second City, the comedy troupe where he got his start. During down time on ''Anchorman,'' he tossed out the idea to Mr. Apatow, whom he had met on the set, and they sold it as a pitch to Universal. ''The 40-Year Old Virgin,'' which they wrote together and which Mr. Apatow directed with Mr. Carell starring, just wrapped. This has become a fairly normal scenario for a group that has become accustomed to hearing the word ''yes'' from executives who are willing to rely on the comics' instincts and track record. 
 Similar telegraphy was behind more than one film that has hit the screen. Mr. Stiller had only to call his agent, Mr. Stevens, and say, ''I have five words for you: Owen Wilson. Starsky and Hutch.'' Mr. Stevens got it. Within days he had sold the idea to Warner Brothers, which owned the title but was doing nothing with it, and eventually landed a budget of $60 million.
 In the next several months, a new wave of films from the group will include New Line Cinema's ''The Wedding Crashers,'' the summer's most buzzed-about comedy, starring Mr. Vaughn and Mr. Wilson as overgrown bachelors who prey on women at weddings, and Universal's ''Kicking and Screaming,'' with Mr. Ferrell as a demented soccer dad. Then there's ''Bewitched,'' an update of the television series with Mr. Ferrell and Nicole Kidman, and later in the year comes ''Fun With Dick and Jane,'' with Mr. Carrey and Tea Leoni as a married couple who turn to robbery, both films for Sony Pictures. 
 Audiences are likely to sense the connections among these films, if only because everybody on the circuit lends a bit of screen time to everyone else. Mr. Ferrell, for instance, did a cameo in ''The Wedding Crashers.'' That's partly because Mr. Vaughn did a cameo in Mr. Ferrell's last picture, ''Anchorman.'' For that matter, so did Mr. Stiller (as Arturo Mendes) and Mr. Black (as the Angry Biker).
 The camaraderie owes much to connections that go back many years, sometimes decades, to shared experience in the grimy comedy clubs of Lower Manhattan and Los Angeles. It extended to ''Saturday Night Live'' circa the 1990's; the innovative Wayans brothers' show, ''In Living Color''; and the ratings-challenged ''Ben Stiller Show,'' canceled in 1993 after one season on Fox. 
 ''Everybody hung out more together when we were unemployed,'' Mr. Apatow said. Actually, that much of the group became not just employed but also richly compensated owes much to the influential management company run by Mr. Gold, 48, and Mr. Miller, 47. The managers, who rarely talk to the media, are both from Pittsburgh and met during their college years. At the time, both were dabbling in comedy, though it was Mr. Miller's older brother, Dennis, now a talk-show host, who was the rising star of their group. Jimmy Miller spent 13 years as a manager in comedy clubs, from 1981 to 1994, five or six nights a week in the back of the room, first in Pittsburgh, then in Hermosa Beach, Calif. Mr. Gold was a stand-up comedian before moving to Los Angeles to become an agent, then a manager. 
 Their practical experience in the clubs became invaluable. Mr. Apatow, a friend, became a client. Tipped by him, Mr. Miller booked Mr. Carrey into his Hermosa Beach club and gradually started booking him into clubs on the road, long before the comic made his mark in the movies. 
 ''It's really a small business, still, the comedy business,'' Mr. Miller said during a recent interview in his conference room on Sunset Boulevard. Contemporary comedy, even as it evolves, still owes its essence to ''Saturday Night Live,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gold agreed: ''It's 30 years old as we know it. It hasn't gotten so big that the people involved don't know each other. We all know each other.''
 Today, the managers do much more than just represent Mr. Carrey, Mr. Apatow, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Vaughn, the Wayans and many others. They actively edit and shape their clients' ideas; the stars implicitly trust their comedy judgment. 
 Which means Mr. Gold and Mr. Miller can keep people out of the ''wheel of comedy'' too. One film executive complained that the young comedy club is exclusionary and not always in a good way. ''There's always a wall being put up with those guys,'' he said, declining to be identified for fear of jeopardizing future relations with the group. 
 During the making of ''Elf,'' Mr. Miller and Mr. Ferrell differed with the editing choices of the director, Jon Favreau, executives close to the production said. Both versions were tested with audiences, but the creative differences led to Mr. Favreau's not being involved in the sequel at New Line, executives in both camps said. Though Mr. Favreau's choices tested better with an audience and won out, he is considered creatively out of sync with Mr. Miller and Mr. Ferrell, and New Line has confirmed that he will not be part of the sequel.
 Mr. Apatow came from New York and worked as a stand-up comic at the Improv in Hollywood. That's where he met Adam Sandler, who became his roommate but who today appears to remain outside the club, in an orbit of his own. Mr. Apatow met Mr. Stiller standing in line at an Elvis Costello concert. ''Within two weeks we were friends,'' he recalled. Together, they wrote a sketch show for MTV, then wrote and produced the critically adored but doomed ''Ben Stiller Show.'' Mr. Apatow, who once opened in comedy clubs for Mr. Carrey, also produced ''The Cable Guy,'' which starred Mr. Carrey and was directed by Mr. Stiller, in 1996. 
 Mr. Stiller further expanded the group when he became a fan of Mr. Wilson after seeing him in ''Bottle Rocket'' and called up the actor to propose collaborating. He had given Mr. Black a role in ''The Cable Guy,'' and used both Mr. Wilson and Mr. Ferrell in ''Zoolander.''
 Some executives say they are happy to be schooled by the collective, with its accumulated comic lore. ''What these guys do, and what makes them exciting, is they're very cutting edge,'' said Adam Goodman, the president of production at DreamWorks. ''These guys are teaching us what comedy is, and where comedy's going. We're simply following their lead here.'' 
 Though Hollywood may be following now, the studios were initially slow to catch on. The pitch for ''Anchorman'' was rejected by the DreamWorks production chief, Walter F. Parkes, who told his executives after the meeting that Mr. Ferrell was no star, more than one person present says. He changed his mind after ''Old School'' became a hit. Asked about his decision, Mr. Parkes said: ''We weren't ready to go forward with a green light with that picture, with that cast, at that moment. It had to do with concerns about the concept of the film, not the star. We were the ones who cast Will in 'Old School' in the first place.''
 Similarly, DreamWorks, MGM and other studios passed on ''Dodgeball.'' Fox finally agreed after Mr. Stiller reduced his fee to well under $1 million, a fraction of his usual price. The film has so far taken in $114 million domestically and cost $23 million to make.
 Indeed, part of the appeal of these films has been their low production cost and their huge return at the box office. But that formula is quickly disappearing as the success of the young comedy-makers is forcing the studios to engage in bidding wars. 
 And some worry that a comic oligopoly is inevitably raising the cost of doing business with stars like Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Black and lately Mr. Vaughn. After all, Mr. Carrey already costs upwards of $20 million, and Mr. Ferrell is hovering in that neighborhood. In January, Mr. Stevens and Mr. Gold held an auction among the studios for Mr. Vaughn's latest project, a romantic comedy. The script for the film, ''The Breakup,'' sold for $2.25 million, and Mr. Vaughn received his highest payday ever, $12 million, to star and produce. 
 ''Smart guys like Eric Gold and Jimmy Miller are figuring, 'Let's put our own stuff together, go out in a competitive way, and the studio that wants it the most will pay the most and give us the most creative autonomy,'' said New Line's president of production, Toby Emmerich, who has found himself on the losing end of a couple of recent bidding wars from the Gold-Miller workshop. 
 For Mr. Emmerich, the trick is not to get into the club but to get ahead of it: ''Right now I'd say those guys are worth their weight in gold for comedy. But for us, the bigger challenge is to figure out: Who's the next guy?'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about a powerful group of actors, writers, directors and agents who often collaborate on film comedies included one member incorrectly in a list of clients of the United Talent Agency. Adam McKay is represented by the Endeavor Agency.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Insiders who are taking comedy back from the studios: From left, Ben Stiller, Judd Apatow, Vince Vaughn, Will Ferrell and Owen Wilson. (Photos by Stiller: Associated Press
Apatow: Frank Masi/DreamWorks
Vaughn: Scott Gries/Getty Images
Ferrell and Wilson: Evan Agostini/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
Another ''Cable Guy'' alumnus is Jim Carrey, who shares a talent agent with Mr. Stiller. (Photo by Mark Mainz/Getty Images)
 Jack Black in Cannes last year. His credits include ''The Cable Guy,'' directed by Ben Stiller. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); TALENT AGENTS (89%); NASCAR RACING (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED TALENT AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (90%); VINCE VAUGHN (74%); JIM CARREY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



594 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: You're Hired

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: BEDMINSTER 

 BODY:
WITH a picture of his teenage daughter, Lauren, perched over his right shoulder, Ashley Cooper recounted his fleeting few seconds of fame as a boardroom guest on Donald Trump's hit show, ''The Apprentice.''
 The episode showed Mr. Cooper striking a blow for feminism as he criticized a male contestant for describing a female team member as a ''22-year-old girl.'' Neither the reference to her age nor to her gender was intended as a compliment.
 You do not say such things to the father of an 18-year-old college freshman. At least not in Donald Trump's boardroom -- or, apparently, on the golf course that Mr. Cooper runs, Trump National Golf Club in this bucolic corner of Somerset County. In this particular episode of ''The Apprentice,'' a camera caught Mr. Cooper wincing as he heard the young man's remark. Later, he said, ''This 22-year-old girl comment is killing me.'' (The offender, however, was not fired in that episode.) 
 A week after his television debut, Mr. Cooper reflected on his five minutes of fame -- sitting in for one of the regular Trump advisers, George Ross -- as he showed off his office in a fine old Colonial home not far from the practice range of the Trump course. 
 ''After the show ran, I heard from people I hadn't seen in 30 years,'' he said with undisguised disbelief.
 Mr. Cooper, a 44-year-old Summit resident who is married with three children, is not accustomed to the spotlight. Yet as chairman of Trump National in Bedminster and a managing partner of Mr. Trump's new golf company, Trump Golf Management, LLC, Mr. Cooper is becoming well-known in golf circles.
 (Not that he didn't know his way around a golf course already. As he put it: ''I did belong and still belong to three golf clubs other than Trump before taking over -- Canoe Brook in Summit, Lake Mohawk Country Club in Sparta and The Promontory Ranch Club in Park City, Utah. Unfortunately I play almost no golf at those three clubs anymore. When I do play, it is mostly at one of our four Trump courses, which is obviously a wonderful experience.'') 
 But a celebrity? He chuckled, and mentioned that his name had shown up on Page Six in the New York Post shortly after his television appearance. 
 Other people -- not to mention his publicity-starved boss, Mr. Trump -- might have welcomed the dose of boldface ink, but Mr. Cooper seemed mortified. ''I said something to Donald about it, and he said, 'Welcome to my world,''' Mr. Cooper said with a laugh.
 A North Carolina native whose disposition is far sunnier than the somber presence he gave off on ''The Apprentice,'' Mr. Cooper is much more at home talking about the golf course, with good reason. Situated on the former estate of John Z. DeLorean -- whose stainless-steel, gull-wing car brought him fame and then bankruptcy -- Trump National lives up to Mr. Trump's boast that it is ''the hottest course in the country.''
 ''What Ashley had done is amazing,'' Mr. Trump said. ''There is no other product like it in the country, and Ashley has done it with style and grace.''
 An intimidating 7,556 yards from its tournament tees (although most members will play from tees that shorten the course by at least 900 yards), the course was designed by the legendary architect Tom Fazio. Even in late winter, with snow stubbornly clinging to the rolling fairways, the views of Somerset County's horse country are spectacular. 
 Visible in the hills surrounding the course are the homes of New Jersey's rich and famous, including Woody Johnson, the pharmaceutical heir and owner of the New York Jets. Indeed, Mr. Johnson is among a few hundred members who paid $175,000 to join the club.
 Still under construction are the club's spa, tennis courts and pools. In fact, after Mr. Cooper escorted a visitor around the club, he was off to New York for a meeting with Mr. Trump to discuss neither great capital transactions nor fabulous acquisitions, but tiles for the club's pool. ''Donald is involved in every detail,'' Mr. Cooper said. 
 Mr. Cooper has actually been associated with the property longer than his boss has. In 1999, Mr. Cooper was one of several partners who bought the estate of Mr. DeLorean -- who died March 19 -- with plans to build a golf course and residences on the site. 
 An accomplished golfer himself -- he admitted to a handicap of about seven -- Mr. Cooper figured he was about to embark on a dream come true. After more than 15 years on Wall Street, Mr. Cooper, who played basketball and tennis at Ripon College in Wisconsin -- where he moved to in the sixth grade -- was going to get a chance to combine his love of sports with business. 
 But things did not go according to plan. First, problems developed in obtaining the necessary permits. Then came the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, and the economy tightened. 
 With that, Mr. Cooper and his partners started looking for another partner. ''Then one day in 2002 we got a call out of nowhere from Donald Trump's office,'' Mr. Cooper said. 
 It turned out that Mr. Trump -- himself a five-handicap golfer -- had been interested in the 505-acre property. Within six weeks, a new partnership was born, and the project began in earnest. The course was completed ahead of schedule, as Mr. Trump was happy to point out, so play began last fall. The official opening is scheduled for this spring, the precise date depending on things even Mr. Trump can not control, like the weather.
 Trump National at Bedminster is one of four Trump-owned courses in the United States, including one in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. But it is the New Jersey club that seems to claim a special piece of Mr. Trump's heart. He is already talking about building a second course on the property, rather than put up 14 homes included in the original site plans. 
 And, in a sort of unsurprising piece of Trumpian cross-promotion, the winning team on the episode of ''The Apprentice'' that featured Mr. Cooper won a round of golf in Bedminster.
 Mr. Cooper and his fellow managing partner at Mr. Trump's golf company, Carolyn Kepcher (a regular on ''The Apprentice'') have their sights set on bringing slightly more accomplished golfers to Somerset County. They hope one day that the United States Golf Association -- less than a mile away in Far Hills -- will designate the course for a United States Open. Or perhaps the Professional Golfers Association will hold its annual championship there. (This year's P.G.A. Championship, one of four major tournaments in the world of men's golf, will be held at the Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield in early August.)
 Because both the U.S.G.A. and the P.G.A. designate the sites for their championships well in advance, it will be more than a few years before the world's best golfers convene in Bedminster. But in the eyes of Mr. Cooper and his boss, the potential for a world-class test of golf is there.
 For now, Mr. Cooper is preparing for the course's first full season and tending to his new duties as Ms. Kepcher's partner in Trump Golf Management. He is in charge of strategic planning and marketing, while Ms. Kepcher runs day-to-day operations and budgets.
 Whether Mr. Cooper teams with Ms. Kepcher and Mr. Trump again on camera remains to be seen. 
 If so, those 20-something males had better watch their language.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ashley Cooper, chief executive of Trump National in Bedminster, above, helped Donald Trump, left, and Carolyn Kepcher on ''The Apprentice.'' (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mark Burnett Productions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOLF (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); CHILDREN (70%); SPORTS BUSINESS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005



595 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Sell? No, We'll Wait, One Start-Up Says

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
In the post-dot-com boom era, the mind-set among many, if not most, Silicon Valley entrepreneurs is to position a start-up company for a quick and lucrative sale to an industry giant rather than wait for the uncertain payout of an initial public offering. 
 Keerti Melkote, however, rejected that strategy -- and has grown accustomed to people asking if he has lost his mind.
 Mr. Melkote, a founder of a three-year-old start-up called Aruba Networks, which sells wireless networks to corporate customers, says he recognizes that he and his partners might have turned away a once-in-a-lifetime chance at instant riches when executives from Cisco Systems, the largest maker of Internet networking equipment, came knocking last November. Cisco wanted to talk about acquiring Aruba, which has its offices here. 
 ''We basically told them, 'There's not a number you can come up with that will be attractive enough to convince us to sell,''' said Don LeBeau, Aruba's chief executive, who had served as a senior vice president at Cisco in the 1990's. 
 In January, Cisco announced that it had paid $450 million to purchase Airespace Inc., Aruba's main rival in the market to build and manage wireless networks inside corporate offices.
 The $450 million ''is a decent payday -- it's nothing to sneeze at,'' said Mr. Melkote, who oversees product development and marketing.
 ''But,'' he added, ''that's where you need to have the conviction that your product is better, the market is there, our team has the ability to execute.'' 
 That kind of confidence is much less evident in Silicon Valley now than it was five years ago.
 The bursting of the dot-com bubble humbled all but the most big-headed entrepreneurs. And the stock markets, while hungry for high-growth companies, now demand that most start-ups show some profits or other measures of success before going public. 
 ''For the average company in Silicon Valley, the strategy is to be bought rather than go public,'' said Paul F. Deninger, an investment banker and chairman of Broadview International, who advises start-ups on both initial public offerings and acquisitions.
 The passage in 2002 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the corporate reform law, has also trimmed back expectations, said Michael J. Sullivan, a lawyer in San Francisco who advises start-up companies. Under that law, chief executives and chief financial officers are personally responsible for their companies' financial statements. 
 ''In the past, the dream of every young company was to go public,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''Today, with Sarbanes-Oxley, going public means as many problems for a young company as it does glory. The trend is that fewer companies are going public and more are choosing acquisition as an exit strategy.''
 Still, for some brave -- or perhaps foolish -- souls, the gamble for the initial public offering is irresistible. ''For the extraordinary company, the I.P.O. is still a very real possibility and the rewards are huge,'' Mr. Deninger said.
 Aruba's executives and venture capital investors are clearly eager to take that risk, Mr. LeBeau said. 
 They were unanimous in deciding to politely brush off Cisco's interest -- though the company's 170 employees, many of whom have not enjoyed the past financial rewards of those running the company, were less certain. 
 ''We believe that a truly big payout will come in the form of an I.P.O., or an acquisition once we've gone public and established a marketplace,'' Mr. LeBeau said.
 Aruba's connection with Cisco goes beyond an acquisition interest. In addition to Mr. LeBeau, the three founders -- Mr. Melkote, Merwyn Andrade and Pankaj Manglik, who has already left the company to found another start-up -- were all former Cisco employees. Mr. Melkote and Mr. Andrade worked together there to design switching equipment. Mr. Melkote left in 1997 to work with friends at another start-up and Mr. Andrade left in 2002 to help found Aruba. 
 Aruba is one of several companies, including Airespace and Symbol Technologies, that are developing less expensive, more secure wireless Internet networks, called local area networks or LAN's, that allow businesses to transform an office building into one giant wireless hot spot, all managed by a central computer. Aruba's greatest advantage over its competitors, some industry analysts say, is that it offers the most secure wireless systems.
 ''The centralized wireless LAN represents a great architectural leap forward,'' said Craig Mathias, president of the Farpoint Group, an industry consulting firm in Ashland, Mass. It also represents a market that Cisco has been eyeing for at least two years. 
 Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., first approached Aruba in early 2003, when it had just started selling its wireless systems. Leading the Cisco team was Dan Scheinman, the executive charged with keeping tabs on new rivals that might present a competitive challenge or an acquisition opportunity. 
 ''We wanted to see what was there, and whether or not there was a real market and something interesting for us,'' Mr. Scheinman said. As he tells it, the two sides talked, but did not go further because he was not persuaded there was a large enough market for Cisco to exploit. ''Obviously I was wrong about that,'' he said. 
 With the Airespace acquisition, Cisco intends to extend its domination over the networking market to include the world's leading wireless LAN offering. According to Mr. Melkote, the meeting may have given the Cisco team precisely what it wanted. 
 ''We were a little naive,'' said Mr. Melkote, who was 33 at the time. ''We gave them our product to examine so they could see it was real.'' He shook his head and laughed at his own foolhardiness. ''Cisco came out with a centralized wireless product around a year later that looked remarkably like our product,'' he said. 
 Mr. Scheinman objected to that suggestion as an unfair ''attack on our integrity.'' 
 David Callisch, Aruba's communications director, said that the episode spoke more to the company's inexperience than to the actions of an aggressive foe. ''Our founding team was very young and very enamored with all the attention they were getting from the likes of Cisco,'' he said. Later that year, Aruba hired Mr. LeBeau to run the company.
 That Cisco tried to initiate talks again late last year was surprising, said Mr. LeBeau. It posed the question, he said, of why the company felt compelled to ''spend $450 million to acquire what they've been trying to build.'' 
 Mr. LeBeau is convinced that Airespace was Cisco's second choice, and he even says that one of his former Cisco buddies told him so. But Mr. Scheinman said Cisco had been in talks with Airespace since last August, before the company reached out to Aruba a second time. 
 For Aruba's top executives, the disadvantages of life as a small unit of Cisco -- constantly battling for resources and attention -- outweighed the advantages of Cisco's brand and marketing muscle.
 ''I saw that it would have been impossible for us to fulfill our dream inside of Cisco,'' said Mr. Andrade, Aruba's chief technology officer. ''I feel we're really on the cusp of this taking off, but know from my experiences inside Cisco how difficult it would have been to innovate.'' 
 Aruba's goal is not to beat Cisco so much as to carve out a sizable share of the corporate market for wireless networks, a market that Mr. Melkote estimates will be worth more than $10 billion in the next five years. 
 ''Even if it's only a $5 billion market, and even if we only get a 20 to 40 percent share of that, we can go public on that,'' Mr. Melkote said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Merwyn Andrade, Keerti Melkote and Don LeBeau of Aruba Networks have all worked at the rival company that tried to buy theirs, Cisco.
 Kevin Huey, a network engineer, runs a test of the type of wireless systems Aruba sells to businesses. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (75%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%); ARUBA NETWORKS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Aruba Wireless Networks; Cisco Systems; Airespace Inc

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%); ARUN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



596 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Being Courted in the Valley, But Not Willing to Sell
In the post-dot-com boom era, the mind-set among many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs is to position a start-up company for a quick and lucrative sale rather than wait for the uncertain payout of an initial offering. But the founders of Aruba Networks rejected that strategy when they turned away a chance at instant riches when Cisco Systems came calling.
 ''We basically told them, 'There's not a number you can come up with that will be attractive enough to convince us to sell,''' the chief executive, Don LeBeau, said. [Page C4.]

Court Hearings on Internet Access
In a case that could alter high-speed Internet access, the Supreme Court will hear arguments on Tuesday on whether cable companies should be required to lease their lines to rivals providing Internet service. [C8.]

Opening the African Continent
With the start of the Africa Channel later this year, entrepreneurs seasoned in African culture and history hope to demystify the continent for American viewers. [C10.]

Online Searchers for Job Seekers
Over the last year, more people have turned to sites like Shopping.com and Kayak.com to save them the hassle of clicking around to find travel or shopping bargains. Now a handful of new companies are lining up to provide similar services for job seekers. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C5.]

Is Silicon Valley Similar to Detroit?
Some in the technology industry are concerned that Silicon Valley is turning into Detroit. They believe that Silicon Valley is destined to see its stature erode, as new rivals undercut American companies on price and increasingly wrest the lead in innovation. Yet another view suggests that America's industry will not inevitably decline. Steve Lohr: New Economy. [C4.]

Start-Up Offers a Different Chip
Luxtera, a small start-up based on technology pioneered at the California Institute of Technology, plans to announce a new class of silicon chips that blur the line between electronic computing and optical communications. [C4.]

Looking for America's Sweetheart
Seventeen magazine and MTV will hook up this spring, collaborating on a reality show that tracks the magazine's search for what it calls ''America's Sweetheart.'' The series called Project Seventeen, will put finalists through challenges meant to reveal their character to the viewers. It will be broadcast on MTV next fall. Atoosa Rubenstein, editor in chief of Seventeen, said the competition looks for ''the good girl, the one with good grades who is logging in the hours studying, who is well rounded and has integrity.'' [C9.]

Trying to Make Cold Calling Easier
Jigsaw Data has collected business contacts that are contributed and vetted by its members, all in an effort to help salesman find the right person to call. [C9.]

More Advice for Banks in China
The China Banking Regulatory Commission said it had issued a 13-point circular to banks on how to control lending risks better. [C6.]

U.S. Financial Markets to Reopen
Financial markets in the United States, which were closed for Good Friday, will reopen today. Some European markets will be closed.


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,442.87 down 186.80Nasdaq composite -- 1,991.06 down 16.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.60% up 0.09The euro -- 1.2934 down 0.0377The dollar -- 106.33 yen up 1.65

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STARTUPS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); EMPLOYMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARUBA NETWORKS INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); KAYAK SOFTWARE CORP (55%); SEVENTEEN MAGAZINE (52%)

TICKER: ARUN (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); KYAK (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



597 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court to Hear Case On Cable's Regulatory Duties

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 27 

 BODY:
In a case that could alter the high-speed Internet access business, the Supreme Court will hear arguments Tuesday on whether cable companies should be required by regulation to lease their lines to competitors providing Internet service. 
 The case revolves around a ruling issued in 2002 by the Federal Communications Commission that the service provided by cable companies should be defined as an ''information service,'' and not a ''telecommunications service,'' which is the designation given to traditional telephone companies.
 Companies with the ''information service'' designation do not have to comply with regulations requiring them to lease lines to competitors, or meet certain service standards and state public utility requirements. 
 In October 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, responding to a lawsuit filed by an Internet service provider called Brand X, rejected that F.C.C. interpretation. The court, in upholding a lower court decision, found that cable providers cannot be relieved entirely of obligations placed on telecommunications services. 
 The cable industry and the Bush administration are appealing that decision. The case is at the heart of an evolving regulatory environment in which telecommunications providers, including traditional telephone and cable companies, are seeking greater freedom from government oversight. 
 That evolution has been applauded by the companies but criticized harshly by consumer groups, who argue that deregulation of telecommunications services would leave the public vulnerable. 
 Mark N. Cooper, research director for Consumer Federation, a group that has joined Brand X in the case, said cable companies, as dominant providers of high-speed Internet access, should be subject to the government oversight accorded to other services vital to the economy. 
 Mr. Cooper argued that without regulated competition, the means of transporting data and phone traffic would be controlled by a handful of major companies -- leading to less innovation and higher prices.
 About 29 million American homes have high-speed Internet access, with 18 million using cable modem service and 11 million using telephone digital subscriber lines, according to the Yankee Group, a market research firm.
 The cable companies argue that the appeals court should have given more deference to the F.C.C.'s ruling when deciding the case. 
 Legal specialists have said that the Supreme Court may choose not to decide whether the F.C.C. was correct in its interpretation of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. Rather, they said, the Supreme Court may send the case back to the appeals court with instructions to reconsider the case, providing guidance on how much deference the appeals court should give the commission's interpretation of the law.
 The case has major implications not just for cable companies, but also for telephone companies, which are hoping to be freed from regulation as they move to Internet-based phone services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MODEMS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%) Computers and the Internet; Television; Suits and Litigation; Renting and Leasing ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: YANKEE GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%) Supreme Court (US); Brand X Internet Services; Federal Communications Commission; Consumer Federation of America

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



598 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: City to Buy Diesel-Electric Buses, Not Natural Gas Ones 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
New York City Transit, which has been under pressure for years to reduce harmful emissions from its bus fleet, has decided to buy hybrid-electric buses instead of those that use compressed natural gas, a significant shift in its strategy for gradually replacing diesel fuels with cleaner ones. 
 The decision, to be presented for the first time tomorrow, suggests that the agency will no longer buy both types of clean-fuel vehicles and will focus entirely on the hybrids, which run on diesel and electricity. Hybrid buses began running as a pilot project in September 1998 and entered regular service in April 2004. So far, 325 hybrid buses, or 7 percent of the total fleet of 4,512, have been ordered. Now, the agency hopes to buy up to 500 more. 
 Officials have argued that the gas vehicles require expensive maintenance facilities and that the hybrid buses are just as clean. But the shift away from compressed natural gas could be controversial. In 1998, Gov. George E. Pataki promised to convert the huge Manhattanville Bus Depot into a compressed natural gas center, a decision supported by West Harlem residents who believed that diesel bus depots had contributed to high rates of childhood asthma, other respiratory ailments and cancer.
 Five of the six active Manhattan bus depots are north of 96th Street. In 2000, a local advocacy group, West Harlem Environmental Action, filed a civil rights complaint with the United States Department of Transportation, arguing that the disproportionate concentration of depots amounted to discrimination and environmental racism. 
 This month, the department, which has jurisdiction because the transit agency gets federal grants, formally closed the case, saying that it had not found evidence of discrimination. But it upheld some of the environmental group's concerns, said Peggy M. Shepard, the organization's executive director. 
 In an interview yesterday, Ms. Shepard said the group was still negotiating with the transit agency over greater environmental controls at the five depots and participation by community representatives who live near them.
 Transit officials first hinted last year that they might renege on the 1998 pledge, saying that cleaner diesel technologies had made the $50 million conversion unnecessary. The agency has two compressed natural gas depots: the Jackie Gleason Depot in Brooklyn and the West Farms Depot in the Bronx. 
 Ms. Shepard did not directly criticize the proposal to stop buying compressed natural gas buses. ''We do understand that C.N.G. and hybrid diesel buses are measuring about the same level in terms of emissions,'' she said. ''But without an agreement in place on a variety of environmental measures that we want them to implement in Harlem, I cannot say we are not opposed.''
 A transit agency spokesman, Paul J. Fleuranges, said he could not discuss the matter until the proposal was presented tomorrow to the New York City Transit committee of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's board. The board is scheduled to vote on the matter at its monthly meeting on Thursday.
 Ms. Shepard added that she was surprised to learn that the board might vote on the proposal so soon. ''We had no way of knowing that they were moving ahead with it this week,'' she said. ''My concern is that they have not gone to the community at large to tell them anything about this.''
 A summary of the proposal, which a board member provided to The New York Times, details New York City Transit's intention to reallocate money that had been budgeted for 120 compressed natural gas buses and 55 extra-long diesel buses. The money would instead be used for 100 hybrid-electric buses, with an option to buy 400 more in the future, and 20 extra-long hybrids. 
 New York City Transit's clean fuel bus program, begun in June 2000, has relied on both gas and hybrid buses, but the gas buses require special facilities and equipment -- like compressors, maintenance bays and fueling stations -- that are expensive to build and maintain. 
 Compared with the compressed natural gas buses, the hybrids have better fuel economy and equal or lower emissions, the agency's chief maintenance officer for buses, John P. Walsh, said in a recent interview.
 The buses, which have rear diesel engines as well as lead-acid batteries mounted on the roof, cost $125,000 to $200,000 more than regular diesel buses, but are expected to make up for the added expense through savings on fuel, he said. He added that the buses were quiet and easy to operate and braked smoothly. 
 Of the 325 hybrid buses that have been ordered, 65 are at the Mother Clara Hale Depot, also in Harlem; 60 are at a depot in Middle Village, Queens; 135 will be assigned to a depot in Fresh Pond, Queens; and 65 will be assigned to the Manhattanville depot, which is on West 133rd Street between Broadway and the Henry Hudson Parkway.
 In addition to buying clean-fuel buses, the agency started using ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel on its entire diesel fleet in September 2000. By the end of this year, it plans to retire two-stroke diesel engines, which produce some of the highest levels of pollution, and to retrofit all diesel buses with particulate filters, which trap the minute fragments of soot that have been linked to respiratory and other illnesses.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Boarding a hybrid bus, which uses diesel and electricity. The city has been splitting its clean-air purchases with both hybrid and natural-gas buses. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (91%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (77%); JURISDICTION (71%); ASTHMA (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); RACE & RACISM (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



599 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: So far, there's a truce between the big job search boards and new employment sites that scan the big boards' listings.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
OVER the last year, more people have turned to sites like Shopping.com and Kayak.com to avoid the hassle of clicking around to find travel or shopping bargains. Now a handful of new companies are lining up to provide similar services for job seekers. 
 While the big search engines refine their more generalized search approach, companies like Indeed.com, SimplyHired.com and WorkZoo have in recent weeks introduced services that scan both well-known and obscure employment boards on the job seeker's behalf. In doing so, these companies may earn praise from Internet users, analysts said, even if Monster, CareerBuilder and Yahoo's HotJobs cannot determine if they are friends or foes. 
 ''If you're Monster, you're saying 'Gee, what's my value proposition?''' said Charlene Li, an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. ''Will all the traffic go to Monster or Indeed?'' 
 In the short term, the big job sites seem willing to let the search sites scan their listings and send them customers -- unlike sites in the travel category. Many online travel agencies have refused to let Kayak, Mobissimo and Farechase from Yahoo conduct similar searches.
 On Monday, Indeed.com will announce its official debut after several months of testing. The company, based in Stamford, Conn., said there would be more than 2.5 million jobs in its database on a typical day, from more than 500 sites. 
 On Indeed.com's home page, visitors are greeted with a simple search box that prompts them to type in the title or description of the job they are interested in (or the specific company), and a location. A search last week for ''marketing analyst'' and ''Chicago,'' for instance, produced a list of 772 job listings culled from Monster, CareerBuilder, HotJobs and America's Job Bank (Jobsearch.org), among others. Adding a search term, ''production planning analyst,'' narrowed the list to eight.
 Paul Forster, Indeed's chief executive, said that the Web site, which has been running in test mode for a few months, is on pace to attract a million job searches this month without any marketing. 
 Mr. Forster and his co-founder, Rony Kahan, previously ran a financial jobs site, JobsInTheMoney.com, which they sold in late 2003 to Financial News, an investment news publisher. ''From that, we realized the drawbacks of job boards,'' Mr. Forster said. ''There was an obvious gap for a search engine that enables seekers to search multiple sites.''
 That gap has always existed, of course -- as have companies that have tried to fill it. FlipDog.com, for instance, started in early 2000 with technology that searched employer Web sites for listings, thereby helping job seekers circumvent the big boards. According to Forrester Research, those big boards together cover 71 percent of all listings.
 Monster bought FlipDog in 2001 for an undisclosed sum, in a move that Ms. Li of Forrester characterized as ''getting rid of the competition.'' She said that FlipDog, which is still in operation, would have struggled as an independent business because ''the advertising model wasn't there.''
 The difference now, Ms. Li said, is Google. Through the company's AdSense network, Google places ads on Web site publishers' pages, and pays the publisher each time someone clicks on the ad. ''When someone searches for a Java programming job, there are advertisers who want to sell stuff specifically to Java programmers,'' she said. 
 Google presumably loves the fact that the job search engines are supporting its AdSense business, but not at the expense of its primary mission of attracting search users to its site. Eileen Rodriguez, a Google spokeswoman, would not say whether the company was developing a competing job search service along the lines of its Froogle shopping search service.
 Yahoo is in a particularly interesting position in this regard. As a search engine it, too, would be expected to directly compete with the job search companies. But such a service could point users to listings on sites other than its own HotJobs.
 Dan Finnigan, executive vice president and general manager of Yahoo HotJobs, would not comment on the possibility of Yahoo developing a competing job search service. But he said that if it did start a service that essentially funneled users to sites other than HotJobs, such an effort would not necessarily run counter to Yahoo's overall business approach. He pointed out that Yahoo already displays ads from the other major job boards near Yahoo.com's search results.
 ''It's easy to start one of these search engines,'' Mr. Finnigan said. ''But it's very difficult to do one that meets the user's expectations. To satisfy that audience, you have to be very sophisticated in providing relevant results. The billions we've invested in search gives us a head start in figuring out what will make a searcher happy.'' 
 If the job boards so chose, they could make life more difficult for the job search engines by thwarting the engines' attempts to cull job postings. So far, though, the job boards appear willing to accept the free referrals.
 Gautam Godhwani, chief executive of SimplyHired.com, which is based in Mountain View, Calif., said that if a job board refused to be included in his site's listings, it would simply lose that traffic. ''To the extent these guys can help us get their results into our database, it means more traffic to them,'' he said.
 CareerBuilder, for one, appears willing to buy his argument. Jennifer Sullivan, a CareerBuilder spokeswoman, said the company already distributed its listings on more than 450 other Web sites, and saw the new companies ''as additional distribution channels.''
 For the job search sites to succeed with advertisers, though, they must generate significantly more traffic than they do now. WorkZoo, SimplyHired and Indeed executives all spoke in vague terms about teaming with major online companies in the coming weeks and months to generate more awareness for their services.
 Mr. Godhwani, who introduced SimplyHired earlier this month, said his company could eventually start charging for ''premium'' services like matching companies with specific job candidates. Currently the company is, as its founders described it, ''self-funded.'' (Mr. Godhwani and his brother Anil sold AtWeb, a vendor of software that helped Web sites improve their services, to Netscape in 1998.)
 Employment search sites seem seems well positioned to gain the attention of investors. According to Ms. Li, the online job search category grew 35 percent last year, compared to annual growth of just 8 percent in 2003. Monster.com's United States revenues reached about $450 million last year, she said, while CareerBuilder and HotJobs reached $250 million and $125 million, respectively.
 ''The key thing is that with the recovery, people are hiring again,'' Ms. Li said. ''So everybody's coming back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Forster, a founder of Indeed.com, says his job search site has done no marketing but will attract a million searches this month. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WEB SITES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); TRAVEL AGENTS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Labor; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: KAYAK SOFTWARE CORP (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Indeed.com; SimplyHired.com; WorkZoo

TICKER: KYAK (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005



600 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Famous, Admired And (Finally) Welcome; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: In Queens, Black Notables Stepped Into the Middle Class

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It was once the black Beverly Hills, and those clueless about the star-studded history of East Elmhurst and Corona in Queens should ask Lula Jones to acquaint them with some of her onetime neighbors.
 ''Ella Fitzgerald married Ray Brown and lived on Ditmars Boulevard for six years,'' Mrs. Jones said, gesturing toward a spot just two blocks but a half century away. ''Bill Kenny of the Ink Spots lived here on the corner of 31st Avenue and Ditmars. Willie Mays lived on Ditmars as you go down the hill at 29th Avenue, the big house on your right. He didn't live there long, but his wife, Marghuerite, lived there until she died. Belafonte bought his first house from my stepfather in the early 1950's. And Sidney Poitier, he bought a house. And Louis Armstrong, of course. Louis and Lucille were like my undocumented godparents.'' 
 The patch of New York City that is so dense with memories for Mrs. Jones, a 71-year-old former businesswoman who has lived in the neighborhood since she was 11, is a spread of terra cotta-roofed stucco houses and more workaday brick homes just south of La Guardia Airport. For decades after the early 1940's it was an oasis of relative black privilege that included police officers and schoolteachers as well as entertainers. They moved to East Elmhurst and Corona because it was one of the few neighborhoods in the New York City area where blacks could buy homes.
 ''You could have all the money in the world, but you couldn't move in,'' is the way Mrs. Jones describes the segregated neighborhoods and towns of that era.
 The residents succeeded, battling inequities in housing and schooling, electing black representatives, sending children off to college. 
 Now, a good deal older, they are realizing that so many more jobs and locales are open to blacks that their children have no need to settle in East Elmhurst.
 Their enclave has become increasingly Latino, with Dominicans and other immigrants fresh to the middle class buying houses where black residents have died or retired. The proportion of blacks in the entire East Elmhurst-north Corona area declined to 28 percent in 2000 from 52 percent in 1980, according to Susan Weber-Stoger, a researcher at Queens College. In the East Elmhurst 11369 ZIP code, almost 50 percent of the 36,000 residents were born abroad.
 The transformation may explain efforts to memorialize what the neighborhood accomplished and the notables who gave it its luster. City Councilman Hiram Monserrate, Democrat of Queens, is nursing legislation to rename 97th Street between 23d and 24th Avenues as Malcolm X Place in honor of the black nationalist leader who lived in a now-peppermint-green stucco. Other notables include Tommy Agee, the Mets outfielder; Ray Felix, the Knicks basketball star; and the jazz greats Dizzy Gillespie, Cannonball and Nat Adderley, Clark Terry, and Jimmy Heath, the saxophonist who still lives in the Dorrie Miller co-ops in north Corona.
 Mr. Heath and Harry Belafonte, both 78, said in interviews that they settled in the area to avoid the clamor and congestion of places like Harlem and to raise their children among trees and respectable schools. 
 ''There was something to suggest that your life was in motion, both as an artist and as a person of color,'' said Mr. Belafonte, who at the start of his calypso career lived with his family in an attached house on 25th Avenue. 
 Residents described an almost rustic rhythm to life, with celebrities gardening in their backyards and fretting about schools like everyone else. Sunday morning meant church followed by brunch at the Red Wagon Diner, now the Buccaneer, on 94th Street. Mrs. Jones's mother, Rosetta Williams, a striking singer and dancer, played pinochle with Ella Fitzgerald well into the night. Dizzy Gillespie frolicked with a football on his block while Armstrong would lounge on his stoop, showing youngsters how to finger the valves on a trumpet while his wife, Lucille, dished up ice cream for them.
 ''We view these artists as icons of American culture, but back in those decades they were aspiring to good middle-class existence,'' said Michael Cogswell, director of the Louis Armstrong House and Archives.
 Frank Silvera Jr., the son of a black character actor who portrayed Mexicans and Italians in movies like ''Viva Zapata,'' recalled playing games of skelly -- a street game often played with bottle caps -- and stickball, chasing snakes and rabbits near Grand Central Parkway and watching planes take off from La Guardia. 
 ''If you got in trouble, by the time you'd come home, it got back to your mom,'' said Mr. Silvera, 60, who lives in East Elmhurst with his mother.
 North Corona, where the houses are more modest, had a nucleus of black residents -- railroad porters and dressmakers -- in the early 1900's. Migration from Harlem's tenements and the Caribbean expanded the community and growth accelerated after World War II with refugees from the collapsing agrarian economy of the South. 
 White resistance was tempered by the relative prosperity of black newcomers and by the ethnic diversity of whites, according to Steven Gregory, who wrote ''Black Corona: Race and the Politics of Place in an Urban Community.'' 
 Corona and later East Elmhurst developed a genteel bourgeoisie and a strong network of churches and fraternal organizations like the Knights of Pythias. There were tennis and riding clubs and Boy Scout troops. Black families lived alongside white families, a situation that assured better schools and garbage collection, and meant, Mr. Belafonte said, that a visit by friends of a different race was not an occasion for intense curiosity.
 Neighborhood blacks pressed for jobs at the nearby 1939 and 1964 World's Fairs and at La Guardia Airport, and their higher incomes, as well as efforts by Mrs. Jones's stepfather, Walter Reifer, a real estate broker who broke the color bar in East Elmhurst. Ditmars Boulevard soon became known as the ''black gold coast.'' 
 In 1943 Lucille Armstrong bought and decorated a plain brick house in an integrated quarter of Corona while her husband was on the road. Armstrong pulled up in a cab and stayed for the rest of his life, even though he could have purchased something more palatial. The house, now a national museum, is frozen in time with the furnishings Lucille owned when she died in 1983 -- a glass chandelier, Chinese prints, blue lacquered kitchen cabinets, and Satchmo's reel-to-reel tape recorder. Armstrong's barber, Joseph B. Gibson, now 77 and still cutting hair in the same timeworn Joe's Artistic Barber Shop on 106th Street, remembered how on warm days Armstrong would wait outside on a vinyl-covered stool for a $1.25 haircut.
 ''He would sit by the window greeting people and he wouldn't infringe on anybody's turn,'' Mr. Gibson said.
 During the 1960's, residents like Helen M. Marshall, now the Queens borough president, led the battle for integrating and improving schools and helped create the Langston Hughes Community Library, a repository of 45,000 books and videos on black heritage. The activism was heady.
 ''You could sit and talk with someone who was a Black Panther one minute and turn around and talk to a black Muslim the next or someone who was active in the church,'' said Andrew P. Jackson, the library's director.
 Now more residents are Latinos, people like Jose L. de Jesus, a 40-year-old Dominican-born truck driver who bought his house in 1997 for the same reasons as his black neighbors. ''You don't see a lot of people hanging out on the streets,'' was one reason he gave.
 Mrs. Jones, however, mourns the loss of the neighborhood's closeness. 
 ''It does sadden me that you don't have that homogeneous feeling you had at one time,'' she said. ''But I have to be honest with you, maybe I haven't put forth that much effort.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption yesterday about the East Elmhurst-Corona neighborhood of Queens, once home to many black Americans who became notable, misspelled the given name of the Mets outfielder who lived there. He was Tommie Agee, not Tommy. A credit was omitted with a photograph of another former resident, Louis Armstrong. It was by Herman Leonard Photography.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOUIS ARMSTRONG
TOMMY AGEE
HARRY BELAFONTE
ELLA FITZGERALD
MALCOLM X
WILLIE MAYS
Lula Jones in front of her home on Curtis Street in East Elmhurst, Queens. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 The saxophonist Jimmy Heath in his co-op apartment on 34th Avenue in the northern part of Corona. Many jazz stars once lived nearby. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ATHLETES (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); STEPPARENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005

 
